{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red41\green48\blue59;\red68\green68\blue68;\red35\green31\blue32;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720

\f0\fs18 \cf0 Coal, Crude Oil and Natural Gas are Agents of Resolutional Action \'96 \
And The Role of Your Ballot is to 
\i Resolve Your Expectation Toward 
\i0 these
\i  Resolutional Agents. 
\i0 \
\
Page 1, Fossilized Agencies\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa200
\cf0 \
Eugene Thacker is moved to remark: \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa240
\cf0 Thacker 2k12. (Eugene Thacker, PhD, Program in Comparative Literature, Rutgers University, Associate Professor of Media Studies at The New School, Thacker also serves on the editorial boards for Ctheory, MIT Press, and Punctum Books. Thacker has lectured at Ars Electronica, DEAF, EMAF, the University of Basel, UC-Berkeley, the University of Chicago, and the University of Naples.  \'93Black Infinity; or, Oil Discovers Humans,\'94 in Leper Creativity: Cyclonopedia Symposium, Pages 176-177, 2012. [GENDER MODIFIED] (cfitz/jpmiller])\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0  \'93[We] hadn\'92t discovered\'85 and reproduce itself.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf2 Evan Eisenberg describes Status Quo Expectations as \'93A Kind of\'85make the machines\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 Eisenberg 2k10. (Evan Eisenberg, studied philosophy and classics at Harvard and Princeton and biology at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, music columnist for 
\i The Nation,
\i0  a synagogue cantor, and a gardener for the New York City parks department. \'93Night of the Living Dead,\'94 
\i Aivakhiv
\i0 , University of Vermont, 5-29-2010.) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa240
\cf0 Energy production practices emerge in alliance with the agency of fossil fuels\
Eisenberg Continues in 2k10. (Evan Eisenberg, studied philosophy and classics at Harvard and Princeton and biology at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, music columnist for 
\i The Nation,
\i0  a synagogue cantor, and a gardener for the New York City parks department. \'93Night of the Living Dead,\'94 
\i Aivakhiv
\i0 , University of Vermont, 5-29-2010.) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 Half a million.. coal, and oil.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa240
\cf0 Perceive Fossil Fuels As More Than Dead Matter - \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 How Should we Respond?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa240

\i \cf0 Re-Partition the Sensible
\i0  - Or The Habits of Perception Limiting Debate\'92s Responsiveness To Energies\'92 Agency -By 
\i Resolving
\i0  Coal, Crude Oil, and Natural Gas Into Material Agents of the Resolution.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 The OED defines Resolved as: 
\i \'93trans.
\i0 \'a0\'a0a.\'a0(a) To reduce (a\'85 divisible or analysable\'a0into.\'94 [OED \'93Resolved]\
The United States Federal Government Should Substantially Increase Financial Incentives for Energy Production in the United States of Coal, Crude Oil and Natural Gas.\
\
The History Of Word \'93Should\'94 Demonstrates A Thresh-Hold Between  Guilt, Uncertainty, And Complacent Expectation.\
Should\'92s Oldest Root Trace Back To \'93(S)Kell\'94 Meaning Guilt Or Debt. \
And Yet It Can Also Mean \
4.\'a0Indicating what is\'85\'91am to\'92, etc.\'a0
\i Obs. 
\i0 [OED \'93Shall\'94 4]\
Should Flows Between \'93The Past Tense Of Shall\'94 And The Subjunctive. \
It Evokes What Is Both Certain And In Doubt, Past And Future. \
It\'92s Meaning Moves Depending On Emotional Inflection. \
These Tensions Are Reflected In The OED:\
. [OED \'93Shall: The Past Tense Should with modal function.\'94]\
[OED \'93Shall 8h\'94]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 Voting Affirmative Resolves Your Expectation of Increased Incentives for Fossil Fuel Agents, Such as Those Described by Gomez in 2k12. (Lucrecia Gomez, Research Manager, Frost & Sullivan, Energy & Power Systems, \'93Mega Trends in Power Generation,\'94 Power Engineering, Volume 116, Issue 9, Features, 9/1/12, Print. [NKE]) \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf3 There is a\'85 the next decade.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf4 Imagining Fossil Fuels As Agents Fractures Our Habits Of Political Perception That Oppose Sovereign Human Subjects to Passive Energy Resources. \
Kathyrn Yusoff writes in 2010\
\'93[W]e must attend\'85\cf2  from the world.\
The Distribution Of The Sensible Means The PERCEPTUAL IS POLITICAL\'97 Fossil Fuels Are Agents \'96Swarms Of More Than Human Actors. Passive Framings Of Energy Sources Imagine\
A World Of Dead Matter \'96 A World Without Meaning \'96 \
A World Unworthy of Saving. \
Challenging Status Quo Restrictions on Perception is Key to Meaningful Engagement with Ecological Assemblages. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 Yusoff Continues in 2k10. (Kathryn Yusoff Lecturer in Human (and Non-human) Geography, and Director of the MA in Climate Change at the University of Exeter. 
\i Theory Culture Society
\i0  27.2-3, 2010 [\cf2 This evidence is vision-centric modified.] [J.Miller]\cf0 )\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720

\i \cf4 The implications of\'85 its dark secret.
\i0 \cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa240
\cf0 Page 2, Disenchanted Energy Publics Are Doomed To Die. \
\
But Fossils Never Die. They Persist.\
Hlibchuk 2k6. (Geoffrey Hlibchuk, SUNY Buffalo, \'93"The Immense Odds Against the Fossil\'92s Occurrence": The Poetry of Christopher Dewdney as Materialist Historiography\'94 Studies in Canadian Literature / \'c9tudes en litt\'e9rature canadienne 31.2 2006 [GENDER MODIFIED])  \'93 [T]races of the\'85 life and death\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 \'93[T]he Ultimate Origins\'94 of Fossil Fuels Are the \'93expression of oil\'92s own desire.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf2 The Geology of History Traces Coal, Oil, and Natural Gas To:\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa240
\cf0 Bratton 2k12. (Benjamin H. Bratton; Associate Professor of Visual Arts at the University of California, San Diego, and the Director of The Center for Design and Geopolitics at CALIT2, Bratton taught theory and design for a decade at SCIArc (The Southern California Institute of Architecture) where is now Visiting Faculty, and from 2003-08 in the UCLA Department of Design|Media Arts; has been an visiting lecturer and critic at Columbia, Pratt, Yale, Architectural Association of London, Penn, USC, UCLA, Art Center College of Design, Michigan, Brown, the University of Applied Arts in Vienna, Bauhaus-University, Moscow State, among others. He was also co-chair of ambient:interface, the 54th (and final) International Design Conference in Aspen. \'93Root the Earth: On Peak Oil Apophenia\'94. Leper Creativity: Cyclonopedia Symposium. Pages 48-52. 2012 (cfitz/jpmiller]) "[A] totality of\'85 hydrocarbon corpse juice.\'94Disenchantment Perceptually Evacuates the World\'92s Possibility\
And Habits of Indifference Breed Interpassivity As the Horrors of Ecological Violence Become Banal\
Robust Politics Require Resistance to Perceptual Cynicism of Energy Publics\'96 \cf2 Not a Moral Code \cf0 \
Trachtenberg 2k7. (Zev\kerning1\expnd7\expndtw35
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 M.\kerning1\expnd3\expndtw15
 \kerning1\expnd-3\expndtw-13
T\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 rachtenberg, Professor at the 
\i University\kerning1\expnd3\expndtw18
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 of\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Oklahoma
\i0 , \kerning1\expnd2\expndtw12
\'93Book Review
\i \kerning1\expnd2\expndtw12
\'94
\i0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  of \'93Hawkins,\kerning1\expnd7\expndtw36
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Ga\kerning1\expnd-3\expndtw-12
y\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 .\kerning1\expnd2\expndtw10
 
\i \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 The\kerning1\expnd2\expndtw12
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Ethics\kerning1\expnd4\expndtw20
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 of\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
 \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-5
W\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 aste:\kerning1\expnd4\expndtw21
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 How\kerning1\expnd1\expndtw7
 \kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-3
W\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 e\kerning1\expnd4\expndtw23
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Relate\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw25
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 to\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw2
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Rubbish.
\i0  Lanham,\kerning1\expnd2\expndtw11
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 MD:\kerning1\expnd2\expndtw13
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Rowman\kerning1\expnd8\expndtw42
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 &\kerning1\expnd1\expndtw8
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Littlefield, 2006.\kerning1\expnd5\expndtw26
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Pp.\kerning1\expnd6\expndtw33
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 xii\kerning1\expnd-1\expndtw-1
+\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 154.\kerning1\expnd2\expndtw12
\'94 
\i \kerning1\expnd2\expndtw12
Ethics,
\i0 \kerning1\expnd2\expndtw12
 April 2007, [jpm])"\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 A\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw1
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 provocation\kerning1\expnd1\expndtw9
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 in\'85 the \kerning1\expnd1\expndtw6
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 relevant \kerning1\expnd3\expndtw17
 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 activities.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0 Responding to Ecological Agents Requires New Perceptual Economies.Status Quo Domestications of Ecological Sensibility Render New Ecological Economies Impossible. Repetitive Visions of Abstract Loss Make Even Our Own Extinction Banal \
Yusoff 2k10 (Kathryn Yusoff Lecturer in Human (and Non-human) Geography, and Director of the MA in Climate Change at the University of Exeter. 
\i Theory Culture Society
\i0  27.2-3, 2010)\
If, as Haraway\'85 engagement with animality.\
Status Quo Energy Debates Alienate Political Participation\
Challenging the Perceptual Myths of the \'91Moral Subject\'92 is Key to Energize Political Praxis. \
Bennett and Kahn 2k10. (Gulshan Khan and Jane Bennett, Chair of Political Science Department at Johns Hopkins University. \'93Agency, Nature and Emergent Properties,\'94 Para Doxa, 
\i Neodoxa
\i0 , Interview Conducted on November 3, 2010; Posted Online on 6-25-2012.)\
 KHAN: In The\'85 the \'91moral subject\'92.\
Distributive Agency is Practical Politics 
\i \cf2 \

\i0 \cf0 Voting Affirmative Is ACTION-ORIENTED PERCEPTION \'96 \
Policies are Not Simply Chosen, But Are Responses to Agential Harms. Assembling Perceptual Agency Spills-Over Into Pragmatic Energy Publics. \
Bennett 2k10. (Jane Bennett, Chair of Political Science Department at Johns Hopkins University. 
\i Vibrant Matter: A Political Ecology Of Things
\i0 , July 3, 2010. Print.)\
The Public and\'85solution to them.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf2 \
}