{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Fossil fuels are the REAL AGENTS of the topic, and the role of your ballot is to attend to these resolutional actants\'97Resolving this expectation ruptures the distribution of the sensible between lively active subjects and dead passive resources.\
\
Part 1, Archives of the Un-Thought We Begin with An Excerpt from Anne Herbert: [Anne Herbert, UC Berkeley "Handy Tips on How to Behave at the Death of the World,\'94 Whole Earth Review, 1995, [JPMiller]) Sometimes it comes And shall we live?\
\
Kathryn Yusoff Urges us to: Yusoff 2k10. (Kathryn Yusoff Lecturer in Human (and Non-human) Geography, and Director of the MA in Climate Change at the University of Exeter. //Theory Culture Society// 27.2-3, 2010) we might spend and exuberant or both).\
\
What Follows is the Tale of the World\'92s Fossilization: We are Both Criminals and Corpses, Judges and the Jury. In the Timely Genre of Fossil Fueled Horrors Carbon Crises Become Eisenberg  2k10. (Evan Eisenberg, studied philosophy and classics at Harvard and Princeton and biology at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, music columnist for //The Nation,// a synagogue cantor, and a gardener for the New York City parks department. \'93Night of the Living Dead,\'94 //Aivakhiv//, University of Vermont, 5-29-2010.) \'93An oil spill And make the machines.\
\
The Geology of History Reveals Oil, Coal, and Natural Gas As:  Bratton 2k12.** **(Benjamin H. Bratton; Associate Professor of Visual Arts at the University of California, San Diego, and the Director of The Center for Design and Geopolitics at CALIT2, Bratton taught theory and design for a decade at SCIArc (The Southern California Institute of Architecture) where is now Visiting Faculty, and from 2003-08 in the UCLA Department of Design|Media Arts; has been an visiting lecturer and critic at Columbia, Pratt, Yale, Architectural Association of London, Penn, USC, UCLA, Art Center College of Design, Michigan, Brown, the University of Applied Arts in Vienna, Bauhaus-University, Moscow State, among others. He was also co-chair of ambient:interface, the 54th (and final) International Design Conference in Aspen. \'93Root the Earth: On Peak Oil Apophenia\'94. //Leper Creativity: Cyclonopedia Symposium.// Pages 48-52. 2012 (cfitz/jpmiller]) a totality of and Oil is Meat\
\
The Resolution Beckons Humanity to Sacrifice the Seemingly Inert Substances of Oil, Coal, and Natural Gas. Yet We Pause to Reflect on the Ways that: Thacker 2k12. (Eugene Thacker, PhD, Program in Comparative Literature, Rutgers University, Associate Professor of Media Studies at The New School, Thacker also serves on the editorial boards for //Ctheory, MIT Press//, and //Punctum// //Books//. Thacker has lectured at Ars Electronica, DEAF, EMAF, Humbolt Universit\'e4t-Berlin, the Intermediae-Matadero, Southern California Institute of Architecture, the University of Basel, UC-Berkeley, the University of Chicago, and the University of Naples.  \'93Black Infinity; or, Oil Discovers Humans,\'94 in //Leper// //Creativity: Cyclonopedia Symposium, //Pages 176-177, 2012. (cfitz/jpmiller]) Man hadn\'92t discovered And And reproduce itself\
\
Evan Eisenberg Describes Humanity\'92s Parasitic Reliance upon Fossils as the Very Basis of our Species\'92 Evolution: Eisenberg  2k10. (Evan Eisenberg, studied philosophy and classics at Harvard and Princeton and biology at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, music columnist for //The Nation,// a synagogue cantor, and a gardener for the New York City parks department. \'93Night of the Living Dead,\'94 //Aivakhiv//, University of Vermont, 5-29-2010.) Half a million And Coal, and oil\
\
Part 2, Dying to Live: The Fossilized Remains of Past Catastrophes Are Not Mere Archives of Loss. Fossils Do not Die, but Live On As: Sacred Emissaries Hlibchuk 2k6. (Geoffrey Hlibchuk, SUNY Buffalo, \'93"The Immense Odds Against the Fossil\'92s Occurrence": The Poetry of Christopher Dewdney as Materialist Historiography\'94 Studies in Canadian Literature / \'c9tudes en litt\'e9rature canadienne 31.2 2006 [GENDER MODIFIED]) traces of the And life and death\'94\
\
Turner 2k9. (Frederick Turner, B.Litt, English Language and Literature, Oxford University, M.A., English Language and Literature, Oxford University, B.A., English Language and Literature, Oxford University; internationally known poet, lecturer, and scholar, and Founders Professor of Arts and Humanities at the University of Texas at Dallas. \'93Transcending Biological and Social Reductionism,\'94 //Mark My Words//, February 26, 2009, Online. [jpmiller]) In this denser And In free fall\
\
 In the Sacrifice of the Fossil Levi Bryant Urges Us to Ask: Bryant 2k11. (Levi Bryant, Professor of Philosophy at Collins College. \'93Living from Death: On Eating,\'94 //Larval Subjects//, October 18, 2012, Online. [jpmiller]) The question then And up with death. \
\
How Should We Act If Death is a Condition For Life\'92s Emergence? Bryant Argues: Bryant 2k11. (Levi Bryant, Professor of Philosophy at Collins College. \'93Living from Death: On Eating,\'94 //Larval Subjects//, October 18, 2012, Online. [JPMiller]) Perhaps we could And which we live\
\
In Taking the Deadly Foundations of Life Seriously: Bryant 2k11. (Levi Bryant, Professor of Philosophy at Collins College. \'93Living from Death: On Eating,\'94 //Larval Subjects//, October 18, 2012, Online. [JPMiller]) we thus realize And Up with others.\
\
Bryant Continues in 2k12. Bryant 2k11. (Levi Bryant, Professor of Philosophy at Collins College. \'93Living from Death: On Eating,\'94 //Larval Subjects//, October 18, 2012, Online. [JPMiller])In the open And Which we live.\
\
\'93The implications of this thinking" Are That We Cannot Merely Archive Death as a Response to Our Resolutional Debt. Kathryn Yusoff Argues: Yusoff 2k10. (Kathryn Yusoff Lecturer in Human (and Non-human) Geography, and Director of the MA in Climate Change at the University of Exeter. //Theory Culture Society// 27.2-3, 2010) we must attend And Visible and invisible  Yusoff Continues in 2k10 What is at And Its dark secret\
\
Part 3, Fossil Futures [OED \'93Resolved\'94]   The United States Federal Government Should Substantially Reduce Restrictions On Energy Production for Coal, Oil and Natural Gas in the United States. (Harvard Round 5) The history of word \'93should\'94 demonstrates a thresh-hold between guilt, uncertainty, and complacent expectation. Should\'92s oldest root trace back to \'93(s)kell\'94 meaning guilt or debt. And yet it can also mean\'94 [OED \'93Shall\'94 4] 4. Indicating what is And  \'91am to\'92, etc. //Obs. //Should flows between \'93the past tense of shall\'94 and the subjunctive. It evokes what is both certain and in doubt, past and future. Its Meaning Moves Depending on Emotional Inflection. \
\
These tensions are reflected in the OED:  [OED \'93Shall: The Past Tense //Should// with modal function.\'94] 18. a. In statements of And regarded as real). Is the resolution an obligation or debt? Perhaps Should invokes \'93the object of a promise, or of an expectation accompanied by hope or fear.\'94 [OED \'93Shall 8h\'94] \
\
Thus voting affirmative requires resolving your expectation to an increase incentives for fossil fuel energy production. For example Gomez 2k12. (Lucrecia Gomez, Research Manager, Frost & Sullivan Energy & Power Systems // //\'93Mega Trends in Power Generation,\'94 //Power Engineering, //Volume 116, Issue 9, Features, 9/1/12, Print. [NKE])  Natural Gas is And The Next Decade\
\
Hold Energy Policymaking to Account for its Foundational \'93Indebtedness\'94 and Expected Reliance Upon Living Fossil Actants. Barad 2k11. (Karen Barad, Nature's Queer Performativity,\'94 //Qui Parle: Critical Humanities and Social Sciences,// Volume 19, Number, 2, Spring/Summer 2011, pp. 121-158, [jpMiller]) \'93Our debt to And Who we are.\
\
 The Resolution\'92s Hlibchuk 2k6. (Geoffrey Hlibchuk, SUNY Buffalo, \'93"The Immense Odds Against the Fossil\'92s Occurrence": The Poetry of Christopher Dewdney as Materialist Historiography\'94 Studies in Canadian Literature / \'c9tudes en litt\'e9rature canadienne 31.2 2006 [GENDER MODIFIED]) dead phrases are And Fossil reconfigures itself.\
\
Cultivate an Ethics of Entanglement as a Response to Our Resolutional Obligation. Barad 2k11. (Karen Barad, Nature's Queer Performativity,\'94 Qui Parle: Critical Humanities and Social Sciences, Volume 19, Number, 2, Spring/Summer 2011, pp. 121-158, [jpMiller]) Entanglements are not And Connections and commitments\
\
Energy Production Policies emerge through assemblages of humans and fossil actants\'97Reworking the present requires negotiating with these so-called resources as agents rather than Dead, Inert Substances. Bennett and Kahn 2k10. (Jane Bennett, Chair of Political Science Department at Johns Hopkins University and Gulshan Khan. \'93Agency, Nature and Emergent Properties,\'94 Para Doxa, //Neodoxa//, Interview Conducted on November 3, 2010; Posted Online on 6-25-2012.) KHAN: In The And The \'91moral subject\'92.\
\
Energy policy-making is an impossible muddle unless we move from fossil fuels as \'93resources\'94 to active agents unfolding our common world. Bryant 2k11. (Levi Bryant.Professor of Philosophy at Collins College. //The Materialism of Onticology. //2011.) In the opening And or realism make.\
\
Voting affirmative attends to the banal ecological violence entailed by the current distribution of the sensible\'97A necessary first step to forging new political economies Yusoff 2k10 (Kathryn Yusoff Lecturer in Human (and Non-human) Geography, and Director of the MA in Climate Change at the University of Exeter. //Theory Culture Society// 27.2-3, 2010)   "If, as Haraway And "engagement with animality." (Harvard Round 7) The United States Federal Government Should Substantially Increase Incentives for Coal, Oil and Natural Gas in the United States.}