<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: line-through;">IF THIS DOESNT MAKE SENSE ITS YOUR OWN DAMN FAULT!!!</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">SQUO</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Evacuations are happening now but don’t help the transportation disadvantaged. Agencies, states, and areas affected by Katrina lack mass transit evacuation plans.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Renne et al 11-</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute</span> <span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(John L. Renne, Thomas W. Sanchez and Todd Litman Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning : A Literature Review //Journal of Planning Literature// 2011 26: 420 originally published online 10 October 2011 Pg 428-429 accessed 12/7/12)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">An example of successful plans for carless evacuation is an initiative</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">and</span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the evacuation of lowmobility and special needs populations</span>__**


**<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Disads are nonunique-spending for Sandy should have triggered all their disads. Future funding is piecemeal which necessitates future legislation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Moser 1/29</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Haggling over Hurricane Sandy relief: The unraveling of a rational disaster relief policy By Marian Moser Jones, author, The American Red Cross from Clara Barton to the New Deal - 01/29/13 10:00 AM ET</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/279587-haggling-over-hurricane-sandy-relief-the-unraveling-of-a-rational-disaster-relief-policy#ixzz2JQ6ccQ00|http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/economy-a-budget/279587-haggling-over-hurricane-sandy-relief-the-unraveling-of-a-rational-disaster-relief-policy#ixzz2JQ6ccQ00]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Jones, an assistant professor in the Department of Family Sciences at the University of Maryland School of Public Health, is author of The American Red Cross from Clara Barton to the New Deal Johns Hopkins University Press, Nov. 2012. She has previously served as an Assistant Professor at Virginia Commonwealth University’s Science, Technology and Society Program. Jones received her Ph.D. and M.P.H. degrees in Sociomedical Sciences from Columbia University, and her A.B. from Harvard College. Before beginning her graduate studies, Jones worked as a journalist, most recently serving as Editorial Director at GenomeWeb, an online life sciences news service in New York City.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The frustrating delay in moving Hurricane Sandy relief through Congress reflects</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">and it is doubtful that Congress will start it.</span>

===PLAN: <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 13pt;">Chris and I present the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in areas affected by Hurricane Katrina in 2005 in the United States.</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Advantage</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The intersection of race and poverty and car-lessness made the aftermath of Katrina into an overwhelming display of institutional racism. Mass transportation is critical for evacuation.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Wailoo et al. 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984, Yale University; M.A., 1989, and Ph.D. (History and Sociology of Science), 1992, University of Pennsylvania; joint appointment: Associate Professor of History, Karen M. O’Neill- Karen M. O’Neill studies how land and water policies change the standing of program beneficiaries and experts and change government's claims to authority and power., Jeffrey Dowd- graduate student, Roland Anglin- Associate Research Professor; Director, Joseph C. Cornwall Center for Metropolitan Studies School of Public Affairs and Administration (SPAA) Rutgers University-Newark ; Katrina’s Imprint: Race and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A landmark decision most known today for its application beyond transportation,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">car ownership ever more expensve and difficult in many inner-city neighborhoods</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The media’s images after Katrina turned the victims into savages, desecrating their individuality into a new type of reality TV. The government prohibits response by erecting “walls” of economic racism.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Žižek 05</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (OCTOBER 20, 2005 The Subject Supposed to Loot and Rape Reality and fantasy in New Orleans BY SLAVOJ ŽIŽEKSlovenian philosopher and psychoanalyst, is a senior researcher at the Institute for Advanced Study in the Humanities, in Essen, Germany. He has also been a visiting professor at more than 10 universities around the world. Žižek is the author of many other books, including //Living in the End Times//, //First As Tragedy, Then As Farce//, //The Fragile Absolute// and //Did Somebody Say Totalitarianism?// He lives in London http://www.inthesetimes.com/article/2361/</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">According to a well-known anecdote, anthropologists studying “primitives”</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Katrina bear witness to the deep class division of American society</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">A federal response is the only ethical route. We need to recognize our collective responsibility to vulnerable populations.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Giroux, 2006</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ//</span>

//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In a May 25, 2001 interview, Grover Norquist, head of the right-wing group Americans</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">the resources necessary for an adequate emergency response plan in the event of a flood</span>//

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The 1AC is a pedagogical advocacy that opens up new opportunities for democratic deliberation and political action that disrupts the images of “powerlessness” of populations. A recognition of our obligations to the materially deprived helps to combat the biopolitics of disposability//.//</span>**
**//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Giroux, 2006</span>//**//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">BZ</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Biopolitics is not just about the reduction of selected elements of the population to the necessities</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">totalitarianism, and democracy is the antidote in urgent need of being reclaimed.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lack of public transportation creates racism in day to day life</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">D'auvergne 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Chapman University Southern University and Agricultural and Mechanical College at Baton Rouge Bullard speaks on transportation, racism By NATALIE D'AUVERGNE Published: Monday, February 20, 2006</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">According to Bullard</span> __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">transportation may be liberating</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">transportation was not provided for everyone."</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rejecting racism comes first – its the precondition to ethical political decision making.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">MEMMI</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">2000 –</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of Paris (Albert, “RACISM”, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The **struggle against racism will be long, difficult**, without intermission</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>__
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Structural harms outweigh</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Abu-Jamal 98</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Mumia, award-winning PA journalist, 9/19, [[http://www.flashpoints.net/mQuietDeadlyViolence.html]])</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We live,</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> equally immersed, and to a deeper degree</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">great and terrible violence passes away with them</span>__

**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 16pt;">IMPACT FRAMING</span>__**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Impacts should be viewed through the lens of environmental and racial justice– this is necessary to understand and rebuild after Katrina.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sze 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Julie Sze is an assistant professor in American Studies at the University of California, Davis. Her forthcoming book on the culture, politics and history of environmental justice activism in New York City is under contract with MIT Press. It looks at the intersection of planning and health, especially through the prism of asthma, and at changes in garbage and energy systems as a result of privatization, globalization and deregulation. Toxic Soup Redux: Why Environmental Racism and Environmental Justice Matter after Katrina By Julie Sze Published on: Jun 11, 2006</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus, the Gulf Coast region was, in many ways, “Ground Zero</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">long engaged with the toxic, environmental and disaster politics in the region.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Pure consequentialism is impossible – there are too many reactions that are unforeseeable – as an alternative, we suggest a view of morals. This is because we can understand the virtue of an action but we can never understand the consequences</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Lenman 00</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Univeristy of Glasglow and the United Kingdom Arts and Humanities Research Board.Consequentialism and Cluelessness Author(s): James Lenman Reviewed work(s): Source: Philosophy & Public Affairs, Vol. 29, No. 4 (Autumn, 2000), pp. 342-370 Published by: Blackwell Publishing Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2672830 . Accessed: 24/07/2012 09:53</span>
A typical morally significant action will have a host of consequences that are neither
AND
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">And such a story would precisely not be consequentialist.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The state is inevitable – our obligation is to make it as ethical as possible</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Simmons 99</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State’,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">0020Each of these principles, left to itself, only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Crisis imagery is a drug, used by the media and public to “get their fix.” Disaster victims only matter when and only when they are portrayed by the media. These efforts to solve these problems are coproductive with the disasters themselves because they need the next big catastrophe. We need to respond because it’s morally correct, not to prevent disasters</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Baudrillard 94</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">[Jean, “The Illusion of the End” p. 66-71]</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">We have long denounced the</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> capitalistic, economic</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">third kind, **__deliberate and experimental__**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Util promotes a decision calculus that is inherently racist - prefers the majority over justice</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Odell 2004</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (University of Illinois is an Associate Professor of Philosophy (Jack, Ph.D., “On Consequentialist Ethics,” Wadsworth, Thomson Learning, Inc., pp. 98-103) Herm</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">A classic objection to both act and rule</span>__
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">sacrificed to the Gods for the welfare of the group</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Racism creates a permanent condition of war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mendieta 02</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Eduardo Mendieta, PhD and Associate professor of Stonybrook School of Philosophy, “‘To make live and to let die’ –Foucault on Racism Meeting of the Foucault Circle, APA Central Division Meeting” http://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/philosophy/people/faculty_pages/docs/foucault.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is where racism intervenes, not from without,</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">then these threat and foes are biological in nature</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Embracing the Other makes war impossible</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Caygill 02</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Howard, Professor of Cultural History at Goldsmiths College, University of London, Levinas and the Political</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The other</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> makes possible the time of labour and</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">possession that must be defended by war.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">No Nuclear War</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Tepperman, 2009</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Jonathan, Newsweek International's first Assistant Managing Editor (now Deputy Editor), “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb” 8-29, http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html, SM]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">Why indeed?</span> __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The iron logic of deterrence and mutually</span>__
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">each country did what they had to do to avoid it</span>__