===[[toc]]=== 
=Wake Forest 1AC= 
==**Plan**== 
**The United States federal government should launch the Deep Space Climate Observatory.**
==**[[#Affirmative-1AC - Wake Forest---Contention One is the status quo]]Contention One is the status quo**== 
**The sun is entering a period of increased activity in 2013**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Derbyshire 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[David, Reporter for Mail Online, 2/22, “Get ready for a 'global Katrina': Biggest ever solar storm could cause power cuts which last for MONTHS” Science and Tech, [[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-1359136/Global-Katrina-Biggest-solar-storm-cause-power-cuts-MONTHS.html]]]</span>
__The world is overdue a ferocious AND__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">U.S. space agency said</span>

**Status quo satellites fail**
**Butt 10** [Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ” <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Continued monitoring of the space environment AND of this directive cannot be overstressed.</span>

**There is no funding for the updated version of this technology, the Deep Space Climate Observatory, or DSCOVR**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Turner 7/13</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[SpaceNews staff writer, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Space Climate Probe, Satellite Constellation” [[http://www.space.com/12259-house-panel-space-climate-satellites-funding.html]]]</span>
__The U.S. House AND would not provide funding for either.__

**Early warning of storms solves blackouts and satellite failure.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Phillips 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Tony, production editor of Science@NASA, which means that he writes, proofs, edits, formats, and does whatever is necessary to keep the stories rolling, “As the Sun Awakens NASA Keeps a Wary Eye on Space Weather” 6/4/2010, [[http://science.nasa.gov/science-news/science-at-nasa/2010/04jun_swef/]]]</span>
<span class="underline">Earth and space are about to AND We take this very seriously indeed."</span>


==[[#Affirmative-1AC - Wake Forest---Contention Two is Solar Storms]]Contention Two is Solar Storms== 
===[[#Affirmative-1AC - Wake Forest---Contention Two is Solar Storms-Scenario One is Miscalc]]Scenario One is Miscalc=== 

**Satellite malfunctions will trigger an accidental war**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Coffelt 5</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">– Colonel in the US Airforce, space operator (Christopher A., “The Best Defense: Charting the Future of US Space Strategy and Policy.” Maxwell AFB, AL: USAF Air University, June 2005. page 95 </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ctbtdebate.org/evidence/2338/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>
__Those that operate satellite systems and AND own systems and access to space.__

**30 Minute Timeframe to massive nuclear war**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Morgan 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">**,** Dennis Ray Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693</span>
__As for the accidental factor of AND__ war would surely have taken place.

**Accidental launch is the most likely scenario for nuclear use – tradition of nonuse tempers most other scenarios**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">**Paul**, Professor of International Relations at McGill University, ‘5</span> (T.V, “The Risk of Nuclear War Does Not Belong to History” published in ‘The Waning of Major War: Theories and Debates’ by Raimo Vayryen, p 113-135)
Risk of nuclear war during the AND as well as by terrorist groups.

===[[#Affirmative-1AC - Wake Forest---Contention Two is Solar Storms-Scenario Two is the Economy]]Scenario Two is the Economy=== 

**Satellites are key to the economy**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Johnson & Hudson, ‘8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> – Lt Kevin Johnson and John G Hudson, Ph. D. NOTE – Johnson and Hudson = project supervisors @ Global Innovation and Strategy Center (GISC) Internship program. This program assembles combined teams of graduate and undergraduate students with the goal of providing a multidisciplinary, unclassified, non-military perspective on important Department of Defense issues. “Global Innovation and Strategy Center,”</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slideshare.net/stephaniclark/giscinternpaperspacedebriselimination]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Commercially, </span>__the economy of the AND__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-the-pump capability.”9</span>

**Economic collapse leads to great power wars**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mead 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Walter Russell. Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations. 2/4/9.</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">So far, such half-AND </span>__we may still have to fight.__

===[[#Affirmative-1AC - Wake Forest---Contention Two is Solar Storms-Scenario Three is Blackouts]]Scenario Three is Blackouts=== 

**Solar storms cause long term blackouts**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Butt 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Yousaf, Staff scientist at the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard University, where he worked on NASA’s orbiting Chandra X-ray Observatory project from 1999–2004. He was a research fellow at the Union of Concerned Scientists’ Global Security Program from 2005–2007. He holds BSc degrees in physics and in mechanical engineering from MIT and a PhD in experimental nuclear astrophysics from Yale University, 2/1 “ The EMP threat: fact, fiction, and response ”</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1553/2]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For the reasons outlined above, AND </span>__multiple years are possible__ [25].

**Blackouts cause nuclear plants to meltdown**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">IB Times 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">International Business Times, written by staff reporter, 8/8/11 “Severe Solar Storms could Disrupt Earth this Decade: NOAA”[[http://www.ibtimes.com/articles/194166/20110808/solar-storms-severe-solar-storms-earth-paralyse-carrington-event]].</span>htm
__This is a particular problem in AND__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">that of major earthquakes and tsunamis.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">That causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wasserman 2001</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Harvey – senior editor of the Free Press, October 2001, “America’s Terrorist Nuclear Threat to Itself,”[[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/10/00_wasserman_nuclear-threat.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">No sane nation hands to a AND </span>__future generations__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">must be shut down.</span>

**DSCOVR is scientifically vital to solar weather prediction**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lautenbacher 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Conrad C. Jr., Administrator of the National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA), 1/28/2010</span>, Natural Disasters and Solar Storms: Why Space Weather Matters, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/conrad-c-lautenbacher-phd/natural-disasters-and-sol_b_440128.html]]]
__The DSCOVR (Deep Space Climate AND let DSCOVR's launch funding be eliminated.__

==[[#Affirmative-1AC - Wake Forest---Contention Three is Climate Conflict]]Contention Three is Climate Conflict== 
**Warming is inevitable – status quo CO2 emissions and oceanic feedbacks**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Solomon et al, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, ‘09</span>** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, February 10, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions” PNAS, Vol 106, [[http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]])</span>
Over the 20th century, the AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">peak level of carbon dioxide reached</span>.

**That causes global destabilizing crises that escalate – US military preventative action is key to solve**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tussing 2008 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]]]</span>
The impetus behind these efforts on AND are taking shape in every theater.

**Successful military responses fosters international modeling and cooperative efforts for broader climate action**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tussing 2008 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Bert B., Prof of National Security Affairs for the Center for Strategic Leadership at the U.S. Army War College, The Role of the Military in Civil Support, [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/download.cfm?q=862]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">In emulation of the American effortAND </span>the camp of the civil authorities.

**Lack of effective climate data means US power fails to respond to these – decapitates effective interventionism to check**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]]]</span>
<span class="underline">Climate change will likely exacerbate trends AND well </span>prepared to meet future challenges<span class="underline">.</span>

**And, the only way climate knowledge is actionable is if we have effective data**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rogers and Gulledge 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Will and Jay, Will Rogers is a Research Assistant at the Center for a New American Security, Dr. Jay Gulledge is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and is the Senior Scientist and Science and Impacts Program Director at the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. Lost in Translation: Closing the Gap Between Climate Science and National Security Policy, April 2010,[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Lost%20in%20Translation_Code406_Web_0.pdf]]]</span>
Given the proliferation of new tools<span class="underline"> AND </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">national secu­rity professionals need to ask.</span>

**International data fails, not actionable.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Parthermore and Rogers 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Christine and Will, Fellow at the Center for a New American Security and Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. Research Associate and the Joseph S. Nye, Jr. Internship Coordinator at the Center for a New American Security. “Blinded: The Decline of US Earth Monitoring Capabilities and its Consequences for National Security”, July 2011, [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf]]]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Our research suggests that </span>the UAND <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">effects of environmental and climate change.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">DSCOVR solves-</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Key to broader Earth Observation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Donahue 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Bill, Who Killed the Deep Space Climate Observatory?, PopSci 4-6-11, Portland based writer, [[http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2011-03/lost-satellite]]]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Since 1999, </span><span class="underline">NASA and NOAA have been calling for an integrated Earth-observing system</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">—a network of satellites that, among other things, would consistently measure changes in the Earth’s climate. </span><span class="underline">But that campaign is “languishing,”</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> said a 2010 Government Accountability Office report, and </span><span class="underline">there are “significant gaps in future satellite coverage</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Meanwhile, Earth-observing satellites AND </span>Earth-monitoring systems<span class="underline"> could </span>depend<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Key to model accuracy</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Williams 2008</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Trevor, Bring Back DSCOVR!, University of Victoria Mechanical Engineering PhD candidate specialising in renewable energy, power grid modelling and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles. He has a bachelors in Aeronautical Engineering, a Masters in Management Science and over 23 years international experience in the space industry, having worked on Earth observation and telecommunications satellites, 12-28-2008, [[http://www.greenmuze.com/blogs/eco-geek/687-bring-back-dscovr.html]]]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Obama’s first presidential pardon should be AND </span><span class="underline">a great boost</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in the 1970s.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Key to Integration</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Valero 2007</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Francisco, DSCOVR, Earth Sciences from a New Perspective, Abstract from Seminar at the Atmospheric Physics Dept. at the University of Warsaw, [[http://www.igf.fuw.edu.pl/zfa/?option=com_seminars&Itemid=41&lang=en&archive=1&year=2007-2008&func=view&seminar=91]]]</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The L-1 and LAND for the nation's investment in space.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A synergistic, integrated system composed of LEO, GEO, and SLPs platforms is likely the way of the future.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Solves data gaps</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wiscombe and Herman 2002 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Warren and Jay, PhD in applied math from CalTech senior scientist at Goddard Chief Scientist for Atmospheric Radiation Measurement Program, L-1 and L-2 Observatories for Earth Science in the Post-2010 Era</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[http://esto.nasa.gov/conferences/igarss-2002/02Papers/02060940.PDF]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The L1 and L2 Lagrange points AND </span>by other networks and spaceborne platforms”

===[[#Affirmative-1AC - Wake Forest---Contention Three is Climate Conflict-Scenario One is Africa]]Scenario One is Africa=== 
**Climate migration creates African instability – preventative deployment and international cooperation is key, lack of preventative planning acauses reactive deployment which triggers great power wars**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Smith 2007 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Paul J., associate professor of national security affairs at the United States Naval War College, Climate Change, Mass Migration and the Military Response, Orbis Fall 2007, [[https://transnet.act.nato.int/WISE/FSE/FuturesPap/ClimateCha0/file/_WFS/%20Orbis2--climate%20change%20and%20mass%20migration.pdf]]]</span>
Deployment of military forces will be AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">military forces in a reactive manner.</span>

**Great power draw in escalates to global nuclear war**
**Deutsch ’02** <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Jeffrey Deutsch Founder @ Rabid Tigers Project, 2002, "Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9 - The Nuclear Family Has Become Over-Extended,"</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://list.webengr.com/pipermail/picoipo/2002-November/000208.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]</span>
The Rabid Tiger Project believes that <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">AND </span>compelled to follow their client states.

===[[#Affirmative-1AC - Wake Forest---Contention Three is Climate Conflict-Scenario Two is Indo-Pak War]]**Scenario Two is Indo-Pak War**=== 

**Warming causes Indo-Pak war, disrupts irrigation patterns in Kashmir.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">IPS 2010 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Inter Press Service, January 18, "India/Pakistan: Reduced Himalayan snowfall could spark water war"[[http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/ips/14ecc8996051f75493d532d312e580ae.htm]]]</span>
SRINAGAR , Jan 18 (<span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://ipsnews.net/|IPS]]</span>AND <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the mountains," </span>said Prof Sultan.

**US military is key to solve, otherwise it escalates to a global nuclear war and draws in great powers**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Baker 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [Michael L., former International Affairs resident fellow at CFR, The Coming Conflicts of Climate Change, September 7 2010,[[http://www.cfr.org/climate-change/coming-conflicts-climate-change/p22886]]]</span>
Perhaps <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">nowhere is this more concerning AND the challenges posed by climate change.</span>

**Water sharing is the only scenario for Indo-Pak nuclear conflict.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bakshi and Trivedi 2011</span>**
Gitanjali and Sahiba, Project Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit at the Strategic Foresight Group and Joint Coordinator for the South Asia Security Unit., “The Indus Equation, June 2011, [[http://www.strategicforesight.com/110617.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Pakistan’s primary interest in Kashmir is AND </span>the Chenab River lies in Jammu