=1AC UMICH= 
===Plan Text:=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding of port security.

==Contention 1: Terrorism== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AAPA 3/7** [American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, [[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]], 3/7/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AAPA urges Congress to continue ... should remain ¶ at the federal level.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NPR 3/26</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, [[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]], 3/26/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As Mike Shuster said a moment ago, the … yet uncaught, still have a substantial chunk of this highly enriched uranium.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Attack is on the brink – anti-Muslim video</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ephron 9/15</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Dan Ephron has been Newsweek's Jerusalem bureau chief since January 2010. Previously, he served as a national-security correspondent and deputy bureau chief for the magazine in Washington. His stories have also appeared in The Boston Globe, The New Republic, and Esquire. “As Muslims Protest, America Is on Alert” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/09/15/as-muslims-protests-america-is-on-alert.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The bodies of Ambassador Christopher … the year, it will be a miracle.”</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Maerli 2k</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer-2K, p. 111-112.)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A striking parallel can be seen in … 300 kilograms would lead to a nuclear explosive.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">New terrorists have the motivation to attack – multiple reasons</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lippman 3</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Matthew, Professor, Department of Criminal Justice, University of Illinois-Chicago, “The New Terrorism and International Law,” TULSA JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE AND INTERNATIONAL LAW v. 10, 2003, p. 302-304)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The contemporary era has ushered … limited political objectives. n62</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Studies and statistical trends prove that terrorists are gearing up for an attack</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hurst 8</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Cindy, political-military research analyst with the Foreign Military Studies¶ Office and is also a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy Reserve, writing for IAGS: Institute for the Analysis of Global Security, non-profit organization in Washington dedicated to research and public debate on issues related to energy security, “The Terrorist Threat to ¶ Liquefied Natural Gas:¶ Fact or Fiction?”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.iags.org/hurstlng0208.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">, 2/8)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">On 14 February 2007, the Saudi ¶ Arabian arm ... al-Qaeda, or one of its ¶ affiliates, will select a target.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NYT 6/26</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded ... nation can no longer risk such delays.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Delays only magnify the impact – terrorists are focusing on nukes now</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Calvan 12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Bobby, Boston Globe Staff and former foreign reporting fellow with the D.C.-based International Center for Journalists, “US to miss target for tighter port security”, Boston Globe, 6/12/12, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-12/nation/32176427_1_homeland-security-cargo-containers-nuclear-bomb/3]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Department of Homeland Security will miss ... through radioactive explosives called “dirty bombs.’’¶</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nuclear terrorism leads to extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ahmed 4</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">, ME)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A nuclear attack by terrorists will ... infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even if the attack fails it causes Russia and China war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ayson 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and ... might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">War with Russia outweighs - It’s the only existential risk</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bostrom 2</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Nick, PhD Faculty of Philosophy, Oxford University “Existential Risks :Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards”</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of ... we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bioterrorism is incredibly easy</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Allison 9-7** (Graham Allison is director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs. “Living in the Era of Megaterror” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h|http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/08/opinion/living-in-the-era-of-megaterror.html#h]][IaQAbl,2,WtdFsa,2])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Capabilities for producing … will live in an era of megaterror.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">GSN 9</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">¶The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland ... Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ochs 2</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the ... HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">New U.S. nuclear policies aren’t stable – a biological attack ensures widespread nuclear retaliation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Potter 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (William Potter, Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS), author or editor of seventeen books, including Nuclear Power and Nonproliferation, Dismantling the Cold War, and the Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism. serves on the Nonproliferation Panel of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences Committee on International Security and Arms Control, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and served for five years on the UN Secretary-General’s Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters, member of the International Advisory Board of The Center for Policy Studies in Russia, advisor to the delegation of Kyrgyzstan at the 1995 NPT Review and Extension Conference and the 1997, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008, and 2009 sessions of the NPT Preparatory Committee, as well as at the 2000 and 2005 NPT Review Conferences, Winter 2010, “In Search of the Nuclear Taboo: Past, Present, and Future”, cns.miis.edu/other/potter_william_100115_IFRI_pp31.pdf)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In the case of the United States, the reorientation ... to retaliate; it ¶ creates a commitment”.</span>


Increasing port security will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack
John <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Medalia 6</span> Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] ) RF
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What Priority Should Port ... among ports and other potential targets.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A port attack shuts down naval power</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Watts 5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Connecting the continental United States to this ... can we learn from the experience?</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Talor et al. 7</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The U.S. Navy has considerable ... already overburdened airlift resources.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Maritime power solves all war – deters conflict and ensures defense</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Whiteneck and Clark 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Commander Bryan Clark U.S. Navy (Retired) and Dr. Dan Whiteneck, “Strategic Choices at the Tipping Point”, Proceedings Magazine - February 2011 Vol. 137/2/1,296)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In light of global economic and strategic realities, here’s ... it will indeed be at a “tipping point.”</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2: Economy</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Any type of port terror attack causes immediate shut down – that decimates the economy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Flynn 3</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, and distinguished ... part of any counter-terrorism plan.</span>


Attacks don’t need to be successful- perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence
**Clark et al. 7**. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why? Because</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in this … of any counter-terrorism plan.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economic decline causes war and miscalculation</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Royal 10</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Less intuitive is how periods of ... considered ancillary to those views.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The world economy relies on the US for trade and maritime security – trade accounts for 25% of US GDP</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fritelli 5</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Transportation Analyst [John F. Fritelli, CRS Report for Congress Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress –May 27th 2005 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Access Date - 6/22/2012)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ships are the primary mode of transportation ... customs filing process for U.S. importers.</span>


**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">U.S. trade is key to preventing great power war</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Boudreux 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20,</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">During the past 30 years, Solomon ... to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.</span>

==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 3: Solvency</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Visualization and imaging technology solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">PPIC 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Public Policy Institute of California, Citing: Jon D. Haveman, RAND policy expert and Joward Shatz, Senior Economist at RAND, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports:¶ Balancing Securityand Cost”, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">, 2006)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As documentation cannot be taken ... emissions, which are then detected.</span>