=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan</span>= 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment of port security.</span>**

=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism]][[#Contention One is Terrorism]]Contention One is Terrorism</span>= 

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems]]**Recent cuts leave port security vulnerable – we don’t have the funds to expand and adapt to problems**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">AAPA 3/7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[American Association of Port Authorities], (“Maritime Security”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://aapa.files.cms-plus.com/Maritime%20Security%202012.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, 3/7/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">AAPA urges Congress to continue… at the federal level.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN]]**Terrorists are already stealing the material for nukes now – it’s not a question of IF the attack will occur, but WHEN**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">NPR 3/26</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Quoting: Matthew Bunn, associate professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, “Report Examines Effort To Secure Loose Nukes”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.npr.org/2012/03/26/149411800/report-examines-effort-to-secure-loose-nukes]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, 3/26/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">As Mike Shuster said a moment ago… smugglers, as yet uncaught, still have a substantial chunk of this highly enriched uranium.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb]]**Building a weapon is surprisingly easy – it’s just a question of if they can get enough material for the bomb**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Maerli2k</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Morten Bremer Science Program Fellow, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University, Quoting: Luis W. Alvarez, prominent nuclear weapons scientist for Manhattan Project, “Relearing the ABCs: Terrorists and ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction;.” THE NONPROLIFERATION REVIEW, Summer</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">-</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">2K, p. 111-112.)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">A striking parallel can be seen in the discussion surrounding… one design that is about one-meter long and weighs no more than 300 kilograms would lead to a nuclear explosive.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons]]**Cargo is the most probable method of attack for nuclear weapons**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">NYT 6/26</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (New York Times news service, includes opinions from: Stephen Flynn, President of the Center for National Policy and CISAC Consulting Professor at Stanford and Graham T. Allison, Harvard political scientist, “Cargo, the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded… to estimates by the RAND Corporation and the Congressional Research Service. </span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---Put away all of your Terrorism defense - The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy]]**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Put away all of your Terrorism defense - The nuclear motivation is there; acquisition and delivery are easy</span>**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Bunn</span>__</span>**<span class="styleboldunderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, 20</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">10</span>__</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Matthew, Associate Professor of Public Policy at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard, “Securing the Bomb 2010,” Project on Managing the Atom, Belfer Center, April,[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/Securing_The_Bomb_2010.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Complacency about the threat is perhaps the biggest obstacle… stolen nuclear material informing the police. 19</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---Ports will be targeted – they resonate with the underlying rationale of global extremist groups]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---Ports will be targeted – they resonate with the underlying rationale of global extremist groups]]**Ports will be targeted – they resonate with the underlying rationale of global extremist groups**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Chalk 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Peter, Senior Political Scientist at RAND, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States”, www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">It is also worth bearing in mind that maritime… intent¶and elicit considerable media attention if decisively struck.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---Extinction]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---Extinction]]**Extinction**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ahmed 4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Mohamed Sid, political analysis, Extinction!, Al-Abram Weekly Online, August 26 – September 1,[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm|__http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm__]], ME)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">A nuclear attack by terrorists will be much more critical… When nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.</span>


====**Terrorists will attack by the end of next year – it’s the consensus of experts**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Allison 12</span> (Graham, Ph. D in Political Science from Harvard, Director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Professor of Government at Harvard, Special Advisor to the Secretary of Defense under President Reagan, ‘Nuclear Terrorism Fact Sheet’, [[http://www.nuclearsummit.org/files/FACT_SHEET_Final.pdf]]) 
Assessments by Officials with the Best Information • Barack Obama, U.S. president (2010): … it is more likely than not a weapon of mass destruction will be used in a terrorist attack somewhere in the world by the end of 2013.”


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 1.066em; line-height: 1.5;">Even if the attack fails it causes war with Russia</span>**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Ayson 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington,“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear… This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.</span>


====**Immediate Extinction**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wickersham 11 </span>(Bill, University of Missouri adjunct professor of Peace Studies and a member of The Missouri University Nuclear Disarmament Education Team, citing: Steven Starr, senior scientist with Physicians for Social Responsibility, “Nuclear weapons still a threat”, [[http://www.columbiatribune.com/news/2011/sep/27/nuclear-weapons-still-a-threat/]], 9/27/11)
Nearly 20 years after the Cold War ended, humankind still … complex forms of life.” (See www.nucleardarkness.org.)¶It is important for Missourians to be aware that a Russian nuclear attack on the United States would probably incinerate the Honeywell nuclear bomb parts factory in Kansas City, the Boeing Defense, Space and Security plant near St. Louis, and Whiteman Air Force Base, home of U.S. B-2 bombers deployed at Knob Noster.


**<span style="font-size: 1.066em; line-height: 1.5;">Status quo security allows for easy smuggling of bio-weapons through ports</span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">GSN 9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;"> (Global Security Newswire, news service focused on global security threats, produced by National Journal, “Customs and Border Protection Faulted for Preparation Against Bio, Chem Threats”,[[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/customs-and-border-protection-faulted-for-preparation-against-bio-chem-threats/]]. 11/3/9)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The inspector general for the U.S. Homeland… "A plan to deploy these improved detection resources in our ports will be essential moving forward" (U.S. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee release, Nov. 2)</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---A recent influenza strain was created that would cause extinction if bio terrorists had the information – this is comparatively the WORST impact]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---A recent influenza strain was created that would cause extinction if bio terrorists had the information – this is comparatively the WORST impact]]**A recent influenza strain was created that would cause extinction if bio terrorists had the information – this is comparatively the WORST impact**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Prado 12</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Evan, a physicist in the Washington, D.C. region working for the Pentagon in advanced planning in the space program, citing: The Office of Biological Activities (OSB), a division of the US government's National Institute of Health (NIH) which promotes science, safety, and ethics in biotechnology, “Human Extinction by Biotechnology and Nanotechnology”, [[http://www.permanent.com/human-extinction-biotechnology-nano.html]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">As biotechnology has advanced, so has the power of the individual… Back Machine's archival page on PERMANENT.¶ Then came the year 2001. </span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---The information for this strain was released last week – that means it’s a race against time for the aff]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---The information for this strain was released last week – that means it’s a race against time for the aff]]**The information for this strain was released last week – that means it’s a race against time for the aff**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">GSN 12/4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Global Security Newswire, “Scientists Air Worries Over Proposed Rules on Avian Influenza Studies”,[[http://www.nti.org/gsn/article/scientists-air-worries-over-proposed-rules-bird-flu-studies/]], 12/4/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The Obama administration last week rolled out a… contend that the dangers of such research outweigh any positive outcome, according to Science.¶</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---A port attack shuts down naval power]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---A port attack shuts down naval power]]**A port attack shuts down naval power**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Watts 5</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">[CDR Bob Watts is a 1985 graduate of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy and has served six tours at sea conducting drug/migrant operations, most recently commanding the USCGC STEADFAST (WMEC 623). He is currently assigned as the chief of drug and migrant interdiction at Coast Guard Headquarters, where his responsibilities include drafting migrant policy and strategy, including planning for mass migration. A 2006 graduate of the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Homeland Defense and Security, he has advanced degrees from the Naval War College, Old Dominion University, American Military University, and is a doctoral candidate at </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">coastline and 3.4 million square miles of territorial seas and exclusive economic zones in the U.S. maritime domain. 1 </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Connecting the continental United States… planning process to meeting this threat. The first step in this process is looking for lessons learned that could be used in the current scenario: have we faced this threat before, and if so, what can we learn from the experience? </span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention One is Terrorism---Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation]][[#Contention One is Terrorism---Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation]]**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unimpeded access to all ports is critical to operation</span>**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Talor et al. 7</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Bruce Taylor director of research at the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF) in Washington, D.C; Antony Pate Bruce Kubu;) Protecting America’s Ports: Promising Practices A Final Report Submitted [[https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/221075.pdf]]</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The U.S. Navyhas considerable assets… but also valuable cargo and time could be lost, as military mobilization would be forced to rely on already overburdened airlift resources. </span>


====**Navy missile defense makes escalation of war impossible**==== 
**Carey, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Served in the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization and was the Commanding Officer of an AEGIS Ship (John, Washington Times, "SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES", June 26th 2006, Lexis Nexis, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Ronald Reagan's vision that the United States… sensors in Japan to detect a North Korean missile launch and initiate launch orders to interceptors at-sea; or in the U.S.</span>


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention Two is the Economy]][[#Contention Two is the Economy]]Contention Two is the Economy</span>= 

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention Two is the Economy---A terrorist attack DESTROYS the global economy and trade]]**A terrorist attack DESTROYS the global economy and trade**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Flynn 3</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (Written Testimony before a hearing of the U.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee Stephen E. Flynn, Ph.D. a terrorism expert at Northeastern University and former Commander of the U.S. Coast Guard, and a Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies, and Director of the Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, 3/20/03, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.cfr/|www.cfr]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Chairperson Collins, Senator Lieberman, and… as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade.</span>


====**Trade solves all war – empirics and analysis prove**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griswold 11</span> (Daniel, 2011, Director, Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, Cato Institute, “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 (2011), [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf]])
Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend… liberties will take root, and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention Two is the Economy---Economic decline causes war]]**Economic decline causes war**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” </span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and JurgenBrauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">economic decline… </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 1.066em; line-height: 1.5;">Attacks don’t need to be successful- perception of port disruption alone will shock the economy and international confidence</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; line-height: 1.5;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clark et al. 7</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">. (CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT NevinFidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” 10/7)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">Why? Because, in this new world of… a managed solution as a part of any counter-terrorism plan</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention Two is the Economy---The U.S. marine transportation system is the lifeblood of the global economy – an attack guarantees total economic collapse]][[#Contention Two is the Economy---The U.S. marine transportation system is the lifeblood of the global economy – an attack guarantees total economic collapse]]**The U.S. marine transportation system is the lifeblood of the global economy – an attack guarantees total economic collapse**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Allen 8</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Admiral Thad, U.S. Coast Guard, “Friend or Foe? Tough to Tell”, U.S. Naval Institute, [[http://www.pacnwest.org/docs/friendorfoe.pdf|www.pacnwest.org/docs/friendorfoe.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Some Americans take for granted how the shelves remain stocked… spreading anxiety throughout the global financial marketplace.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention Two is the Economy---Growth and unemployment are at an all time low]]**<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">Growth and unemployment are at an all time low</span>**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">NYT 8/29</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> (New York Times news service, citing government data, “Economy Still Stuck in Low Gear”,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/business/economy/second-quarter-growth-revised-up-to-1-7-percent-rate.html]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">, 8/29/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">Government data released Wednesday suggested the economy continued… reduce unemployment, which is at 8.3 percent</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**<span style="font-size: 1.066em; line-height: 1.5;">New security measures ensure investor, consumer and business confidence</span>**</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Palac-McMiken 5</span></span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(EvanorPalac-McMiken, Director of the Economic Analytical Unit at the Department of Foreign Trade and Affairs, “Economic Costs and Benefits of Combating Terrorism in the Transport Sector”, Asian-Pacific Economic Literature, </span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1111/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x/asset/j.1467-8411.2005.00158.x.pdf;jsessionid=04AE22510AFBB1EA4756D40DEA0CFA55.d03t03?v=1&t=h4ppdiht&s=3f469b88d024638a8733b4601e8cf7c32550c4c9]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">However, counter-terrorism measures can also… It should also be remembered that modelling of a particular scenario is simply for the purpose of illustration.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention Two is the Economy---Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy]][[#Contention Two is the Economy---Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy]]**Loss of confidence creates a negative feedback cycle annihilating the economy**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Rubin, Orszag, and Sinai 4</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD Economics, Senior Fellow of the Brookings Institute and Chief Global Economist at Decision Economics inc. (Robert E. Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup Financial, Peter R. Roszag, Senior Fellow, Brookings Institute, and Allen Sinai, Decision Economics, “Sustained Budget Deficits: The Risks of Financial and Fiscal Disarray” Paper presented The Andrew Brimmer Policy Forum, “National Economic and Financial Policies for Growth and Stability,” Sunday, 1/4/04)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">The loss of investor and creditor confidence, both at home… round of negative feedback effects.</span>


=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention Three is Solvency]][[#Contention Three is Solvency]]Contention Three is Solvency</span>= 

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Contention Three is Solvency---MMPDS technology solves]]**MMPDS technology solves**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13pt;">Sloane 10/11</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Dr. Stanton D. Sloane, bachelor’s degree in Professional Studies from Barry University, a master’s degree in Human Resources Management from Pepperdine University, and a Doctor of Management degree from the Weatherhead Business School at Case Western Reserve University, President and Chief Executive Officer of Decision Sciences, Earlier, he was President of Lockheed Martin’s Management/Data Systems, “Cargo Security International: Dr. Stanton D. Sloane of Decision Sciences looks at how passive detection systems can play their part in protecting the global supply chain”, [[http://www.decisionsciencescorp.com/cargo-security-international-dr-stanton-d-sloane-of-decision-sciences-looks-at-how-passive-detection-systems-can-play-their-part-in-protecting-the-global-supply-chain/]], 10/11/12)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In our global, just-in-time economy… of Homeland Security and former Governor of Pennsylvania.</span>


====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Increasing port security will reduce the risk of a terrorist attack**</span>==== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">John </span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Medalia 6</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Specialist in National Defense at the Congressional Research Service “Terrorist Nuclear "Attacks on Seaports: Threat and Response” published 2006 [[@http://www.fas.org/irp/crs/RS21293.pdf]] )</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 12pt;">What Priority Should Port Security Have… among ports and other potential targets.</span>



====**Despite devastating losses Al Qaeda and terrorist groups continue to expand – this proves their resiliency and means none of your advantage counter-plans solve**==== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fox News 8/1</span> (Fox News service, citing the State Department’s Country Report on Terrorism and its top Counterterrorism official Daniel Benjamin, “Al Qaeda gaining 'operational capability' despite core losses, report shows”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/07/31/al-qaeda-gaining-operational-capability-despite-core-losses-report-shows/]], 8/1/12)

Western strikes onAl Qaeda have shown progress… unaffiliated foreign fighters traveling to the country and posing the threat of greater violence.




====**T- BIll thumps your Poltics DA**==== 

**Caruba 8/28**

(Alan Caruba professional writer and public relations counselor August 28, 2012 “The Government Gu$her” [[http://www.canadafreepress.com/index.php/article/49110]])

Over at the Department of Transportation … $2.5 billion. Grants have gone to all fifty states, plus Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia.




====**Port Security is a Federal Responsibility**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Harrald 05 </span>**[John R, “Sea Trade and Security: an Assessment of the Post-9/11 Reaction,” Web, Fall 05, http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/pqrl/docview/220702986/1376BF5C74E6A8F9B1B/5?accountid=14667, 6/19/12]

By necessity, domestic and international maritime security… of seafarers do not include terrorists?