[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
V: Human Rights
VC: Maximizing Global Security
C1: States ought devalue and discredit nuclear weapons.
Zizek: “The worst slave owners were the ones who were kind to their slaves, and so prevented the core of the system from being realized by those who suffered from it, and understood by those who contemplated it.” 
Natalie Goldring is a senior fellow at the Walsh School at Georgetown University and a consultant to the U.N. Department of Disarmament Affairs. She states that “What we can do is decrease the sort of psychological/social/political value of the weapons. What the U.S. has done for the last 60 years is put these weapons up on an altar. They’re the symbol. You’re part of the nuclear club. You belong at the adult table. You’re a real power, a world power if you have nuclear weapons. All of these things perpetuate a sense of the value of nuclear weapons.”
C2: With continued state possession, nuclear terrorism is a real and imminent threat.
Bush: The single most serious threat to American national security is nuclear terror.
Obama: “The single most important national security threat we face is nuclear weapons falling into the hands of terrorists.” 

The Balfour center at Providence College writes,

“Today a nuclear bomb requires ... building a nuclear weapon is impossible.”

2007 (Director at Belfar Center for Science and International Affairs, Prof of Government and Chair of the Dubai Initiative at Harvard's JFK School of Government, "The Three 'Nos' Knows" http://nationalinterest.org/article/the-three-nos-knows-1843/ 
Graham Allison states,
“Where could terrorists acquire ... nuclear bomb in less than a year. “

Allison furthers,
“The U.S. Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation ... greater than 50 percent.”

Senior Fellow for Energy and the Environment and Director of the Program on Energy Security and Climate Change, “Deterring State Sponsorship of Nuclear Terrorism” published by the Council on Foreign Relations 2008,

Michael Levi states,

“Only a nuclear detonation ... trillions of dollars….”

C3: Ballistic Missile Defense Systems provide a strong defense against nuclear attack. 

Missile Defense Agency, US Dept of Defense, June 29 2010: “The Missile Defense Agency … … ballistic missile attack.”
General Henry Obering sums it up stating,
“Time and time ... bullet with a bullet.”


==Negative== 

V: Human Rights
VC: Maximizing Global Security

OBS 1: This debate is about the world as it is, not as it should be. You can’t affirm by just saying that a world without all nukes is better than a world with nukes. This debate is about whether, in a world with nukes and the technology to make nukes, do states have an obligation not to possess them. 

C1: The vast majority of states are rational, and are deterred with nuclear possession.

Jonathan Tepperman (Newsweek Deputy Editor) writes, 
	“There's never been ... to avoid it.”

Even states we today consider irrational are deterred.
Tepperman furthers,
	“For all of Ahmadinejad's antics ... a death wish. “

	When states are obligated not to have nukes, there is no deterrence and protection from any state, rational or irrational. Thus allowing nuclear possession is net beneficial.

C2: Nuclear Weapons uniquely deter chemical and biological attacks as well.

Keith Payne ("Why We Must Sustain Nuclear Deterrence," NIPP, April 1998) states,

	“A biological attack ... too dear and too high." 

C3: No nuclear possession means a return to conventional battleground math that triggers more war.

Kenneth Waltz (“Nuclear Myths and Political Realities.” The American Political Science Review, Vol. 84, No. 3 (Sep., 1990), p. 734.)  states, 

	“In conventional competitions, the comparative qualities of troops, weaponry, strategies, and leaders are difficult to predict. 
	Wars start more easily because the uncertainties of their outcomes make it easier for the leaders of states to entertain illusions of victory at supportable cost. 
In contrast, contemplating war when the use of nuclear weapons is possible focuses oneʼs attention not on the probability of victory but on the possibility of annihilation. Because catastrophic outcomes of nuclear exchanges are easy to imagine, leaders of states will shrink in horror from initiating them…. Anyone – political leader, or man in the street – can see that catastrophe lurks if …nuclear warheads begin to fly. 
	The problem of the credibility of deterrence, a big worry in a conventional world, disappears in a nuclear one.  
 
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]