[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-sizze: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**India/Pakistan Plan AC**</span>=== 

OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:
V: Morality

Reflective reasoning must be behind all normative statements.
Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University.

"But the human...or go forward."

Normative claims must be based on practical reason. We must respect the rationality of individuals.
Christine M. Korsgaard—Working Paper as of May 2010. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. Valuing Our Humanity.

"This question brings...to have it?"

Respecting the inviolability of persons is the only way to rationally value human dignity.

Frances Myrna Kamm—2008. [Lucius Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University.] Intricate Ethics. Oxford Ethics Series. 29

"The fact that...as an individual."

S: Treating people as ends in themselves.

OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The Republic of India and The Islamic Republic of Pakistan will immediately begin total nuclear disarmament

ADVANTAGE ONE IS INNOCENTS:

The nuclear postures of India and Pakistan rely exclusively on deterrence targeting one another’s population centers

Ali Ahmed—June 2009. [Security Analyst, New Delhi]. Nuclear Trajectory in South Asia. Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies #2885.

"In South Asia...restriction on India."

A) Deterrence holds people hostage. Hostage holding is immoral.
Steven P. Lee—April 1985. [Teaches Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, University of Chicago Press, 594-566.

"What is morally...kind of case."

B) The intention to use nuclear weapons is unacceptable.
Daniel M. Farrell—1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Ohio State University. PhD, Rockefeller University. MA, University of Chicago]. Immoral Intentions. Ethics, 102.

"What is also...about to do."

ADVANTAGE TWO IS NUCLEAR WAR:

A) Accidental Launch is likely.
Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth Nikitin—February 2010 [Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service] “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. Congress Research Service

"In addition to...strike from India."

B) PAKISTAN FIRST STRIKE
Manpreet Sethi—December 2009. [Fellow of International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies. Head of the Nuclear Security project PhD, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Research faculty of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, New Delhi]. “Nuclear Deterrence in Second Tier Nuclear Weapon States: A Case Study of India” Center of Humaties Science New Dehli. 25. CSH-Dehli.

"Perceived by many...avenge past wrongs."

C) Nuclear strike will escalate and kill billions.
V.R. Raghavan—Winter 2001. [Fmr. Director General of Military Operations of India. Current Director at The Policy Group, New Delhi. Visiting Fellow at The Center For International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. Limited War and Nuclear Escalation in South Asia. The Nonproliferation Review.

"As noted earlier...to the aggressor."

Even a limited exchange would kill over a billion people.
Royal Society of Medecine—October 2007. “Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine.”

"Even a limited...a global scale."

ADVANTAGE THREE IS PAKISTANI COLLAPSE:

The recent flood disaster in Pakistan has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.
Saeed Shah and Johnathan S. Landay—13 August 2010. [Staff Writers]. Pakistan Flood Disaster May Destabilize Nation. Seattle Times.

"the humanitarian and...with Al-Quada."

Pakistani collapse would put nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists. At the very least, collapse of a nuclear armed Pakistan will draw in U.S. and coalition troops.
J.N. Mattis—25 November 2008. [General, USMC. Commander, U.S. Joint Forces Command]. The 2008 Joint Operating Environment: Challenges and Implications for the Future Joint Force.

"in terms of...might be used."

Nuclear terrorism threatens the survival os civilization.
Yonah Alexander—August 2003. [Professor of international studies and director of the Institute for Studies in International Terrorism at the State University of New York. Senior research staff member at the Georgetown University Center for Strategic and International Studies.] “Terrorism Myths and Realities” Washtingtion times.

"Last week's brutal...global security concerns."

==Negative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Security Dilemma NC**</span>=== 

Nuclear disarmament creates a security dilemma that fosters violence and warfare. Eliminating nuclear weapons does not eliminate anxiety, mis-trust, and competition between states. When a state declares that they will abandon their nuclear arsenal there is no reason for any other nation to believe them. The uncertainty of a nuclear free world is disastrous for global security.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"Some disarmament advocates...and years ahead."


In a world of global zero, nations will have no way to ensure that other countries have actually abandoned nuclear weapons. The risk that even onenuclear weapon goes undetected is a massive danger. Fear and insecurity is inevitable.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"But let us...for disarmament research."

The lack of verification and constant fear of nuclear weapons capability by other nations causes pre-emptive and preventative war.
Charles W. Kegley, Jr. and Gregory A. Raymond—May 2003. Preemptive war: a prelude to global peril? National Affairs. Society for the Advancement of Education.

"Fear is a great...precede Bush's rational."

preventative wars destroy health, human rights, the environment, and cause domestic violence.

Barry Levy and Victor Sidel—2007. [Adjunct Professor of Community Health at Tufts University School of Medecine. Professor of Social Medicine at the Albert Einstein Medical College]. War and Public Health. Edition 2

"War accounts for..of our civilization."


=November-December= 

==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 

==Affirmative== 
Due Process AC
OBS 1:
Definition of charge:
"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.
"To make an...in the indictment"

Value: Justice
VC: maintaining consistency with the law

First, due process protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government.
Herbert L. Packer—1993. Two Models of The Criminal Process. The Limits of Criminal Sanction. Sage Publications, pp. 36-37.
"Since the 1980's...criminal history score."

Second, using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.
Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?
"it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."


Third, Due process rights are vital to public compliance with the law.
Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)
"It goes almost...trial is 'fair'".


CONTENTION 1: The justice system is unable to protect due process.
First, Juvenile courts deny defendants trial by jury.
Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.
"Although the right...from public scrutiny."


Second, Juvenile courts obstruct the right to counsel
Marsha Levick [Legal Director and Co-founder, Juvenile Law Center; Adjunct Professor of
Law, University of Pennsylvania School of Law and Temple University, Beasley School
of Law] and Neha Desai [Sol and Helen Zubrow Fellow, Juvenile Law Center], “STILL WAITING: THE ELUSIVE QUEST TO ENSURE JUVENILES A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO COUNSEL AT ALL STAGES OF THE JUVENILE COURT PROCESS,” Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 60:1 (2007), pp. 175-205, 175-178.
"forty years after...in resources remain."


Third, defendants are unlikely to forcefully assert their rights.
Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 520-522 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>>
"By most accounts...to receive services."


Contention Two: The adult court system is ideally situated to protect due process of all accused persons.
The criminal courts are equipped to address the unique circumstances and characteristics of each case
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"Perhaps the most...look as follows."

The existing infrastructure of the juvenile and adult correctional systems would continue operate effectively and unhindered if juveniles were tried in the criminal justice system
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.
"As Butts and ...criminal justice system."
==Negative== 
Recidivism Neg
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.
Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.
Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.
"I ask the...as a burden."

Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.
R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.
"I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."</span>

Sending juveniles to adult prison actually increases recidivism.
"Studies have found...the short run."
Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]

There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
[1] Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School

"experts have identified...and community reintegration.

Even just being TRIED in the criminal court and not being punished increases recidivism by fostering a sense of injustice in juveniles.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
"Findings from several...tried as adults."


Recidivism has four impacts.
Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.
"The effects of...cannot be understood."

CONTENTION 2: Violence in prison
Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>

"Juveniles in adult...dealing with difficult"

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]