[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">1ac – Solvency </span></span>

Contention 1 – Solvency

Text: Congress should remove the United States federal government’s private military presence from Iraq.

Withdraw from Iraq means PMC fill-in

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Matthews 10__<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> [07/12/10, William Matthews. Congress Homeland Security Reporter Defense News. “U.S Contractor Use in Iraq Expected to Rise.” http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=4704826&c=MID&s=TOP [...] ] </span>__</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">As the U.S<span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;"> military </span>pulls</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> …..</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> U.S. military personnel now provide.</span> </span>

Congress key – constitutional jurisdiction proves

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Elsea</span>__ __<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">9</span>__</span> (“Private Security Contractors in Iraq and Afghanistan: Legal Issues” Jennifer K. Legislative Attorney December 22, http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/135010.pdf)</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">There has been debate about …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> functions in an area of combat operations.”66 </span>

Iraq key – biggest PMC commitment 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Singer 5</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> -- Peter W. Singer, Director of 21st Century Defense Initiative, Foreign Policy columnist, “Outsourcing War”, BROOKINGS INSTITUTE, March/April 2005. http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2005/0301usdepartmentofdefense_singer.aspx</span> </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Nowhere has the role of PMFs ….</span></span><span class="boldunderline"><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">be more aptly described as the "coalition of the billing."</span> </span>



<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">1ac – Iraq Stability</span></span>

Contention 2 – Iraq Stability

Iraq stabilizing, but fragile – US presence withdrawal key

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">__<span style="color: black;">Cockburn 8/28</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Patrick, The Independent, Middle East correspondent since 1979 for the Financial Times and, presently, The Independent. Among the most experienced commentators on Iraq, he has written four books on the country's recent history, __http://www.independent.co.uk/opinion/commentators/patrick-cockburn-grim-stability-is-the-us-legacy-in-iraq-2064049.html__)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Politically, Iraq may look increasingly like Lebanon ….. governments, and made sure the US never pacified Iraq. </span>



PMCs alienate Iraqis, breeds counterinsurgencies, fuel anti-Americanism, and gut government legitimacy

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Schulman 10</span>__** (Daniel, Mother Jones' Washington-based news editor, “Are Contractors Undermining US War Efforts?”) January 21, 2010 http://motherjones.com/mojo/2010/01/are-contractors-undermining-us-war-efforts </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The CRS report also states pretty plainly that the conduct of </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">…..</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the other agencies working in Iraq and Afghanistan.</span>

Iraqi support key to stability

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Singer 7</span>__** (Peter W. Singer, The Brookings Institution, “Can’t win with ‘Em, Can’t Go To War without ‘Em: Private Military contractors and Counterinsurgency,” September 2007) http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2007/0927militarycontractors.aspx</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The effort in </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Iraq</span><span style="background: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;"> is</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> just one </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">…..</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> company’s actions, while the firm went into ostrich mode. </span>

PMCs gut stability – arms sales, economic incentive for war, and human rights abuses prove

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Singer 2</span>__** (P.W., an Olin Fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution., “Corporate Warriors: The Rise of the Privatized Military Industry and Its Ramifications for International Security” Muse)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The following five subsections explore the ….. can serve both good and evil ends, so too can PMFs. [End Page 215] </span>

Human rights review coming now – opportunity for human rights reform 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Fisher 10</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, Global Policy Institute, April 27 http://www.globalpolicy.org/component/content/article/154-general/49006-us-to-face-litany-of-complaints-at-un-human-rights-council.html) </span></span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Human rights groups are telling the …..</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> for itself and its allies in double standards</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">," he added. </span>

Human rights leadership key to check genocide

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Koh 3</span>__** (Harold Hongju, professor of law @ Yale, “Foreword: On American Exceptionalism”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For now, we should recognize at least four problems with …..</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 10pt;">occur</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">because the United States does not get involved. (31)</span>
Passive non-intervention in genocide is a direct and complicit act – the judge has a moral imperative to intervene

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Arne Johan </span><span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vetleson</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Department of Philosophy, University of Oslo, “Genocide: A Case of Responsibility of the Bystander,” Journal of Peace Research, July 20</span><span class="Bold-UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">00</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 520-522.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Most often, in cases of genocide, for every person directly ….., they evade being traced in any definite</span>


Internal Iraqi instability spills over and triggers civil war

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Fahim 5</span>__** (Ashraf, Asia Times, Aug 20, 2005, “Iraq at the gates of hell,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/GH20Ak01.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Given all this grist, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">how might</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the dark mill ….. restive Shi'ite population forms a majority in the eastern part of the country (where all the oil is).</span>

Iraqi instability escalates 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Byman and Pollack 6</span>__** (Daniel L. Byman is director of Georgetown University's Center for Peace and Security Studies. Kenneth M. Pollack is research director at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution, “What Next?,” Washington Post, pg online @ http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/08/18/AR2006081800983.html)</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">The consequences of an all-out </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">civil …..</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Lebanese conflict helped spark civil war in Syria in 1976-82. </span>

Nuclear war 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Steinbach 2</span>__** (John, DC Iraq Coalition, Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: A Threat to Peace, March 2002, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/03/00_steinbach_israeli-wmd.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Meanwhile, the existence of an arsenal of mass …..</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> trigger a world conflagration.</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">"</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (44)</span>



Success in Iraq key to check terrorism

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Brooks 6</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> [Peter Brooks, senior fellow in national security affairs and the Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies in the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation, research fellow in Middle Eastern Studies in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies “NIE Confirms That Outcome of Iraq War Critical to War on Terror” http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=17274]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">After critics of the Bush Administration’s Iraq ….. Administration is correct in arguing that </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Iraq</span><span style="background: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;"> is a crucial front in the war against terrorism. </span></span>

Terrorism leads to nuclear war.

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Speice 06</span>__</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary [Patrick F. Speice, Jr., “NEGLIGENCE AND NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION: ELIMINATING THE CURRENT LIABILITY BARRIER TO BILATERAL U.S.-RUSSIAN NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,” __William & Mary Law Review__, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427])</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Accordingly<span style="background: lime;">, </span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">there is a significant</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> and ever-present </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">…..</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">to the use of nuclear weapons.</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 53</span>


Eliminating PMCs ensures long term stability and ISF fill in 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Towery 6</span>__** (Colonel for the US Army (Bobby A., “Phasing Out Private Security Contractors in Iraq,” 14 March 2006, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/ksil520.pdf)</span>

The Improving Security Capabilities of Iraqi Security …..<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> is presently provided by U.S. troops for Kellogg, Brown, and Root (KRB).</span>




<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">1ac – Congress</span></span>

Contention 3 – Congress

PMCs cause overexpansion of executive power 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Avant 7</span>__** (Deborah, Prof of Polisci and Intl Affair and Director @ Institute for Global and International Studies, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2007_hr/070425-avant.pdf) </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Contracting</span><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;"> for foreign training has thus</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">far </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">changed the …..</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> effective strategies for managing these contracts.</span></span>



Overexpansion is modeled – causes international preemptive wars, loose WMDs, destruction of human rights, and guts US cred

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sloane 8</span>__** (Robert D, Associate Professor of Law, Boston University School of Law, 88 B.U.U. Rev. 341, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">There is a great deal more constitutional history that arguably bears …..</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">and a threat to U.S. national security</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in the twenty-first century. </span>



Overexpansion of executive war powers risks spill over – Congressional reclamation solves

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Lobel 8</span>__** (Jules, Professor of Law, University of Pittsburgh Law School, Ohio State Law Journal, 69 Ohio St. L.J. 391, Lexis) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Many have criticized the Bush Administration's invocation of ….. Indeed, Chief Justice Marshall once observed that the "whole powers of war" are vested in Congress. n18 </span>



PMCs gut democratic accountability and allow for more aggressive, unilateral executive action 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">__<span style="color: black;">Zalzman 8</span>__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> (Zoe, International Legal Studies at NYU Law, INTERNATIONAL LAW AND POLITICS, [Vol. 40:853) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In addition to challenging the state’s monopoly on the use of force, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">…..</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">the interests of the poor, but towards those who can pay.”107</span>


Independently, PMCs kill multilateral security cooperation – gut incentives for compromise

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Stanger and Williams 6</span>__** (Allison Stanger and Mark Eric Williams, respectively Professor and Associate Professor of Political Science at Middlebury College., “Private Military Corporations: Benefits and Costs of Outsourcing Security,” Yale Journal of International Affairs, Fall/Winter 2006) http://yalejournal.org/sites/default/files/articles/4-19.pdf </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Given</span><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;"> the </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">U</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">nited </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">S</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">tates’ global </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">influence</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and power, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">…..</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">negative consequences the practice spawns both domestically and internationally.</span>



Unilateralism and excessive aggression cause backlash and proliferation 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Ikenberry 2</span>__** (Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition – Foreign Affairs) p. lexis </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Pitfalls accompany this neoimperial grand strategy, however. …..<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-weight: normal;">grand strategy runs the risk that history will repeat itself.</span></span></span>



Proliferation causes nuclear war and acts as a conflict multiplier 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sokolski 9</span>__** (Henry, Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center and serves on the US congressional Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism, “Avoiding a nuclear crowd,” Policy Review, June/July)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">There are limits, however, to what this approach can accomplish. </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">…..</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">future that neither the proponents of nuclear abolition, nor their critics, would ever want.</span>



Multilateral engagement solves US decline and ensures stability

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Brzezinski 5</span>__</span> (Zbigniew, National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, //The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership//, p. 2-4) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">History is a record of change. a reminder that nothing endures indefinitely. ….</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">effort</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> to shape a more secure international environment.</span> </span>

Solves extinction 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Nye 90</span>__</span> (Joseph, Dean of the Kennedy School of Gov’t at Harvard, //Bound to Lead//, p.17)</span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Perceptions of </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">change in the</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> relative </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">….. nuclear weapons, history as we know it may end.</span> </span>


Congressional limits on executive power key to democratic peace

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Damrosch 95</span>__** (Lori Fisler, Professor of Law, Columbia University, 50 U. Miami L. Rev. 181, Lexis) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin-left: 0.5in;">*Michael Doyle: Harold Brown Professor of International Affairs, Law and Political Science at Columbia University - School of International and Public Affairs. He co-directs the Center on Global Governance at Columbia Law School. His most recent publication is Striking First: Preemption and Prevention in International Conflict (Princeton Press.) He is the chair of UN Democracy Fund, elected by the members and appointed by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. In 2009, he was the recipient of the Charles E. Merriam Award of the American Political Science Association </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The proposition is now firmly established that </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">democracies</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;"> virtually </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">…..</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> expansive view of his own constitutional powers. n31 </span>

Solves all impacts

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Diamond 95</span>__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Larry, Hastings fellow, Foreign Policy) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The impact on democracies demonstrates the fallacy in thinking that “real” interests can be distinguished from the U.S. Interest in fostering democracy. </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">…..Democracy should be the </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">central</span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> focus</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">--the defining feature – </span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-origin: initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">of US foreign policy</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">.</span> </span>


<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">1ac – Preempts</span></span>

Total critique fails – kills action 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="tagChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Krishna 93</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sankaran, Prof of Poli Sci, U of Hawaii, Alternatives, v. 18) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">While this point is, perhaps, debatable, Der Derian’s ….f critical international theory and its impact on such an activist politics.</span>

Life precedes ontology

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Wapner 3</span>__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul Wapner is associate professor and director of the Global Environmental Policy Program at American University, DISSENT / Winter 2003] </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">All attempts to listen to nature are, indeed, social constructions, …. Eco-critics must be supporters, in some [...] fashion, of environmental preservation.</span>




=Negative= 


<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="color: windowtext; margin: 0in;">START DA </span></span>

A) [[#LastEdit]]START WILL PASS- BUT POL CAP IS KEY 

Jordan **__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Fabian</span>__**, **__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">8/27</span>__**/10, “Lugar: 'Large majority' of Republicans will back START treaty" 

Sen. Richard Lugar, the [...] suspect the treaty won't be passed. 

B) [INSERT SPECIFIC LINK HERE] 
[[#_Toc269042303]]
C) PUSHING CONTROVERSIAL ISSUES DRAINS OBAMA’S CAPITAL

Mark **__<span style="color: black;">Seidenfeld</span>__**, Associate Professor, Florida State University College of Law, Iowa Law Review, October 19**__<span style="color: black;">94</span>__**

In addition, the propensity of [...] changes to implement his policy vision. 
[[#_Toc269042305]]
D) OBAMA NEEDS CAPITAL TO KEEP REPUBLICANS ON BOARD FOR RATIFICATION 

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Andrei </span><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black;">Fedyashin</span>__</span>__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">,</span>__ military analyst for Ria Novosti, 2-2-<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black;">2010</span>__</span>__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">.</span>__ [Ria Novosti, “What could help the new START Treaty?,” http://en.rian.ru/analysis/20100202/157755995.html] 

Russian sources in Geneva expect the [...] through, or this may not.

E) START KEY TO PREVENT NUCLEAR WAR

Blanchfield 9 [Mike Blanchfield, staff writer, 7-4-2009. [Montreal Gazette, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=] 

Still, Blair and many others [...] buried by them," Blair said.



<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">TROOP DA</span></span>

1. THE US IS NOT GOING TO INTERVENE IN PAKISTAN 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Associated Press</span>__** 5/7/**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__** , (“Gates: U.S. troops won't be sent to Pakistan”, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/30615955/,)</span>

CAMP LEATHERNECK, Afghanistan — There [...] miles of the capital, Islamabad. 

2. TROOPS IN IRAQ WILL BE SENT TO PAKISTAN TO FIGHT 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Tom **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Hayden 9</span>__** – American social and political activist and politician (“The Long War Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and more ahead”, May 22, Global Research, http://www.uslaboragainstwar.org/article.php?id=20854)</span>

The concept of the "Long [...] over a timespan of five decades. 

3. LARGER US PRESENCE CAUSES INSTABILITY 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">(**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">The Wall Street Journal</span>__** 7/20/**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__** “U.S. Forces Step Up Pakistan Presence”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704723604575379132838698738.html?mod=WSJ_article_LatestHeadlines)</span>

The Pakistani government has warned the [...] the southern islands of Mindanao.

4. PAKISTAN STABILITY KEY TO PREVENTING NUCLEAR TERRORISM

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">(Lisa **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Curtis</span>__**, senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation on South Asia, Lisa Curtis specializes in U.S. policy toward India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. 7/6/**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__** “U.S. Policy and Pakistan's Nuclear Weapons: Containing Threats and Encouraging Regional Security” http://heritage.org/Research/Testimony/US-Policy-and-Pakistans-Nuclear-Weapons-Containing-Threats-and-Encouraging-Regional-Security)</span>

The potential for the intersection of [...] based on trust and mutual understanding.

5. EVEN A FAILED NUCLEAR TERRORISM ATTACK CAUSES EXTINCTION. 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">(Mohamed **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Sid-Ahmed</span>__**, Political Analyst for Al-Ahram Newspaper, **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">2004</span>__**.“Extinction!” http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)</span>

What would be the consequences of [...] , we will all be losers.


<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">POSITIVE PEACE K</span></span>

THE AFFIRMATIVE’S REPRESENTATIONS OF WAR AS AN EVENT LEAD TO CRISIS-BASED POLITICS, WHICH DESTROYS FUTURE ACTIVISM. THE IDEA THAT “PEACE” IS <span class="underline"><span style="color: black;">THE POLAR OPPOSITE OF WAR DISABLES US FROM CHALLENGING STATE SPONSORED VIOLENCE AND MILITARISM. VOTE NEGATIVE TO REJECT THE AFFIRMATIVES REPRESENTATIONS OF WAR AS AN EVENT IN ORDER TO EXAMINE WAR AS A CONSTANT PHENOMENON. </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Chris <span class="cite">__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">Cuomo</span>__</span>, assistant professor of philosophy and women's studies at the University of Cincinnati, HYPATIA v. 11 n. 4, Fall 19__<span style="text-underline: black thick;">96</span>__, ASP. </span>

Philosophical attention to war has typically [...] theoretical and practical forms of resistance.



<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">KIRKUK CP</span></span>

COUNTERPLAN TEXT: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD WITHDRAW ALL FORCES FROM IRAQ EXCEPT THOSE LOCATED IN KIRKUK IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TIMETABLES SPECIFIED BY THE STATUS OF FORCES AGREEMENT. 

A. NET BENEFIT

1. WITHDRAWAL FROM KIRKUK LEADS TO A CIVIL WAR IN IRAQ 

Nick <span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">McDonell</span>__</span> – staff writer for Time Magazine. 3/24/<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt; font-weight: normal;">20</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span></span>. Time Magazine<span class="CardsChar1">. “The U.S. Military: Mediating Between Kurds and Arabs”. </span>http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1887307,00.html

But trust between the U. [...] to want the Americans to leave.

2. IRAQI CIVIL WAR SPILLS OVER INTO THE GREATER MIDDLE EAST—THIS CAUSES SECESSIONIST CONFLICTS ACROSS THE REGION

Byman and Pollack 06
(Daniel L. Byman is director of Georgetown University's Center for Peace and Security Studies. Kenneth M. Pollack is research director at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution, “What Next?,” Washington Post, pg online @ http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/08/18/AR2006081800983.html)

The consequences of an all- [...] in Syria in 1976-82. 

3. MIDDLE EAST WARS GO NUCLEAR
Steinbach 02
(John, DC Iraq Coalition, Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: A Threat to Peace, March 2002, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/03/00_steinbach_israeli-wmd.htm)

Meanwhile, the existence of an [...] a world conflagration." (44)

B. SOLVENCY

MAINTAINING TROOPS IN KIRKUK IS THE ONLY WAY TO PREVENT CONFLICT BETWEEN THE KURDS AND ARABS

<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">The World Tribune </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">5/16</span></span>/20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__**. “Continued U.S. presence urged for northern Iraq to secure oil sector” .
http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2010/me_iraq0317_04_16.asp<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>

The U.S. military [...] Oil Co.," the report said. 



<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">T – REDUCE = IMMEDIATE</span></span>
<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; mso-element: para-border-div; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">Okinawa K AFF</span></span>

<span style="border-bottom: windowtext 2.25pt solid; border-left: windowtext 2.25pt solid; border-right: windowtext 2.25pt solid; border-top: windowtext 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; mso-element: para-border-div; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;">REQUEST CP</span></span>

TEXT – JAPAN SHOULD, THROUGH THE SECURITY CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE, REQUEST THAT THE UNITED STATES…

SOLVES THE WHOLE CASE – THE US WOULD CAVE

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 8</span>** (Doug, Cato Institute, Feb. 9 2008, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=59510)IM

Supposedly, the United States and [...] equal partnership, benefiting both nations.

<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; mso-element: para-border-div; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">CONSULT JAPAN CP</span></span>

THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD ENTER INTO PRIOR AND BINDING CONSULTATION WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN OVER… 

THE GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN WILL HAVE THE ABILITY TO MODIFY OR VETO THE RESULT OF THE CONSULTATION. THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT WILL IMPLEMENT THE OUTCOME OF THE CONSULTATION AND ADVOCATE FOR THE PLAN ACTION IN THE CONSULTATION PROCESS. 

Contention One: Competition 

RESOLVED REQUIRES IMMEDIACY AND DEFINITENESS. 

**__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">BrainyQuote.com No Date</span>__**, p. http://www.brainyquote.com/words/de/determine153522.html


To resolve on; to have [...] , this determined him to go immediately 

PRIOR BINDING CONSULTATION IS CRITICAL- ENGAGING IN SYMMETRICAL DIALOGUE WILL SOLVE THE US-JAPAN ALLIANCE, US HEGEMONY, EAST ASIAN STABILITY AND JAPANESE NUCLEARIZATION 

**__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Rapp</span>__**, Lieutenant Col. With a PH.D in IR from Stanford, 20**__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">04</span>__** (William E., “Paths Diverging? Accessed online at http://www.carlisle.army.mil/ssi/pdffiles/PUB367.pdf) 

With regard to the alliance, [...] the most favorable and responsible manner. 

GENUINE AND BINDING CONSULTATION PRIOR TO IMPLEMENTATION STRENGTHENS AND RESTRUCTURES THE ALLIANCE 

**__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Mochizuki</span>__**, Senior Fellow @ Brookings Institute, 19**__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">97</span>__** <Mike, Brookings Review, March 22, Lexis> 

As the U.S.- [...] with the major West European allies.

NOW IS THE KEY TIME TO BOLSTER THE ALLIANCE: 

Michael J. **__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Green</span>__** 20**__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">10</span>__** (Senior advisor and Japan chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and associate professor at Georgetown University) “Mr. Kan Can Fix U.S.-Japan Ties”. June 13, 2010. Accessed from: http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703433704575303592164774492.html?mod=wsj_india_main 

The new prime minister shows good [...] beyond defense of the status quo.

A STRONG US-JAPANESE ALLIANCE PREVENTS MULTIPLE NUCLEAR WARS 

Richard **__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Armitage 2k</span>__**, Deputy Secretary of State, 10-11-00, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/press/Spelreprts/SRJAPAN.HTM “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, ACC: 9.11.04, p. online 

Major war in Europe is inconceivable [...] central to America’s global security strategy. 

<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; mso-element: para-border-div; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">GUAM REDEPLOY DA</span></span>

UX: GUAM HAS A LIMITED U.S. MILITARY PRESENCE

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Shirley A. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; textunderline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Kan</span>__** Specialist in Asian Security Affairs, Larry A. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; textunderline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Niksch</span>__** Specialist in Asian Affairs, “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments”, Congressional Research Service, January 7, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; textunderline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">10</span>__**, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/<span class="MsoHyperlink">,</span>RS22570.pdf, mdaw- SJ</span>

Visiting Guam in May 2008, [...] defense buildup on Guam is moderate. 

L: THE PLAN FREES UP TROOPS WHICH WILL BE RELOCATED TO GUAM

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Robert <span class="highlight2"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; font-size: 9.5pt;">Naiman</span></span>, masters degrees in economics and mathematics from the University of Illinois, “Guam: Self-Determination, or More U.S. Troops?”, OpEdNews, 6/17/<span class="highlight2"><span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; font-size: 9.5pt;">10</span></span>, http://www.opednews.com/articles/Guam-Self-Determination--by-Robert-Naiman-100617-413.html, MDAW-MS</span>

Guam, in particular, is [...] estimated population of 180,000.

IL: CHINA HAS THREATENED TO USE THE PLA AGAINST TAIWAN IF THE UNITED STATES ADDS TROOPS TO GUAM. 

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Shirley A. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; textunderline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Kan</span>__** Specialist in Asian Security Affairs, Larry A. **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; textunderline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Niksch</span>__** Specialist in Asian Affairs, “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments”, Congressional Research Service, January 7, 20**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; textunderline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">10</span>__**, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/<span class="MsoHyperlink">,</span>RS22570.pdf, mdaw- SJ</span>

China’s civilian and military commentators commonly [...] under the cover of darkness.”19 

IPX: United States tension with China gives way to nuclear war

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="color: black;">China</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; textunderline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Cheong</span>__**<span style="color: black;">, journalist, WILL TAIWAN BREAK AWAY: THE RISE OF TAIWANESE NATIONALISM, 20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; textunderline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">01</span>__**<span style="color: black;">, p. 7. </span></span>

The US estimates that China possesses [...] China puts sovereignty above everything else.

<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; mso-element: para-border-div; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">
<span style="margin: 0in;">[[#_Toc271736782]]</span></span>

A. JAPAN WON’T NUCLEARIZE NOW BUT THE DOOR IS OPEN 

Llewelyn <span class="CitesChar">__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Hughes</span>__</span>, doctoral candidate in the Department of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Spring 20**__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">0</span>__**<span class="CitesChar">__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">7</span>__</span>, “Why Japan Will Not Go Nuclear (Yet); International and Domestic Constraints on the Nuclearization of Japan”, International Security, Lexis | 

Japan's status as a nonnuclear weapons [...] before, should leader preferences change. 

B. TROOP WITHDRAWAL CAUSES NUCLEARIZATION – UNDERMINES SECURITY CREDIBILITY – COLD WAR PROVES 

Toshi <span class="CitesChar">__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Yoshihara</span>__ and</span> James R. <span class="CitesChar">__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Holmes</span>__</span>, associate professors of strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, “Thinking about the unthinkable: Tokyo's nuclear option”, Summer 20**__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">0</span>__**<span class="CitesChar">__<span style="color: black; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">9</span>__</span>, Naval War College Review, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_3_62/ai_n32144580 | 

Indeed, historical precedents in Cold [...] possibility of a Japanese nuclear option.

C. JAPANESE NUCLEARIZATION TRIGGERS A REGIONAL ARMS RACE CAUSING NUCLEAR WAR 

<span class="CitesChar">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">Interfax</span>__</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">, 0</span>__<span class="CitesChar">__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt; text-underline: black thick; textunderline: black thick;">6</span>__</span>, “Nuclear Japan Would Trigger Terrible Arms Race in Asia,” http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/a-list/2006-November/063410.html | 

The emergence of nuclear weapons in [...] of such weapons," he said.

<span style="border-bottom: black 2.25pt solid; border-left: black 2.25pt solid; border-right: black 2.25pt solid; border-top: black 2.25pt solid; display: block; margin-left: 1.2in; margin-right: 1.2in; mso-element: para-border-div; padding-bottom: 1pt; padding-left: 4pt; padding-right: 4pt; padding-top: 1pt;">Schmitt K
</span>
They ran this in quarterfinals at Hopkins, this might just be a temporary thing
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]