[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
AC 1
The affirmative maintains a moral prohibition
Textual burden is to prove validity of whether states ought have nukes

Individuals have an intrinsic worth. Immanuel Kant [Philosopher]. “Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals” Prentice Hall; 1989 (Originally published in 1785).

We must only treat people as ends. Arthur Applbaum (political philosopher), “Are Violations of Rights Ever Right?” Ethics, Vol. 108, No. 2 (Jan., 1998), 340-366

VC - Potential consistency with the categorical imperative

The universalizability test is not simply abiding by certain standards of conduct, but actively harmonizing with the interests of humanity. Kant, Immanuel. “Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals.” Ethical Theory. Malden, MA: Blackwell Publishing, 2007, p 533

Nuclear nations rely upon an immoral system of deterrence. Paul Ramsey, Quoted in Walzer, Michael. Just and Unjust Wars. Third Edition. New York: Basic Books. 2000. Pg 270.

While massive numbers of civilian casualties is inevitable, the prolonged effects of a nuclear blast include radiation sickness for decades, and massive environmental risks including what Carl Sagan calls nuclear winter. Carl Sagan and Richard P. Turco “Nuclear Winter in the Post-Cold War Era” Journal of Peace Research, Vol. 30, No. 4 (Nov., 1993), pp. 369-70

There can be no limited nuclear strike. Nina Tannenwald “The Nuclear Taboo: The United States and the Normative Basis of Nuclear Non-Use” International Organization, Vol. 53, No. 3 (Summer, 1999), pp. 435-6

AC2

Faced with irresolvable questions, we can cower in despair, understand that we are the creators of our world. Jean-Paul Sartre. Found in Existentialism from Dostoevsky to Sartre, ed. Walter Kaufman, Meridian Publishing Company, 1989.

VC - affirming human freedom

We must affirm our freedom to uphold ethics. Jean-Paul Sartre. Found in Existentialism from Dostoevsky to Sartre, ed. Walter Kaufman, Meridian Publishing Company, 1989.

Nuclear weapons could be deployed within minutes, leaving no room for human freedom. Paul Virilio. Speed and Politics. Los Angeles, CA: Semiotext(e), 2006.

A nuclear weapon could only be justified by something more important than life. Jacques Derrida, “No Apocalypse, Not Now (Full Speed Ahead, Seven Missiles, Seven Missives)” Diacritics, Vol. 14, No. 2, Nuclear Criticism (Summer, 1984),

Nuclear weapons render governments into automatons. Paul Virilio. Speed and Politics. Los Angeles, CA: Semiotext(e), 2006.

If we want to affirm humanity and thus ethics, we must act now and end nuclear double-speak. David Cortright “How to Rid the World of Nuclear Weapons” May 2010
http://www.sojo.net/index.cfm?action=magazine.article&issue=soj1005&article=how-to-rid-the-world-of-nuclear-weapons

AC3

Moral evaluations only make sense in collective contexts.Gilbert Harman [Philosopher at Princeton University specializing in ethics and the philosophy of mind.]. “Moral Relativism Defended”. The Philosophical Review, Vol. 84, No. 1 (Jan., 1975), pp. 3-22. "My thesis is ..to an agreement"

Power is prone to abuse. 

People justify political authority.

Democracy is the only way to ensure people are respected.

Democracy prevents war. Cranmer, Skyler Democratic Peace September, 2005 Professor, University of North Carolina Chapel Hill "Kant (1991 (1795) ...1992; Starr, 1992)."

VC - Ensuring Democratic Accountability

Nuclear weapons put too much power into the hands of too few people.Richard H. Ullman [Director of the 1980s Project of the Council on Foreign Relations and Professor of International Affairs at Princeton University] “Denuclearizing International Politics” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 567-588, University of Chicago Press. "The second consideration...make itself felt" 

Nuclear weapons don't allow for governments to choose to launch weapons.Paul Virilio. Speed and Politics. Los Angeles, CA: Semiotext(e), 2006."Ten years later...decision for war"

Nuclear weapons don't allow citizens to decide if they are being made. Sissela Bok [Formerly a Professor of Philosophy at Brandeis University, Sissela Bok is currently a Senior Visiting Fellow at the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard School of Public Health.] “Distrust, Secrecy, and the Arms Race” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 712-727, University of Chicago Press. "And since military...confronted their nations"

Nuclear weapons put states into a constant state of war. Riachrd Falk. “Nuclear Weapons and the end of democracy.” PRAXIS International (PRAXIS International), issue: 1 / 1982. "The view of "...a democratic policy



==Negative== 

NC1

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Self-Defense is a right. Justice becomes meaningless if individuals can’t protect themselves against injustice. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The right to self-defense is key to protecting the right to life. Shlomit Wallerstein [Lecturer, St. Peter's College, Oxford University]. “Justifying the Right to Self-Defense: A Theory of Forced Consequences” Virginia Law Review, Vol. 91, No. 4 (Jun., 2005), pp. 999-1035 “Starting from the …by an aggressor” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Self-defense is an accepted right in the international community. Beth Polebaum [member of the New York and Massachusetts bars and practices law with Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen, & Katz in New York City]. “National Self-Defense in International Law: An Emerging Standard for a Nuclear Age.” New York University Law Review. Vol. 59, Apr. 1984: Pg. 191. “It is clear … the preemption justified” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> VC - not violating the right of self-defense </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> States only develop nuclear weapons in order to feel secure in a world rife with nuclear powers Scott D. Sagan [Associate Professor of Political Science and a faculty associate of the Center for International Security and Arms Control at Stanford University]. “Rethinking the Causes of Nuclear Proliferation: Three Models in Search of a Bomb” featured in “The Coming Crisis: Nuclear Proliferation, U.S. Interests, and World Order” Edited by Victor A. Utgoff., 2000. pp 21-22. “After August 1945…. China's conventional deterrent.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Nuclear weapons lack strategic value. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The threat of military force provides an active incentive for nations to gain nuclear weapons Ted Galen Carpenter [Vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute] and Charles V. Pena [Cato's former director of defense policy studies and the author of studies on the war on terrorism]. “Rethinking Non-Proliferation”. The National Interest, Summer 2005. “In the wake… thing Washington wanted” </span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 


== ==