[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
== == 

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**South Korea 1AC**</span>== 
====**<span style="font-size: 25.2px; line-height: 38px;">Read at Longbeach, Fullerton, Meadows, and USC</span>**==== 


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> US military remains in South Korea</span>
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lasseter 10</span> </span><span class="cardChar">(Tom, 6/21, Staffwriter, “Sixty years after war broke out, Korean peninsula still in limbo, accessed 6/21, [[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/06/21/96276/sixty-years-after-war-broke-out.html]], JH)</span>**

__T he conflict that began__ **<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt; text-decoration: none;">… </span></span><span class="cardChar">over its borders</span>.**


<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of the Eighth United States Army and Marine Forces Korea</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 16pt;">.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is North Korea</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Korean tensions uniquely high</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ABC News 9/23 </span>**(“ Russia warns of conflict between North, South Korea” 9/23/10, [[http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/09/23/3019418.htm?section=justin]])**

__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">Russia warned on Wednesday</span>__ **… killing 46 sailors.**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miscalc leads to global escalation – five scenarios</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sanger, 10</span> **(5/28/10, David E. Sanger, NY Times, “In the Koreas, Five Possible Ways to War,”**
**[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/weekinreview/30sanger.html]], JMP) USUALLY, there is a familiar cycle…**

__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">found its customers.</span>__


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North Korea will rely on WMDs </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The International Crisis Group, 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP) </span> This report examines… attacks or incidents.**




<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North Korea is improving nuclear capabilities </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shanghee, 6/30 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Fellow and Former Minister of National Defense and Former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. (Lee, 6/30/10, The Brookings Institution, “Thoughts on an "Initiative Strategy" for the Comprehensive Management of North Korea” http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/04_north_korea_lee.aspx?p=1) </span>**
**Although it is difficult…** __<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">its warhead accuracy.</span>__


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North Korean nuclear use triggers every impact – it destroys the ozone layer and global agriculture – making conflict inevitable </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes and Green, 10</span> **- *Victoria University AND** Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not **Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)**

**The consequences of… the international community.**


Ozone depletion leads to extinction- Scientific consensus
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Greenpeace 1995</span>, **Full of Holes: Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer, http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">When chemists</span></span> Sherwood</span>**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">…</span> __life on earth**.**__


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global Agriculture collapse leads to WW III</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Calvin ‘98</span> **[William H. Calvin, Ph.D., is a professor at the University of Washington School of Medicine, affiliated with the Program on Climate Change, “The Greenhouse Connection” January, 1998 [[http://www.theatlantic.com/past/docs/issues/98jan/climate2.htm]]] The population-crash… the North Atlantic.**





<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North Korean bioweapon use would spread globally within six weeks</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Levy, 07</span> **(6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,**
**.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]]</span>, JMP) Immediately following 9-11… developed within days**




<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steinbruner 98 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">[John; Senior Fellow – Brookings Institute “Biological Weapons: A plague upon all houses” Foreign Policy Winter]</span>” Although human pathogens… its outer limit.**





<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is China</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China tensions high now – multiple causes</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sanger, 10</span> **(5/28/10, David E. Sanger, NY Times, “US, Caught Off-Guard by New Tensions with China, Cultivates Back Channel Ties” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/23/world/asia/23memo.html]])**


__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">Few foreign policy</span>__ **… avoid a trade war.**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Escalation is likely – impact is full-scale US/China nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dodge, 5</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies – Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, p. 415-416)</span>**


**In the summer of 2005… strategy may be revealed.**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chinese nuclear launch activates the Russian Early Warning System</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kristensen</span> **director of the Nuclear Information Project at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federation_of_American_Scientists|**Federation of American Scientists**]],** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">06</span> **[“Report: Chinese Nuclear Forces and U.S. Nuclear War”, [[http://www.nukestrat.com/china/chinareport.htm]]] In Chapter 2**


__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">we quoted</span>__ … <span style="background-color: #ffff00; color: #000000;">early warning system</span>.



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Empirically, this risks accidental launch and nuclear war with Russia </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosenberg</span>, **San Francisco Gate, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">06 </span>[Eric, “Experts warn of an accidental atomic war / Nuclear missile modified for conventional attack on Iran could set off alarm in Russia”, [[http://articles.sfgate.com/2006-10-06/news/17316809_1_nuclear-missiles-norwegian-scientific-rocket-ballistic]]]**


__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">Russian military officers</span>__ **… are false alarms.**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bostrom</span>, **gannon award winner, prof at oxford,** <span style="font-size: 12pt;">02 </span>**[Nick Bostrom, Professor of philosophy at Oxford University, 2002, ([[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]])] A much**


__<span style="background-color: #ffff00; font-size: 10.5pt;">greater</span>__ **<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">… </span>**__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">in the 21st century</span>__.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No turns – China’s rise is inevitable – it’s only a question of how we handle it</span>
Ikenberry, 08 – **professor of International Affairs at Princeton University (Jan/Feb 2008, John G., Vol. 87, Issue 1 Foreign Affairs, “The Rise of China and the Future of the West,” Proquest)**


**<span class="Underline0">Seen in this light… </span>place to receive it.**



<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US withdrawal solves- the non agression signal reduces tensions and solves Korean War</span>
David <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lai</span></span>, **Prof of Asian Security Studies at the Strategic Studies Institute, Army War College, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span>, “Obama's Policy Option on North Korea,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=286 <span style="margin-left: 0in;">President Obama should<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">… not</span></span> through <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">war</span></span>.</span>**




<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">We control empirics- the only time North Korea ever tried to fully cooperate with the US was when Carter announced plans to withdraw from South Korea</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> Cummings 2005</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 474) SH</span>**


__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">When the carter administration</span>__… **Korea was unified.**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A phased withdrawal prevents U.S. draw in – regional security efforts solve North Korea</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carpenter, 09</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – v</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, CATO Handbook for Congress, 7th Edition, “54. East Asian Security Commitments,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb111/hb111-54.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span> The U.S. alliance… as a security client.**




<span style="font-size: 12pt;">South Korea is key – U.S. presence risks superpower conflict with China</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Emmott, 10</span> – **Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece]]</span>) It is time to worry… could really be war.**





<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 5: Predicting the Future</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan won’t rearm – 3 reasons</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glosserman 9</span> **(Brad, Executive Director – Pacific Forum, CSIS, “U.S.-Japan Alliance is Better Than it Looks”, Korea Herald, 11-20, Lexis)**

**In theory, there is another**… __<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">end its alliance</span>__ .


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. empirically prevents South Korean nuclear rearm</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Payne, et. al, 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,”</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]], JMP) </span>**


__<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">During the 1970s</span>__ … __<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">to assure the ROK.</span>__


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Other forces check conflicts</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feffer, 04</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus and the author of //North Korea, South Korea: U.S. Policy at a Time of Crisis// (6/23/04, John, “Bring Our Troops Home (from Korea),” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig5/feffer1.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP) </span> Military boosters emphasize<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>**


<span style="background-color: #ffff00;">both based in Japan</span>.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Despite withdrawal of ground troops air and naval support will still deter</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Niksch, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and is the Senior Adviser for East Asia with the PRS</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (3/24, Larry, “The Opcon Military Command Issue Amidst a Changing Security Environment on the Korean Peninsula”, http://asiafoundation.org/resources/pdfs/NikschOPCON100324.pdf) </span> To the contrary… in Northeast Asia.**





<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Debate should only include discussions that are policy relevant – criticism fails to affect the political world</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 110%;">Joseph</span> Nye**,**<span style="color: black;"> pro</span>**<span style="color: black;">fessor at Harvard University and former dean of the Harvard Kennedy School. , BA suma cum laude Princeton, PhD Harvard, Former Chair National Intelligence Council, Former Asst. Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, you know who he is, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/12/AR2009041202260_pf.html 4-13-0</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">9</span>**

President Obama has… in the opposite direction.



Questions: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[mailto:leonardjp@sbcglobal.net|leonardjp@sbcglobal.net]]</span>**



= =