[[toc]]
Please contact Dan Lingel at [[mailto:dlingel@jesuitcp.org|dlingel@jesuitcp.org]] or Tracy McFarland at [[mailto:tmcfarland@jesuitcp.org|tmcfarland@jesuitcp.org]] if you need any additional information or citatations

=Affirmative= 
== == 
==Genealogy 1aC== 

After debating Japan for an entire debate season, Sullivan and I have concluded that we have talked about the implications of our military presence in Japan __without__ understanding the origins of that presence. A reflection on the underlying justifications of our occupation of Japan is required to understand a withdrawal of our military and police presence in Japan. Failure to understand the prior question of why we occupied Japan in the first place is what created the impetus for military interventions from the Iraq war to Kosovo. We must engage in critical reflection of our occupation in order to withdraw from Japan. 

Thus Sullivan and I advocate: United States federal government should withdraw United States Forces Japan. We defend the advocacy of a genealogy of United States Forces Japan and our presence in Japan concluding with the endorsement of the resolution. The role of the ballot functions to endorse that United States Forces Japan should have never and should not be in Japan.

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Chapter One: A Genealogy of the US Japan Security Alliance </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">The history of Western thought and US occupation is premised around the term “civilization,” its subjective construction provided the foundation for Western expansionism </span>
__<span style="font-family: Times;">Iwami,</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;"> Master in Political Science @ University of Canterbury, 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">08</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">Tadashi, “Discourses of Civilisation in International Politics: The Case of Japan,” pages 100-101] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">The French linguist Emile Benveniste has argued ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> civilisation is subjectively constructed.</span></span>


<span class="Tag"><span style="font-size: 12.5pt;">US occupation of Japan was an attempt to normalize Japan and align the country with US notions of civilization in order to utilize the US Japan security alliance for US ends.</span></span>
__<span style="font-family: Times;">Iwami,</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;"> Master in Political Science @ University of Canterbury, 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">08</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">Tadashi, “Discourses of Civilisation in International Politics: The Case of Japan,” pages 89 – 92] SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">This thesis has sought to ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">organisation, the Self Defence Force</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">s</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">, in 1954. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">The U.S. Japan alliance is the pillar of social antagonism and exclusion in East Asia, expansion of the alliance is justified in the name of bringing liberal democracy to the evil barbarians of the world</span>
__<span style="font-family: Times;">Iwami,</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;"> Master in Political Science @ University of Canterbury, 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">08</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">Tadashi, “Discourses of Civilisation in International Politics: The Case of Japan,” pages 100-102] SM</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The reinforcement and expansion of Japan’s </span></span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">pose for the region and for the world.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">This promotion of liberal democratic ideals creates a divide between barbarism and civilization, creating an Orwellian logic justifying endless violence in the name of creation and protection of a peaceful global order </span>
__<span style="font-family: Times;">Iwami,</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;"> Master in Political Science @ University of Canterbury, 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">08</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">Tadashi, “Discourses of Civilisation in International Politics: The Case of Japan,” page 94-95] SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">The question that must be considered in this …….</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">’ and ‘barbarians’ by ‘civilised’ people.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">The Cold War never ended, ideological antagonism towards Japan continues in the US attempts to make liberal democracy the sole standard for civilization in international politics by using Japan as a model country brought in line with Westrn ideals. </span>
__<span style="font-family: Times;">Iwami,</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;"> Master in Political Science @ University of Canterbury, 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">08</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">Tadashi, “Discourses of Civilisation in International Politics: The Case of Japan,” pages 89 – 92] SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">The </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">investigation into the reinforcement of </span></span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> that exist within this “pre-modern world</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">” (Cooper 2000). </span>
<span class="Tag"><span style="font-size: 12.5pt;">US policy of security alliance with Japan in order to civilize Japan and bring “them” into the international community normalizes military intervention – war is inevitable </span></span>
__<span style="font-family: Times;">Iwami,</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;"> Master in Political Science @ University of Canterbury, 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">08</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">Tadashi, “Discourses of Civilisation in International Politics: The Case of Japan,” pages 92-94] SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Hence, we might say that the </span><span class="DebateUnderline">end of the </span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"> any potential ‘barbaric’ attacks.</span>

<span class="Tag"><span style="font-size: 12.5pt;">Implications of this logic---</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">China’s potential threat to regional order and liberal democracy is the foundation of why the alliance desires to “reform” the nefarious China </span>
__<span style="font-family: Times;">Iwami,</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;"> Master in Political Science @ University of Canterbury, 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">08</span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">Tadashi, “Discourses of Civilisation in International Politics: The Case of Japan,” page 95-97] SM</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Turning to the </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">regional perspective in </span></span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Japan and China are now articulated and understood. </span></span>
<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">America’s stance towards China is born out of a militaristic desire to paint China as the “other” in order to maintain the static identity of the United States, this constant search for identity makes militarism pervasive and the preferred option in any resolution of international conflict</span></span>
<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> __Chang__</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">, professor of Philosophy, 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> [Chung-Yue, 9/3, “How the US can avoid road to ruin”, </span>[[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/thinktank/2010-09/03/content_11250684.htm]]<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">] SM</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">During the third quarter of this year, western </span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">cooperates and nourishes" mentality.</span></span>
**This framework of direct threat and security has dominated our foreign policy and world of politics resulting in millions of deaths of the potential for more if left unchecked**

**Der Derian, Prof of Poly Sci at Univ of Massachusetts, 1998**
(James. On Security, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard. Columbia International Affairs Online, [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html]], accessed January 22, 2008)
<span class="UnderliningChar">The rapidity of change in the international </span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span>make it into the Pantheon at all.

<span style="font-family: Times;">This insatiable quest for identity of normalization and civilization necessitates friend/enemy distinctions; war becomes the only rational solution in resolving political conflicts making global violence a reality</span>
__<span style="font-family: Times;">Burke</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations, University of New South Wales, </span>__<span style="font-family: Times;">07</span>__<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;"> (Anthony, “War as a Way of Being: Lebanon, 2006, Theory and Event,” 10:21, Muse)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">The conceptual template for such an image of </span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> are arguably examples of such ontologies in action.</span>
Chapter Two: State of Military Exception 
Sovereignty is constituted though confined spaces of exception, our military occupation writ large and bases specifically in Japan creates one such space. In this space, suspension of inherent Japanese rights and enforcement of subjective constitutional obligations on post-war Japan feeds the self image of the United States and civilization. 
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/journals/american_quarterly/v057/57.3yoneyama.html#top|Yoneyama]]</span>__,__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> professor of cultural studies, U.S.-Japan studies, and critical gender studies in the Department of Literature at the University of California, San Diego, 20</span>__05__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> [Lisa, “Liberation under Siege: U.S. Military Occupation and Japanese Women's Enfranchisement, Project Muse – American Quarterly] SM</span>
Scholars in recent years have observed how <span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the political and moral supremacy it confers upon itself. </span></span>

The very structure of the Japan U.S. Security Treaty is founded on this state of exception, one that replaced Japanese sovereignty with U.S. unilateral discretion 
__Anderson,__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Mechademia, Volume 4, 20</span>__09__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> [Project Muse, Mark, Oshii Mamoru’s //Patlabor 2//: Terror, Theatricality, and Exceptions That Prove the Rule,” Mechademia, Volume 4, accessed 4/21/11] SM</span>
Arakawa argues that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan is today </span></span> ……. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;"> the international law of the Pacific.</span> </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">And, normative concepts of U.S. democracy and emancipation particularly targeted at Japanese women naturalizes a legal borderland through which the U.S. establishes a state of exception</span>**</span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/journals/american_quarterly/v057/57.3yoneyama.html#top|Yoneyama]]</span>__,__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> professor of cultural studies, U.S.-Japan studies, and critical gender studies in the Department of Literature at the University of California, San Diego, 20</span>__05__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> [Lisa, “Liberation under Siege: U.S. Military Occupation and Japanese Women's Enfranchisement, Project Muse – American Quarterly] SM</span>
Finally, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">in articulating how </span></span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">feminist modalities and aspirations.</span></span>
States of exceptions makes all human atrocities possible, from the suspension of the Constitution, to global civil war, and the elimination of entire categories of citizens that fall outside the normative political realm. The law becomes deactivated except when used for violence giving the sovereign state the “force of law” that reduces humans to bare life
__Damai,__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> professor @ the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, 20</span>__05__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> [Project Muse, Puspa, “The Killing Machine of Exception Sovereignty, Law, and Play in Agamben's //State of Exception//,” The New Centennial Review, accessed 4/21/11] SM</span>
Giorgio <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Agamben's</span></span> slender but profound <span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">place of law as the "force of law." </span></span>

Chapter Three: Vote Aff
Memories of our “good” occupation of Japan and US role as liberator guarantees preemptive military strikes. Vote affirmative to challenge the memory myth of US occupation of Japan. 
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/journals/american_quarterly/v057/57.3yoneyama.html#top|Yoneyama]]</span>__,__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> professor of cultural studies, U.S.-Japan studies, and critical gender studies in the Department of Literature at the University of California, San Diego, 20</span>__05__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> [Lisa, “Liberation under Siege: U.S. Military Occupation and Japanese Women's Enfranchisement, Project Muse – American Quarterly] SM</span>
The <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">yearafter theU</span></span>nited <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span></span>tates <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">attacked </span></span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> enunciation of violence and recovery. </span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Historical reflections on these justifications are key – without interrogating competing versions of liberation the seductive rhetoric of emancipation will justify endless warfare in the 21st century </span>**</span>
<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/journals/american_quarterly/v057/57.3yoneyama.html#top|Yoneyama]]</span>__,__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> professor of cultural studies, U.S.-Japan studies, and critical gender studies in the Department of Literature at the University of California, San Diego, 20</span>__05__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> [Lisa, “Liberation under Siege: U.S. Military Occupation and Japanese Women's Enfranchisement, Project Muse – American Quarterly] SM</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">While</span> the pronouncement of <span class="DebateUnderline">Japanese women’s </span><span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">under U.S. power and governmentality</span>.
Specifically, the use of genealogies in security studies is the necessary first step in transforming the language and policies that have produced over a half century of this dichotomous foreign policy.

Der Derian, Prof of Poly Sci at Univ of Massachusetts, 1998
(James. On Security, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard. Columbia International Affairs Online, [[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html]], accessed January 22, 2008)

__What if we leave the desire for mastery__ <span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span><span class="UnderliningChar">contingent nature of international relations.</span>


The judge must use the ballot as an endorsement of topical action such as reducing our military presence. This endorsement of a reduction in presence can change the ethic of intervention that has created a history of conflicts including the current conflict in Libya. This evidence is from this week.
//**<span style="font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal;">Pena, </span>**//**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">senior fellow of The Independent Institute, April 25, 2011</span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Charles, “US too quick to send in military”, McClatchy-Tribune, accessed at http://www.vindy.com/news/2011/apr/25/us-too-quick-to-send-in-military/?newswatch)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The speed with which U.S. military forces </span>__<span style="font-family: Times;"> ……. </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> world cries out for America to intervene.</span>__






==TOC Round 1 Futenma AFF--Climate Change== 
[[#_Toc164521103]]
Advantage [ ] is Climate Change 
The natural disaster in Japan has forced the country to abandon nuclear power as a prominent energy source; Japan will be forced to make a long-term transition to massive investments in alternative energy
__Vivoda<span style="color: black;">, </span>__//<span style="font-weight: normal;">Research Fellow at Griffith Asia Institute, Griffith University, specialising in Asia Pacific energy security</span>//<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">, </span>__<span style="color: black;">April 14,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> 20</span>__<span style="color: black;">11</span>__<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> [</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">Vlado, </span><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/04/14/nuclear-power-in-asia-after-fukushima/|Nuclear power in Asia after Fukushima]],” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/04/14/nuclear-power-in-asia-after-fukushima/] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">The <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">nuclear disaster</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">at Japan’s</span> Fukushima Daiichi ….</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">in alternative and renewable energy.</span></span></span>
<span style="color: black;">Despite successful gains by environmental polices in Japan, more action is needed to expand target goals</span>
__<span style="color: black;">Fox,</span>__ //<span style="font-weight: normal;">Fulbright Fellow at Tunghai University in Taichung, Taiwan, researching sustainable urban development, </span>__April 2__////<span style="font-weight: normal;">, 20</span>__11__// [Benjamin, “<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/04/02/asian-cities-as-low-carbon-catalysts/|Asian cities as low carbon catalysts]],” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/04/02/asian-cities-as-low-carbon-catalysts/] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">As</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the <span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">effects of climate change</span> in Asia <span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">become more obvious</span> every year, <span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">carbon emission reduction policy in the region remains largely inadequate</span></span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">Tokyo city</span> </span></span>
U.S. is key to aid Japan’s transition - synergy in U.S. and Japan energy policies makes cooperation through a stronger alliance vital
<span class="Author-Date">__Calder__</span>, Director of Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, February 1, <span class="Author-Date">20__10__ [</span>Kent E. “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.‐JAPAN COOPERATION”, <<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]]</span>] SM
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Active <span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">U.S.</span></span><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">‐</span><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">Japan cooperation</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> …</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">and do to the configuration of embedded political interests in both countries.</span></span></span>
[[#_Toc161382676]][[#_Toc161296913]][[#_Toc161296859]]
Advanced technological cooperation is key to promote the transition away from prominent fossil fuel sources in Asian countries – Japan needs to take the lead 
__Loh__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, founder and CEO of Hong Kong-based public policy think tank, Civic Exchange, </span>__and Tay__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, member of the Editorial Board of Global Asia and Chairman of the Singapore Institute of International Affairs (SIIA), 20</span>__07__
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">[Global Asia, </span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">Christine and Simon, “Marshalling Asia to Act,” http://globalasia.org/articles/issue4/iss4_3.html] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Advanced technology will be</span> a …</span>a consensus on the science of climate change.</span>

Japanese leadership is the necessary precondition for any attempt to solving global warming
<span class="Author-Date">__Gardels__</span>__,__ editor of New Perspectives Quarterly, published on behalf of The Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, and contributor to Global Viewpoint, June 19, 20**__0<span class="Author-Date">8</span>__**, [Nathan “Japan Poised to Be the Global Green Leader”, Lexis] SM
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">TOKYO -- Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda's announcement that Japan will cut carbon emissions by 60 to 80 percent by 2050 sets a serious …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taking Japan's lead, the whole planet would be wise to adopt that frugal sensibility, living intelligently instead of wastefully.</span></span></span>

**Unabated climate change collapses civilization**
**__Figueres,__** Executive Secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, February 15, 20**__11__**
[Christiana, Security Address to the Congress of Deputies of Spain at the Centro Superior de Estudios de la Defensa Nacional in Madrid,” http://climateprogress.org/2011/02/15/food-crisis-climate-change-figueres/] SM 
In its context, it is alarming to admit that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">if</span> the <span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">community of nations is unable to</span> fully <span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">stabilize climate change</span>, <span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: silver none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">it</span> will threaten where we can …..of climate change could overwhelm any single country’s ability to defend against it, let alone pay the cost to do so. </span>

==New NDCA Advantages [for Futenma Aff]== 

===Round 1 v. Marquette=== 

<span class="Tag" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Same plan text</span>

<span class="Tag" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">New Inherency Card:</span>

<span class="Tag" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Even the largest natural disaster in Japan’s history can’t change the reality of the basing issue—even though the marines on Okinawa are strategically worthless, failure to withdraw them risks jeopardizing the entirety of our force posture in the region</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Ennis</span>__,__ served on two Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan and worked as a research fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, <span class="Cite">3-25-2011 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [Peter, “White House to Tap Obama’s friend as Pentagon’s Asia Chief,” http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2011/03/white-house-to-tap-obama-friend-as-pentagons-asia-chief.html] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">WISHING IT AWAY: <span class="DebateUnderline">Today, Washington __……__ stability in the region anytime soon.</span></span>

<span class="Tag" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">New Political Instability Advantage:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> The earthquake only delayed the structural problems in the Japanese government—politics will return to normal soon, and the government still needs a solution to long-term political instability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Harris</span>, Ph.D. candidate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, <span class="Cite">3-21-2011</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [Tobia, “Kan Do?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/03/21/kan_do, Foreign Policy] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Recognizing his government's shortcomings in …….. <span class="DebateUnderline">perhaps some good will come of this tragedy</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> And, China is literally brushing ships against Japanese soil to test the government’s resolve—massive political instability gives the perception of weakened resolve—only withdrawing troops from Okinawa can boost the perception of government strength</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Plate</span>__,__ Distinguished Scholar of Asian and Pacific Studies at Loyola Marymount University, <span class="Cite">3-21-2011</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [Japan Times, Tom, “U.S. gesture would reduce risks posed by weak Kan government,” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20110321tp.html ] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Highlighting"><span style="border-style: none; border-width: medium;">Okinawa is the big festering toothache </span></span> …….. credentials as the new U.S. ambassador to Beijing.</span>

<span class="Tag" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">And, plan is key to overcome political stagnation in Japan, removing marine presence puts the alliance on equal footing and gives Kan much needed credibility </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Sharp</span><span class="Tag">, </span><span class="CardChar">staff writer for the Diplomat, </span><span class="Cite">2010</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> Andy, “<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/tokyo-notes/2010/11/30/what-the-okinawa-poll-means/|What the Okinawa Poll Means]]</span>,” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> http://the-diplomat.com/tokyo-notes/2010/11/30/what-the-okinawa-poll-means/] SM </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> But <span class="DebateUnderline">given China's increasing dominance </span> …….. have tied Kan to finding an alternative site for the US base outside of the prefecture.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> And, political instability erodes Japan’s strategic value in the U.S. regional security architecture, encouraging aggressive Chinese expansionism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Kapila</span>, PhD., IR and Strategic Affairs analyst,<span class="Cite"> 2010 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [<span class="CardChar">Subhas, “Japan’s Political Instability & Its Strategic Impact,” pg online @ <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.southasiaanalysis.org/papers39/paper3848.html]]</span>] SM</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> North East Asia comprises the region China-Taiwan- Japan …….. an independent military posture. That could impinge on the United States too. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> This collapses the security architecture in East Asia, leaving a strategic power vacuum without Japan’s participation – U.S. needs to move towards a more equal alliance to stop Japan’s drift</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Kapila</span>, PhD., IR and Strategic Affairs analyst,<span class="Cite"> 2010 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [<span class="CardChar">Subhas, “Japan’s Political Instability & Its Strategic Impact,” pg online @ <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.southasiaanalysis.org/papers39/paper3848.html]]</span>] SM</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> More seriously, <span class="Highlighting"><span style="border-style: none; border-width: medium;">Japanese insecurities<span style="border: medium none;"> are magnified</span></span></span> …….. <span class="Highlighting"><span style="border-style: none; border-width: medium;">to the strategic discomfiture of the </span><span style="border: 1.5pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline">nited </span><span class="Highlighting"><span style="border: 1.5pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline">tates.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> And, lack of confidence in the U.S. based security architecture decimates U.S. regional dominance—makes Japanese remilitarization, U.S.-China War, Korean instability, and Indo-Pak escalation inevitable</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="TagsChar">__Goh,__</span> Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, <span class="Cite">2008 </span>[Evelyn “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 90%;">The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance …….. as a result of not doing so would appear to be much</span> worse. </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Round 5 v. Lexington EV</span>=== 


<span class="Tag" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Japanese Self Defense Forces Advantage:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> First, the Self-Defense Forces have gained huge momentum after palying a vital role in combating the natural disaster, but further action is needed to expand their role</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Cronin,</span> Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, <span class="Cite">4-11-2011</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 90%;"> [Patrick, “Japan’s New Deal Opportunity,” http://the-diplomat.com/2011/04/11/japans-new-deal-opportunity/2/, ---The Diplomat] SM</span><span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 17px;">While any nuclear renaissance has been put ….. the value of US forces in Japan.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">And, support for the Self-Defense Force existed until American unilateral pressure stifled support—only reversing that doctrine of pressure can clear the way for SDF expansion</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Ennis</span>__,__ served on two Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan and worked as a research fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, 9/1/ <span class="Cite">2010</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [The Iraq War’s damage to US-Japan relations,” http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/09/the-iraq-wars-damage-to-us-japan-relations.html] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The <span class="DebateUnderline">Iraq War</span>, and <span class="DebateUnderline">Koizumi’s support, </span><span class="CardsChar">**…..** </span><span class="DebateUnderline">” in the alliance – a legacy, at least in part, of US policy in Iraq</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> And, the current alliance structure is outdated—withdrawing forces is key to shift towards a more balanced alliance where Japan takes a broader role in its own defense</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Bandow</span>, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, <span class="Cite">2010</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [Cato Institute, Doug, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” March 25] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; margin-left: 0in;">Thus, <span class="DebateUnderline">the issue of fairness to </span><span class="CardsChar">**…..** </span><span class="DebateUnderline">inaction in Okinawa. Then Okinawans finally might gain justice — after 65 long years.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">And, the U.S. marine presence prevents Japanese expansion of the SDF—withdrawal allows Japan to play a larger regional role</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Preble</span>, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, <span class="Cite">2006</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [Christopher, Policy Analysis, No. 566, CATO Institute, “Two Normal Countries: Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship”, April 18, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa566.pdf|__http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa566.pdf__]] ] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> The Bush administration is contemplating a shift in the <span class="CardsChar">**…..** </span> prove inadequate to deal with future security emergencies.97</span>

<span class="Tag" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">The first impact is South China Sea</span>
<span class="Tag" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Expanding the SDF is key to solve Spratly Islands disputes—deters Chinese aggression</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Kurlantzick</span>__,__ Washington Monthly, <span class="Cite">2002 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [Joshua, “Axis of good: the case for remilitarizing Japan,” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1316/is_2002_July-August/ai_90114011/pg_3/?tag=content;col1] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; margin-left: 0in;">What could Japan do to help? It is already <span class="CardsChar">**…..** </span>who previously worked for the Department.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> And, Spratlty Island disputes are heating up—China is asserting claim to the islands and rejecting any form of negotiations—mass amounts of resources at stake makes escalation likely</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">The Economist</span>__,__ February 21, <span class="Cite">2011</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [“A sea of disputes,” [[http://www.economist.com/blogs/banyan/2011/02/south_china_sea|**http://www.economist.com/blogs/banyan/2011/02/south_china_sea**]]] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; margin-left: 0in;">TWO truths about the disputes in the South <span class="CardsChar">**…..** </span>however, that some countries may now be ruing it. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">And, South China conflict causes economic collapse, decimates U.S.-Sino relations and escalates to war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Cossa</span>**,** analyst CSIS**,**<span class="Cite"> 1998 </span></span>
<span class="CardChar" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">[Ralph, “Security Implications of Conflict in the South China Sea: Exploring Potential Triggers of Conflict”, http://www.southchinasea.org/docs/Cossa,%20Security%20Implications%20of%20%20Conflict%20in%20the%20S.ChinaSea.pdf] SM</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">A </span><span class="Highlighting"><span style="border-style: none; border-width: medium;">failure to peacefully resolve the dispute</span></span> <span class="CardsChar">**…..**</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> likely suffer as a consequence.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> And, economic crisis triggers conflict in every area</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="TagsChar">__Ferguson__</span>, Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History, Harvard University,<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> 20</span>__09__ </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> Niall, Foreign Policy, “The Axis of Upheaval,” February 16, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/02/16/the_axis_of_upheaval?page=0,1, last accessed 3.1.10] RG</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">The Bush years have of course revealed <span class="CardsChar">**…..** </span><span class="DebateUnderline"> upheaval looks like an expensive luxury. </span></span>

<span class="Tag" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Next is the Failed States impact—</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> First, expanded SDF capabilities is key to stabilize failing states </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"><span class="Cite">Council</span>,<span class="Cite"> 2010</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> [The Council on Security and Defense Capabilities in the New Era, “Japan’s Visions for Future Security and Defense Capabilities in the New Era: Toward a Peace-Creating Nation,” [[http://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/singi/shin-ampobouei2010/houkokusyo_e.pdf|__http://www.kantei.go.jp/jp/singi/shin-ampobouei2010/houkokusyo_e.pdf__]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Highlighting"><span style="border-style: none; border-width: medium;">The phenomenon of failing </span></span> <span class="CardsChar">**…..** </span><span class="DebateUnderline">accumulation of overseas mission experiences. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">And, failed statues ensure arms races and nuclear war </span>
<span class="Cite" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">African Studies Centre et al, 2003</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;"> (The Transnational Institute, The Center of Social Studies, Coimbra University, and The Peace Research Center – CIP-FUHEM, “Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” December, found at: <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf|__http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf__]])</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%; margin-left: 0in;">In the malign scenario of global <span class="CardsChar">**…..** </span>- could be faced with direct attacks on their national security.</span>




==Bi-Winning Big China Affirmative - TFA State Finals== 
===**Contention One is Inherency**=== 

U.S. hegemony is on the way out in East Asia—American primacy is doomed due to massive debt and military overstretch—rise of other countries like China prove that the geopolitical balance is shifting
The Australian, 2010
The Australian, “As the US Wanes, China Gains,” August 5, Lexis/Nexis, SM
BENEATH the radar, almost TO Strategic and Policy Institute.

And, U.S. hegemony in East Asia is facing a fundamental challenge which it can’t overcome—China is easily beginning to balance U.S. power and limit American options
White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2010
[Hugh, “[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/08/13/the-geostrategic-implications-of-chinas-growth/|The geostrategic implications of China’s growth]] [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/08/13/the-geostrategic-implications-of-chinas-growth/]], August 13, 2010] SM
When the Berlin Wall fell it TO since the 1960s.

And, it’s not a question of whether China is naturally aggressive or not, but instead a question of how the U.S. will respond to China’s rise—the U.S. must accommodate China’s rise and make concessions to prevent East Asian great power wars
White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2010
[Hugh, East Asia Forum, “[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/09/12/the-end-of-american-supremacy/|The end of American supremacy]],” September 12, 2010, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/09/12/the-end-of-american-supremacy/]] ] SM
Asia’s security and TO acceptance of American primacy.

And, China’s challenge is inevitable—even if American primacy were strong, China’s strength makes accommodation necessary
White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2010
[Hugh, East Asia Forum, “[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/09/12/the-end-of-american-supremacy/|The end of American supremacy]],” September 12, 2010, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/09/12/the-end-of-american-supremacy/]] ] SM
Americans find that easy TO process will be a painful one.

===**Contention Two is the Concert of Asia**=== 

First, a stable order in East Asia necessitates an independent Japan—overbearing U.S. influence forces a policy of containment towards China that inevitably risks nuclear war—an independent Japan is the only scenario for a stable regional environment and improved Sino-U.S. relations
- Strong U.S.-China relations are comparatively more important than keeping Japan in check
White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2008
[“Why Japan might have to go nuclear” http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/16/Why-Japan-might-have-to-go-nuclear.aspx] SM
I should have TO That is, at best, a long shot.


And, the U.S.-Japan Alliance is simply outdated—removal of the alliance is key to lay the groundwork for an Asian Concert where China and Japan share a larger piece of the international pie
White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2008
[“The U.S. Needs to Change its Asia Policy” http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2010/03/12/Why-the-US-needs-to-change-its-Asia-policy.aspx] SM
I expect that as TOwill not work in future.

And, withdrawal now creates a co-equal presence within the alliance by allowing Japan to become more independent—China’s rise makes Japanese insecurity inevitable, weakening the alliance and guaranteeing future conflict
- Japan nuclearization, insecurity, etc., inevitable even if the U.S. tries to sustain its primacy
White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2008
[“[[http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/23/Japans-nukes-A-response-to-Green.aspx|Japan's nukes: A response to Green]]
http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/23/Japans-nukes-A-response-to-Green.aspx] SM
Michael Green’s characteristically TO China has changed so much.

We’ll isolate several impacts - first is relations 

China’s rise is fostering a military rivalry that overshadows any success on the peninsula - plan is key
Putten, is a research fellow with the Clingendael Institue in The Hague, December 21, 2010 [Frans-Paul van der, “Sino-US geopolitical rivalry does not help Korean stability,” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/12/21/sino-us-geopolitical-rivalry-does-not-help-korean-stability/] SM
"The United Stages government ... peninsula"

And--Cooperation on North Korea is essential to avoid Currency Wars – it sets the tone for US China Cooperation on other issuesSica, Chief Investment Officer of SICA Wealth Management, Nov 27 2010 [“Forbes What the Conflict on the Korean Peninsula Means to the World Economy [[http://blogs.forbes.com/jeffreysica/2010/11/27/spirit-of-freedom-what-the-conflict-on-the-korean-]] peninsula-means-to-the-world-economy/?boxes=financechannelforbes] SM
"The U.S. market fell ... defensive position"

Chinese Currency Conflicts cause a slippery slope to protectionism and trade warThe Globe and Mail September 30, 2010 [Congress flexes muscle over China's yuan; U.S. politicians set stage to allow companies to seek retribution for lost sales due to underpriced imports BYLINE: KEVIN CARMICHAEL Staff Lexis]
"U.S. lawmakers ... in Toronto"

Trade conflict causes Chinese retaliation destabilizing both currencies into global market stability that causes another wave of deep recessionDNA News, 09(Venkatesan Vembu, DNA India staff news, “US-China trade war a ‘big risk’”, http://www.dnaindia.com/money/report_us-china-trade-war-a-big-risk_1309957)"Escalating trade ... next year"
Trade wars cause global war Spicer, Olin Foundation, 1996 (The Challenge from the East and the Rebirth of the West, p. 121)

Second is U.S. China War

Current structure of the Cold War U.S. Japan alliance makes war with China inevitable – it features a direct containment policy through sustained military presence that China perceives as U.S inevitably invading Taiwan with
Yuan, research director of the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies in California, & associate professor of international policy studies 2005 [Jing-dong, “China Seethes at U.S.-Japan ‘meddling’” February, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/GB24Ad01.html] SM"Over the years .. nuclear weapons"

We don’t have to win China will overtake U.S. but just that it will try – this will devastate the region ensuring great power wars – withdrawal is key 
White, professor of Strategic Studies @ the Australian National University & Visiting Fellow at the Lowy Institute, January 10, 2011 [Hugh, The Australian Financial Review, “Superpower China won’t settle for second] SM 
"Central foreign policy question ... defend this position"

Delay now risks power vacuum later – withdrawal now stabilizes the region and convinces China cooperation is preferable to expansion 
White, is professor of Strategic Studies @ the Australian National University & Visiting Fellow at the Lowy Institute, December 26, 2010 [Hugh, “Negotiating the China Challenge,” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/12/26/negotiating-the-china-challenge/] SM
"Growing power ... inevitably fear"

U.S. China war leads to World War III 
Hunkovic, American Military University, 09 [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]] SM

East Asia is the most explosive region in the world – the common factor in all scenarios for escalation is China Kapila, IR and Strategic Affairs analyst - Consultant, Strategic Affairs with South Asia Analysis Group, 2009 [Dr. Subhash ,“EAST ASIA STRATEGIC CALCULUS: THE CHINA-NORTH KOREA THREAT”, South Asia Analysis Group, Paper No. 3250, 12 June 2009, [[http://www.southasiaanalysis.org/%5Cpapers33%5Cpaper3250.html]]] SM
"East Asia ... flashpoints"


===**Contention Three is the NPT**=== 


U.S. guarantee to protect Japan’s security is the foundation of Japan’s decision to forego nuclear capabilities
Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, 2009 [Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]] SM
"Perhaps the single ... strategic ambiguity"

And history proves, U.S. extended deterrence is only credible due to U.S. troops and the tripwire effect – only the removal of troops can trigger Japanese nuclearization 
Nye, Professor of International Relations at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, previously served as the dean there, 2009 Joseph S., Jr., Korea Times, “Will US-Japan alliance survive?,” July 14, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2009/07/137_48423.html [RG]
"Japan officially ... relations with Asia"

U.S. withdrawal forces Japan to withdraw from the NPT and develop its own nuclear deterrent, Japan’s strategy of nuclear hedging means Japan goes nuclear fast [[http://muse.jhu.edu.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/journals/international_security/v027/27.3levite.html#top|Levite]], a Visiting Fellow at the Center for International Security and Cooperation (CISAC) at Stanford University, 2003 [Ariel E., “Never Say Never Again,” International Security] SM 
"Japan provides ... the United States"

Japanese proliferation crushes the NPT
Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, and Nikitin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, CRS Report for Congress, 2009Emma, and Mary Beth, Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19, italy.usembassy.gov/pdf/other/RL34487.pdf, last accessed 9.1.10 [RG]
"While Japanese public opinion ... UN Security Council"

NPT encourages opaque proliferation breeding miscalculation, transnational smuggling networks and nuclear terrorism
Wesley, Ph.D. in IR @ University of St. Andrews in Scotland and Executive Director of the Lowy Institute, 2005[Michael 'It's time to scrap the NPT', Australian Journal of International Affairs, 59:3, 283 – 299] SM
"By prohibiting proliferation ... radiological weapons "

Nuclear terrorism leads to World War III Mohamd, Sid Ahmed, Political Analyst, 04 [Mohamed, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]]

===Contention Four is Solvency=== 

First, American primacy can no longer guarantee stability—the fate of East Asia is now in the hand of other Asian powers
Cook et al., East Asia Program Director, Lowry Institute, PhD in IR from ANU, 2010[Lowy Institute, “Power and Choice: Asian Security Futures,” June,Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the LowyInstitute for International Policy in Sydney, Rory Medcalf, the International Security Program Director at the Lowy Institute, Raoul Heinrichs is a Research Associate at the Lowy Institute] SM
For decades now TO analysis that follows.

And, East Asian stability doesn’t need American hegemony—a concert of Asian powers solves conflict through economic interdependence and commitment towards resolving common threats
Cook et al., East Asia Program Director, Lowry Institute, PhD in IR from ANU, 2010[Lowy Institute, “Power and Choice: Asian Security Futures,” June,Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the LowyInstitute for International Policy in Sydney, Rory Medcalf, the International Security Program Director at the Lowy Institute, Raoul Heinrichs is a Research Associate at the Lowy Institute] SM
What is clear is that TO and institution-building.

And, an Asian concert uniquely reduces the risk of war
Cook et al., East Asia Program Director, Lowry Institute, PhD in IR from ANU, 2010[Lowy Institute, “Power and Choice: Asian Security Futures,” June,Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the LowyInstitute for International Policy in Sydney, Rory Medcalf, the International Security Program Director at the Lowy Institute, Raoul Heinrichs is a Research Associate at the Lowy Institute] SM
A concert of powers is TOto that objective,

And, we’ll get a head start on the proliferation debate
No arms races in East Asia—plan allows space for other countries to fill in and balance other powers, leads to regional stability
Bandow, Senior Fellow, CATO, former Special Assistant to President Reagan, 2006[[[http://spectator.org/archives/2006/06/28/shifting-defense-responsibilit|Shifting Defense Responsibilities to Japan]],” http://spectator.org/archives/2006/06/28/shifting-defense-responsibilit/print]SM
Tokyo's growing assertiveness TO protecting their own interests.






==<span style="font-size: 25px; line-height: 38px;">Japan Affirmative - Berkeley</span>== 

The United States federal government should close down Futenma Air Station, including the withdrawal of the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force from Japan, excluding the withdrawal of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit. Requisite funding and enforcement provided.

===**Contention One is Inherency**=== 
There is no “getting around the Futenma problem” any measure short of the plan will fail to resolve the thaw in U.S. Japan relations 
Snieder, associate director of the Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford University, January 14, 2011 [Daniel, “Getting Real on Japan,” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/14/getting_real_on_japan?page=0,1]SM
----As for the base issue .... more equal relationship.

The gubernatorial election is far from a U.S. victory; the U.S. massively underestimates Okinawan discontent over relocation, which will gut future cooperation 
Ennis, served on two Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, and worked as a research fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, November 29, 2010 [Peter, “Okinawa: Why the Nakaima Win Spells Trouble,” http://www.dispatchjapan.com] SM 
---Sighs of relief ... U.S. marines on Okinawa

===**Contention Two is the Hollow Alliance**=== 

Erosion of the current alliance is inevitable – it will collapse in an ever-changing security environment due to its weak foundation 
Finnegan, Senior Research Associate at The National Bureau of Asian, November 2009 [Michael, National Bureau of Asian Research, “Managing Unmet Expectations in the U.S.-Japan Alliance, “] SM 
---The U.S. Japan alliance ... confidence could occur.

The alliance is structurally strong but functionally weak – a new bargain on Japanese security is key 
Finnegan, Senior Research Associate at The National Bureau of Asian Research, 2009, [Michael, National Bureau on Asian Research, “Managing Unmet expectations in the U.S.-Japan Alliance”] SM 
---Although the two partners ... Japanese security.

A more independent Japan is the difference between a hollow Alliance versus a twenty first century partnership re-tooled for national security, plan is a pre-requisite for cooperation in any area
Finnegan, Senior Research Associate at The National Bureau of Asian Research, 2010 [Michael, “Return to Basics: Recalibrating the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance,”] SM 
---What next then ... defense of Japan.

Power sharing provides the framework for a super alliance, solving all East Asian challenges ranging from China, North Korea, South China Sea, to the Middle East 
Rapp, a Lieutenant Colonel (P) in the U.S. Army, Council on Foreign Relations- Hitachi International Affairs Fellow at the Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, January 2004 [William E., “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance,”] SM
---Using the alliance ... stability to the region.



==== ==== 
====Scenario [ ] is U.S. China War==== 
The alliance can only deter China and maintain regional stability if it is operationally capable, reducing the excessive military burden on Okinawa is necessary to evolve the current security framework 
Funabashi, Editor-in-Chief of the Asahi Shimbun in Tokyo, February 12, 2010 [East Asia Forum, Yoichi , “Urgent need for 21st century vision of US-Japan alliance,” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/12/urgent-need-for-21st-century-vision-of-us-japan-alliance/] SM
---Joseph ... miracle of modern history.


And, China would perceive a weakness in the alliance—leads to conflict over Taiwan
Okamoto, president of Okamoto Associates, Inc, and a special adviser to the cabinet and chairman of the Japanese prime minister’s Task Force on Foreign Relations, 2002 [Yukio, Washington Quarterly, “Japan and the United States: The Essential Alliance,” Spring] SM
---Opinion is divided ... negotiated solution.


And, full scale U.S.-China war escalates and goes nuclear—despite all shared interests between the U.S. and China, tensions over Taiwan outweigh and other “core” interests outweigh
Bush, Director, Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, Senior Fellow, Brookings, and O’Hanlon, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Brookings, 2007 [Richard, and Michael E., A WAR LIKE NO OTHER: THE THRUTH ABOUT CHINA’S CHALLENGE TO AMERICA, John Wiley & Sons, pp.99-101 [RG
---War between China and Taiwan ... reality.


And, deterrence is absolutely necessary—China’s rising now—aggressive policies ensure they go after Taiwan and other “core” interests—this isn’t a link to your kritik, this is the truth
Lee, is a foreign-policy fellow at the Centre for Independent Studies in Sydney, a visiting scholar at the Hudson Institute in Washington and the author of [John "Will China Fail” China's Rise and the Road to War” August 5, 2010[[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703748904575410580240721848.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]] SM 
---Four years ... imagination.

====Scenario [ ] is Warming==== 

There’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic 
Rahmstorf, Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 2008 [Stefan, Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49] SM 

It is time ... statistical techniques.

First, Japanese leadership is the necessary precondition for any attempt to solving global warming – gets China and India on board 
Gardels, editor of New Perspectives Quarterly, published on behalf of The Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, and contributor to Global Viewpoint, June 19, 2008, [Nathan “Japan Poised to Be the Global Green Leader”, Lexis | SM
Tokyo ... instead of wastefully. 


Second, U.S.-Japan cooperation required to effectively address warming—sets a precedent for clean energy in Asia
Patel, a research associate, specializing in Asian affairs, at the [[http://www.cnas.org/|Center for a New American Security]]. December 7 2007 World Politics Review, [ Nirav “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,” [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation]],”) SM
Historically ... stability and security. 


Runaway warming collapse civilization – controlling the rate of warming prevents irreversible tipping points in the form of sea level rise and global starvation
Brown, Masters in AE from Maryland and Masters in Econ from Harvard, Director and 
Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S 2008 [Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”] SM
In 2004 ... these extreme stresses.

====Scenario [ ] is Contingency Planning==== 

Collapse of North Korea is inevitable—regime change will inevitably follow, the question is what kind—failure to plan for contingency operations risks an abrupt unification, inciting Korean War 
Cronin, Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program, Center for New American Security, 2011 
Patrick, The Diplomat, “The Dangers of Korean Unification,” February 10, http://the-diplomat.com/2011/02/10/the-dangers-of-korean-unification/2/, last accessed 2.11.11 [SM]
While the popular uprisings ... that we ever expected.

Unfortunately contingency planning is not taking place—trilateral contingency planning must involve how to effectively utilize the alliance in times of crisis 
Tanaka, senior fellow at the [[http://www.jcie.or.jp/|Japan Center for International Exchange]] (JCIE) and chairman of the Institute for International Strategy, January 31, 2011 
[Hitoshi, [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/31/rethinking-our-approach-to-the-korean-crisis/|Rethinking our approach to the Korean crisis]],” [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/31/rethinking-our-approach-to-the-korean-crisis/]]] SM
Trilateral cooperation ... military provocations. 

Seoul-Tokyo bilateral ties are critical to develop future contingency operations on the peninsula; Japan and South Korea can reinforce deterrence, increase intelligence mechanisms and bilateral cooperation
Sahashi, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Faculty of Law at Kanagawa University and an Adjunct Research Fellow at the Japan Center for International Exchange, February 9, 2011 
[“Ryo, “North Korea: Why Seoul-Tokyo cooperation is necessary,” http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/02/09/north-korea-why-seoul-tokyo-cooperation-is-necessary/] SM
Over the last two decades ... for a long time. 

Disputes over Futenma are fracturing the alliance and preventing Japan from taking on a larger security role in East Asia and increasing ties with South Korea—the plan is key to make Japan a major player in East Asia 
Hayashi and Barnes, Wall Street Journal, 2011 
[Yuka, Julian E “WSJ: US Defense Secretary Gates Goes To Rally Japan After China Visit,” http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110112-713190.html,] SM

And, failure to adequately plan for reunification decimates the global economy 
Pesek, Bloomberg news columnist, December 2, 2010 
Korean reunification: Over 30 years, who will foot $5 trillion bill?” http://www.oregonlive.com/opinion/index.ssf/2010/12/korean_reunification_over_30_y.html] SM
Whole card. 

And, economic crisis triggers conflict in every area 
Ferguson, Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History, Harvard University, 2009 
Niall, Foreign Policy, “The Axis of Upheaval,” February 16, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/02/16/the_axis_of_upheaval?page=0,1, last accessed 3.1.10, RG)

==== ==== 
====Scenario [ ] is Sustainability==== 


First, strengthened U.S.-Japan cooperation solves water security, climate change, and offers a comprehensive solution to forge a path a way from oil dependence 
Cronin et al., Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the 
Center for a New American Security, October 2010 
[Patrick M, Daniel M. Kliman is a Visiting Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. Abraham M. Denmark is a Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, Center for New American Security, “Revitalizing the U.S. Japan Alliance,”] SM

With two of the world's leading ... America's own capabilities. 

And, oil dependence inevitably causes war, disease, famine, and inequality 
Heinberg, Senior Fellow Post-Carbon Institute & awarded the M King Hubbert award for excellence and energy education, 2007 (Peak Everything, Pg. 19-22)
As we have seen ... and other scenarios. 

And oil will peak soon, Saudi Arabia proves—plan is key to signal a shift away from oil 
Simmons, Chairman and CEO of Simmons & Company 2005 
(Matthew R., , a Houston based investment bank that specializes in the energy industry, serves on the boards of Brown-Forman Corporation and the Atlantic Council, member of the National Petroleum Council and the Council on Foreign Relations, MBA Harvard University, former energy adviser to President George W. Bush, Twilight in the Desert: The Coming Saudi Oil Shock and the World Economy, 2005, John Wiley & Sons, Inc, Hoboken, New Jersey, Pg. XIV-XV)
To its great credit ... almost inevitable. 


And, water scarcity threatens survival of the human race—multiple reasons 
Barlow, National Chairperson, Council of Canadians, Chair, IFG Committee on the Globalization of Water, 2001 
Maude, “Blue Gold – The Global Water Crisis and the Commodification of the World’s Water Supply,” Spring, [[http://www.canadians.org/water/documents/blue_gold-e.pdf]], last accessed 11.20.09]
At the millennium ... damaged ecosystems. 


Asia is key – unstable resources ensure droughts and ecological destabilization 
Sachs, director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University and of the U.N. Millennium Project.2006, [Jeffrey D,“The Challenge of Sustainable Water,” December http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=the-challenge-of-sustaina, ] SM
While oil shortages ... destabilization elsewhere. 


===**Contention Three is Solvency**=== 

First, Futenma makes future cooperation with Japan impossible­—the Japanese public becomes disillusioned with the Alliance and distracted from more important issues—now is the key time to revitalize the Alliance 
Smith, Senior fellow for Japan Studies, Council on Foreign Relations, July 28, 2010, [ Sheila A. “Successful U.S.-Japan Agenda Must Meet Public Expectations,” [[http://e.nikkei.com/e/fr/tnks/Nni20100728D28JF008.htm]]) SM 
---Adapting this relationship ... U.S. Japan partnership.

Plan is key to overcome political stagnation in Japan, removing marine presence puts the alliance on equal footing and gives Kan much needed credibility 
Sharp, staff writer for the Diplomat, November 30, 2010, [Andy, “[[http://the-diplomat.com/tokyo-notes/2010/11/30/what-the-okinawa-poll-means/|What the Okinawa Poll Means]],” 
---http://the-diplomat.com/tokyo-notes/2010/11/30/what-the-okinawa-poll-means/] SM
But given ... outside of the prefecture 

Disputes over Futenma are fracturing the alliance and preventing Japan from taking on a larger security role in East Asia, the plan is key to make Japan a major player in East Asia
Hayashi and Barnes, Wall Street Journal, January 12, 2011 [Yuka, Julian E “WSJ: US Defense Secretary Gates Goes To Rally Japan After China Visit,” http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110112-713190.html,] SM
---U.S. defense secretary ... in the way they have.

And, it’s not a question of whether the Alliance will collapse or not, it’s a question of whether the Alliance is effective—Futenma prevents any substantive cooperation from occurring – closing the base aids the transition towards a alliance that prioritizes multi-lateral issues 
Foster, a former State Department official, and Kanak, a former president and chairman of the A.C.C.J, September 15, 2010 [Jim, Don, NYT, “A Reset in Japan-U.S. Relations? [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/16/opinion/16iht-edfoster.html?_r=1&ref=global]]] SM
---Now with this financial crisis ... American will benefit.




==Japan Affirmative - Emory== 

The United States federal government should close down Futenma Air Station, including the withdrawal of the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force from Japan, excluding the withdrawal of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit. Requisite funding and enforcement provided. 



Contention [One] is the Hollow Alliance 

First, status quo relocation plans for Futenma Air Station are deadlocked due to failed political leadership and public discontent—this strains the U.S.-Japan Alliance 
Sakai, researcher, writer and editor of Tanaka News ([[http://www.tanakanews.com/|www.tanakanews.com]]), a Japanese-language news service on Japan and the world, August 6, 2010 [ Tanaka, The Asia Pacific Journal, "How Long Will US Forces Continue to Occupy Japan and Korea? China, the US and the New Division of Power in the Asia-Pacific," The Asia-Pacific Journal, 33-1-10, August 16, 2010http:www.japanfocus.org/-Tanaka-Sakai/3401] SM 
During the former administration of Hatoyama Yukio, Japan tried to break its dependence on the US and shift to a new system based on cooperating with China. But in the … difficult to do so.

And, the Alliance is failing now—Futenma dominates the agenda, crowding out all other bilateral security issues 
Tasumi, Writer for Center for Security Studies July 27, 2010 [Yuki,“Japan’s Drift and Its Implications for the U.S.-Japan Alliance,” [[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Current-Affairs/Security-Watch/Detail/?lng=en&id=119345]]] SM
However, the political atmosphere …. the US, and the entire international community. 

[[#_Toc141422198]]
J.E. Dyer, journalist and former intelligence analyst, who served internationally for US Naval intelligence from 1983 to 2004 March 11, 2010 “Past Time to Rethink Our Approach to Japan,” [[http://hotair.com/greenroom/archives/2010/03/11/past-time-to-rethink-our-approach-to-japan/]]” ) SM
But the current situation … current conditions to what will. 


Controversy over Futenma gutted Obama’s recent attempts at cooperation – Asian summit proves 
Smith, Senior fellow for Japan Studies, Council on Foreign Relations, November 15, 2010 [Before Exiting Asia, “Obama’s subdued Summit” http://www.cfr.org/publication/23405/before_exiting_asia_obamas_subdued_summit.html] SM 
Expectations that this second … the Asian security agenda this year.





Contention [Two] is Deterrence 

First is the uniqueness for our impacts—recent Chinese naval aggression into the South China Seas is destabilizing the region—strong deterrence by the U.S. is key to reverse this 
Crospey, writer for the Council on Foreign Relations, September 27, 2010 [Seth, “Keeping the Pacific Pacific,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66752/seth-cropsey/keeping-the-pacific-pacific?page=2]SM
China's path to regional … perimeter of the East China Sea.

And, only the Aff solves—resolving the Futenma dispute is key to stronger dialogue between Obama and Kan—this dialogue strengthens the alliance, solving for South China Sea dispute escalation
Ennis, U.S.correspondent for Tokyo, September 21, 2010 [ Peter, Japan Dispatch “[[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/09/biden-prods-complacent-washington-on-vital-us-japan-alliance.html|Biden prods complacent Washington on vital US-Japan alliance]],” [[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/futenma/]] ] SM 
Could the Obama administration …for the vision to be realized. 

And, a healthy alliance is the backbone of deterrence in East Asia—weakening of the Alliance guarantees multiple flashpoints for war 
Richard L. Armitage et al., 2000 Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)
Asia, in the throes of historic …global security strategy. 

And, regional stability rests on a strong U.S. commitment to East Asia—lack of confidence undercuts U.S. leadership, causes Japanese rearmament, Indo-Pak war, and Korean instability 
Evelyn Goh, Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database] SM
The centrality of these … to be much worse. 

And, South China Sea conflict causes economic collapse, decimates U.S.-Sino relations and culminates in war 
Cossa, analyst CSIS, 1998 [Ralph, “Security Implications of Conflict in the South China Sea: Exploring Potential Triggers of Conflict”,http://www.southchinasea.org/docs/Cossa,%20Security%20Implications%20of%20%20Conflict%20in%20the%20S.ChinaSea.pdf] SM
A failure to peacefully … likely suffer as a consequence. 

And, China would perceive a weakness in the alliance—leads to conflict over Taiwan
Okamoto, president of Okamoto Associates, Inc, and a special adviser to the cabinet and chairman of the Japanese prime minister’s Task Force on Foreign Relations, 2002
[Yukio, Washington Quarterly, “Japan and the United States: The Essential Alliance,” Spring] SM
Opinion is divided …to a negotiated solution. 

And, full scale U.S.-China war escalates and goes nuclear—despite all shared interests between the U.S. and China, tensions over Taiwan outweigh and other “core” interests outweigh
Bush, Director, Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, Senior Fellow, Brookings, and O’Hanlon, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Brookings, 2007 
Richard, and Michael E., A WAR LIKE NO OTHER: THE THRUTH ABOUT CHINA’S CHALLENGE TO AMERICA, John Wiley & Sons, pp.99-101 [RG]
War between China … a China-Taiwan war.


And, deterrence is absolutely necessary—China’s rising now—aggressive policies ensure they go after Taiwan and other “core” interests—this isn’t a link to your kritik, this is the truth 
John Lee is a foreign-policy fellow at the Centre for Independent Studies in Sydney, a visiting scholar at the Hudson Institute in Washington and the author of "Will China Fail” China's Rise and the Road to War” August 5, 2010 
[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703748904575410580240721848.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]) SM 
Four years before World War I, … same failure of imagination. 

Contention [Three] is Cooperation 

First, Futenma makes future cooperation with Japan impossible­—the Japanese public becomes disillusioned with the Alliance and distracted from more important issues—now is the key time to revitalize the Alliance to solve for North Korean instability 
Smith, Senior fellow for Japan Studies, Council on Foreign Relations, July 28, 2010, [ Sheila A. “Successful U.S.-Japan Agenda Must Meet Public Expectations,” [[http://e.nikkei.com/e/fr/tnks/Nni20100728D28JF008.htm]]) SM
Adapting this relationship … confident U.S.-Japan partnership. 


And, it’s not a question of whether the Alliance will collapse or not, it’s a question of whether the Alliance is effective—Futenma prevents any substantive cooperation from occurring—closing the base increases the U.S. and Japan’s ability to solve status quo issues 
Foster, a former State Department official, and Kanak, a former president and chairman of the A.C.C.J, September 15, 2010 [Jim, Don, NYT, “A Reset in Japan-U.S. Relations? [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/16/opinion/16iht-edfoster.html?_r=1&ref=global]]] SM 
Now, with the financial crisis subsiding…America will benefit.

We’ll isolate two scenarios for cooperation between Japan and the U.S. 

First is North Korean aggression—failure to denuclearize the Peninsula results in miscalaculation, leading to an arms race and nuclear war 
Hayes, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, and Hamel-Green, Executive Dean, Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, 2009 
Peter, and Michael, Nautilus Institute, “The path not taken, the way still open: denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” September 18,
http://www.nautilus.org/projects/A-J-disarm/research-workshop/drafts/hayes-hamel-green.pdf/view?searchterm=rmit, last accessed 9.23.10 [RG]
The international community is … the international community. 


Scenario two is global warming 

First, U.S.-Japan cooperation required to effectively address warming—sets a precedent for clean energy in Asia 
Nirav Patel, a research associate, specializing in Asian affairs, at the [[http://www.cnas.org/|Center for a New American Security]]. December 7 2007 World Politics Review, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,” [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation]],”) SM 
Historically, U.S.-Japan relations…, stability and security. 


Strengthened U.S. Japan cooperation within the alliance solves water security, climate change, and offers a comprehensive solution to forge a path a way from oil dependence, 
Cronin et al., Senior Advisor and the Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security, October 2010
[Patrick M, Daniel M. Kliman is a Visiting Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. Abraham M. Denmark is a Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, Center for New American Security, “Revitalizing the U.S. Japan Alliance,”] SM 
With two of the world’s …America’s own capabilities.68 


And, there’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic 
Stefan Rahmstorf, Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 2008 (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)
It is time to turn to statement B: human activities are altering the climate. This can be broken into two parts. The first is as follows: global climate is warming. This is by … we need to deal.


And, now is the key time—action must be taken to avoid irreversible tipping points 
John P. Holdren is professor of environmental policy at Harvard University and director of the Woods Hole Research Center. He is also co-chair of the independent National Commission on Energy Policy, October 2008, “The Future of Climate Change Policy: The U.S.'s Last Chance to Lead, Scientific American”,) SM 
The ongoing disruption … hope for averting global climate catastrophe._ 


And, global warming kills billions—leads to extinction 
Cummins, International Director, Organic Consumers Association, and Allen, Policy Advisor, Organic Consumers Association, 2010 
Ronnie, and Will, Common Dreams, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century,” February 14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6, last accessed 10.17.10 [RG]
The hour is late. Leading climate …, heat, disease, war, and starvation. 

Contention [Four] is Solvency 

First, Futenma is an immediate threat to U.S.-Japan relations—only closing the base can solve tensions and stop future protests from straining the Alliance 
[[#_Toc141294656]]
”Okinawa and the New Domino Effect,” [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html]], ) SM 
The immediate source of tension in …government in Tokyo into a corner. 

And, Futenma has no strategic value—closing it solves future protest movements from spilling over to pressure on other bases 
Mochizuki and O’Hanlon, , is Associate Dean of the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and holds the Japan-US Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur. Michael O’Hanlon, Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, is author of The Science of War. “A proposed compromise on Futenma The unnecessary crisis, 2010 January Mike Mochizuki” THE ORIENTAL ECONOMIST http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=32&ved=0CDUQFjABOB4&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.gwu.edu%2F~elliott%2Fassets%2Fdocs%2Fnews%2Fmochizuki_futenma_orientalEconomist_0110.pdf&ei=tP8gTMnVCYaDnQfKjdVf&usg=AFQjCNFKUnjurrUisw0LtFv1LQ-7PrX5cg&sig2=QHHKqwcaJTnvLAPzK0mP-Q 
What then should be … of the US- Japan Security Treaty. 

And, put away your disads—U.S. deterrence in East Asia is based solely off of Yokosuka and Kadena—U.S. marines serve no defensive purpose 
Peter Ennis, a US correspondent of Weekly Tokyo Keizai, a Japanese business journal. His insights based on the background interviews with the key players are noteworthy. February 2008, 2010, NBR, “National Bureau of Asian Research, A US-based think tank on Asian policis “Peter Ennis on Futenma and Alliance,” http://nbrforums.nbr.org/foraui/message.aspx?LID=5&MID=36602) SM 
[[#2152554098012994333]]MARINES AND DETERRENCE: Working … to get out of this?


==<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Better Red Than Dead Affirmative - MBA Octos**</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United States federal government should withdraw nearly all of United States Forces, Japan from Japan. We’ll clarify.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention One is Inherency</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">U.S. hegemony is on the way out in East Asia—American primacy is doomed due to massive debt and military overstretch—rise of other countries like China prove that the geopolitical balance is shifting</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Australian, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Australian, “As the US Wanes, China Gains,” August 5, Lexis/Nexis, SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">BENEATH the radar, almost TO Strategic and Policy Institute.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, U.S. hegemony in East Asia is facing a fundamental challenge which it can’t overcome—China is easily beginning to balance U.S. power and limit American options</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Hugh, “<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/08/13/the-geostrategic-implications-of-chinas-growth/|The geostrategic implications of China’s growth]] [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2009/08/13/the-geostrategic-implications-of-chinas-growth/]]</span>, August 13, 2010] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">When the Berlin Wall fell it TO since the 1960s.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, it’s not a question of whether China is naturally aggressive or not, but instead a question of how the U.S. will respond to China’s rise—the U.S. must accommodate China’s rise and make concessions to prevent East Asian great power wars</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Hugh, East Asia Forum, “<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/09/12/the-end-of-american-supremacy/|The end of American supremacy]]</span>,” September 12, 2010, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/09/12/the-end-of-american-supremacy/]]</span> ] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Asia’s security and TO acceptance of American primacy.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, China’s challenge is inevitable—even if American primacy were strong, China’s strength makes accommodation necessary</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Hugh, East Asia Forum, “<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/09/12/the-end-of-american-supremacy/|The end of American supremacy]]</span>,” September 12, 2010, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/09/12/the-end-of-american-supremacy/]]</span> ] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Americans find that easy TO process will be a painful one.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention Two is the Concert of Asia</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, a stable order in East Asia necessitates an independent Japan—overbearing U.S. influence forces a policy of containment towards China that inevitably risks nuclear war—an independent Japan is the only scenario for a stable regional environment and improved Sino-U.S. relations</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">- Strong U.S.-China relations are comparatively more important than keeping Japan in check</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2008</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[“Why Japan might have to go nuclear” http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/16/Why-Japan-might-have-to-go-nuclear.aspx] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I should have TO That is, at best, a long shot.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, the U.S.-Japan Alliance is simply outdated—removal of the alliance is key to lay the groundwork for an Asian Concert where China and Japan share a larger piece of the international pie</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2008</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[“The U.S. Needs to Change its Asia Policy” http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2010/03/12/Why-the-US-needs-to-change-its-Asia-policy.aspx] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I expect that as TOwill not work in future.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, withdrawal now creates a co-equal presence within the alliance by allowing Japan to become more independent—China’s rise makes Japanese insecurity inevitable, weakening the alliance and guaranteeing future conflict</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">- Japan nuclearization, insecurity, etc., inevitable even if the U.S. tries to sustain its primacy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">White, Fellow at the Lowry Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2008</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[“<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/23/Japans-nukes-A-response-to-Green.aspx|Japan's nukes: A response to Green]]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/23/Japans-nukes-A-response-to-Green.aspx] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Michael Green’s characteristically TO China has changed so much.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We’ll isolate several impacts</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First is relations—U.S.-Sino relations are key to global peace—the U.S. must accommodate China’s rise to avoid extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Zhou, Assistant Professor in the Department of Asian Languages and Cultures at Hobart and William Smith Colleges, 2008</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">NY -- Dr. Jinghao, Does China’s Rise Threaten the United States? Asian Perspective, Vol. 32, No. 3, 2008, pp. 171-182</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third, there are many TOglobal issues.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, only U.S.-China relations can curb global carbon emissions—cooperation is key</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Lieberthal, Fellow, Brookings Institution, and Sandalow, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 2009</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/experts/lieberthalk.aspx|Kenneth G. Lieberthal]]</span>, Visiting Fellow, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/foreign-policy.aspx|Foreign Policy]]</span>, David B. Sandalow, Senior Fellow, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/foreign-policy.aspx|Foreign Policy]]</span> Wednesday September 23, 2009, (The Brookings Institution, Overcoming Obstacles to U.S.-China Cooperation on Climate Change] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Opportunities for collaboration TOgreenhouse gas emissions.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, global warming kills billions—leads to extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Cummins, International Director, Organic Consumers Association, and Allen, Policy Advisor, Organic Consumers Association, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ronnie, and Will, Common Dreams, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century,” February 14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6, last accessed 10.17.10 [RG]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The hour is late. Leading TO disease, war, and starvation.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, there’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Stefan Rahmstorf, Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 2008 (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">It is time to turn to statement B: TO is a reality with which we need to deal.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, we must act now—postitive feedbacks are driving irreversible tipping points, only by weaning society off of fossil fuels can catastrophe be avoided—all of their authors are just media hype</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Foster et al., Editor of the Monthly Review, Professor of Sociology at the University of Oregon, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Monthly Review, A lecture by James Hansen in Eugene, Oregon http://www.monthlyreview.org/nfte101201.php]SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">On October 16, MR editor John Bellamy Foster attended a lecture in Eugene, Oregon given by James Hansen, director of NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies. Hansen is the TO caretakers in this respect.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Second is U.S.-China war—the current structure of the U.S.-Japan Alliance makes war with China inevitable—obsession with containment via continued troop presence means that China perceives the U.S. as an inevitable enemy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Yuan, Research Director, East Asia Nonproliferation Program, Monterey Institute of International Studies, Associate Professor of International Policy Studies, 2005</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Jing-dong, “China Seethes at U.S.-Japan ‘meddling’” February, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/GB24Ad01.html] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Over the years, TO acquisition of nuclear weapons.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, conflict over places like Taiwan represents the greatest potential spark for U.S.-Sino war—only by changing the strategic intention of the alliance away from containment can the U.S. and China avoid war</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Yuan, Research Director, East Asia Nonproliferation Program, Monterey Institute of International Studies, Associate Professor of International Policy Studies, 2005</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Jing-dong, “China Seethes at U.S.-Japan ‘meddling’” February, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/GB24Ad01.html] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Beijing's outright TO trust and confidence building, and avoiding future military conflicts.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, U.S.-China war leads to nuclear war, draws in other great powers</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Hunkovic, American Military University, 2009</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A war between China TO considered in this study.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Finally, East Asian instability goes nuclear</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Dibbs, Director Strategic and Defense Studies Centre, School of Pacific and Asian Studies, Australian National University, 2001</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Paul, Naval War College Review, Vol. 54, Iss. 1, “Strategic trends: Asia at a crossroads,” Winter, Proquest, last accessed 9.4.10 [RG]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The areas of maximum TO when confronted with major crises.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention Three is Solvency</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">First, American primacy can no longer guarantee stability—the fate of East Asia is now in the hand of other Asian powers</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Cook et al., East Asia Program Director, Lowry Institute, PhD in IR from ANU, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Lowy Institute, “Power and Choice: Asian Security Futures,” June,Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the Lowy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Institute for International Policy in Sydney, Rory Medcalf, the International Security Program Director at the Lowy Institute, Raoul Heinrichs is a Research Associate at the Lowy Institute] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">For decades now TO analysis that follows.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, Asia’s security order will survive American withdrawal—balance of power politics solves power vacuum and transition wars</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Cook et al., East Asia Program Director, Lowry Institute, PhD in IR from ANU, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Lowy Institute, “Power and Choice: Asian Security Futures,” June,Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the Lowy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Institute for International Policy in Sydney, Rory Medcalf, the International Security Program Director at the Lowy Institute, Raoul Heinrichs is a Research Associate at the Lowy Institute] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In Future 2, Asia’s security TO, less stable future.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, East Asian stability doesn’t need American hegemony—a concert of Asian powers solves conflict through economic interdependence and commitment towards resolving common threats</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Cook et al., East Asia Program Director, Lowry Institute, PhD in IR from ANU, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Lowy Institute, “Power and Choice: Asian Security Futures,” June,Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the Lowy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Institute for International Policy in Sydney, Rory Medcalf, the International Security Program Director at the Lowy Institute, Raoul Heinrichs is a Research Associate at the Lowy Institute] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">What is clear is that TO and institution-building.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, an Asian concert uniquely reduces the risk of war</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Cook et al., East Asia Program Director, Lowry Institute, PhD in IR from ANU, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Lowy Institute, “Power and Choice: Asian Security Futures,” June,Andrew Shearer is Director of Studies and Senior Research Fellow at the Lowy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Institute for International Policy in Sydney, Rory Medcalf, the International Security Program Director at the Lowy Institute, Raoul Heinrichs is a Research Associate at the Lowy Institute] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A concert of powers is TOto that objective,</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, we’ll get a head start on the proliferation debate</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">No arms races in East Asia—plan allows space for other countries to fill in and balance other powers, leads to regional stability</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Bandow, Senior Fellow, CATO, former Special Assistant to President Reagan, 2006</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://spectator.org/archives/2006/06/28/shifting-defense-responsibilit|Shifting Defense Responsibilities to Japan]]</span>,” http://spectator.org/archives/2006/06/28/shifting-defense-responsibilit/print]SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Tokyo's growing assertiveness TO protecting their own interests.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, U.S. troop presence in South Korea prevents any chance of an arms race on the peninsula</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Bandow, Senior Fellow, CATO, former Special Assistant to President Reagan, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Doug, “60 years in enough”, http://spectator.org/archives/2010/11/29/sixty-years-is-enough/] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Yet the DPRK possesses TO the cost itself.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Finally, generic prolif bad arguments don’t apply—nuclear weapons wouldn’t produce instability in the relative peaceful East Asian environment—besides, the North Korean nuclearization should’ve triggered arms races</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">White, Fellow at the Lowy Institute and Professor Defense and Strategic Studies at Australian National University, 2010</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[A Nuclear Japan? The least bad option” http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/A-nuclear-Japan-The-least-bad-option.aspx] SM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">However, it is also TO for the best is not a policy.</span>




=//Negative//= 

==General== 

===Feminist IR Kritik=== 


1nC

The affirmative’s use of statist international relations excludes gender from its analysis—focus on security issues and statist approach to addressing them replicates masculine identities thereby affect the theory and practice of IR
Tickner, Professor of IR, USC, 2001
(J. Ann, GENDERING WORLD POLITICS, TM, p. 20-21'

“Although IR feminists, seeking ……. Theory and practice of IR.”
Failure to address patriarchy in IR study allows for annihilation of humans—alt solves
Clark, PhD Professor of Biological Studies, Berkeley, 2004
Mary E., “Rhetoric, Patriarchy & War: Explaining the Dangers of Leadership in Mass Culture,” Women and Language, Vol. 27, No. 2, TM
“To begin by questioning the notion that patriarchy ……. Our species-is a constant, real possibility.”

The alternative—Reject the security framework endorsed by the aff—must start with bottom-up deconstruction of security issues to expose those on the margins dismantles and denaturalizes gender hierarchies
(J. Ann, GENDERING WORLD POLITICS, TM, p. 62
“At the International Congress of Women ……. To denaturalize and dismantle them.”



===Politics - EPA Regs=== 


EPA repeal rules won’t pass—Senate votes and presidential veto
Politco, January 6, 2011
(Darren Samuelson, staff, “Barbara Boxer takes shot at GOP agenda,” accessed 1/6/11 http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0111/47155.html)
But Boxer told reporters she ……. the Senate to override a veto.

Political capital is key to defending the EPA budget restrictions that would prevent it’s actions
Steven Cohen, Executive Director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University, December 28, 2010
(“Defending EPA Against the Coming Right Wing Attack,” Huffington Post, accessed 1/6/11 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/steven-cohen/defending-epa-against-the_b_801876.html)
I don't see the symbolic ……. last summer in the Gulf of Mexico.

EPA regulations are key to reduce emissions
Washington Post, December 24, 2010
(Juliet Eilperin, staff, “White House presses for new climate, wilderness protections,” accessed 1/6/11 http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/23/AR2010122305643.html)
During a telephone ……. WRI senior fellow Franz Litz.

Global Warming risks extinction of the planet
Tickell, 8-11-2008 , Climate Researcher
(Oliver, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)
We need to get prepared for four degrees ……. a similar hothouse Earth. 



==Afghanistan Negative (as of Emory)== 

===Fix Coin Counterplan=== 


1nC

Text: The United States federal government should restrict targets of commando raids and drone strikes to networks directly operating with Al-Qaeda and the Afghan Taliban. The United States federal government should condition future aid to Afghanistan on internal reforms and the enforcement of anti-corruption strategies. The United States federal government should convert the mission of all counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan to follow a Tribal Engagement Strategy. The United States federal government should not withdraw any of its military presence from Afghanistan. We’ll clarify.

Solvency—reforming COIN solves
Boyle, Lecturer, International Relations, research fellow, Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, University of St. Andrews, 2010
Michael J., International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?,” Vol. 86, No. 2, March, IntraConnect [RG]
Accordingly, it is now essential ………….into a centralized modern state. 

Block

And, COIN light/tribal engagement solves resource problems
Gurman, assistant professor at New York University’s Gallatin School, 2010
Hannah, Small Wars Journal, “Tribal Engagement and the Heavy History of Counterinsurgency Light,” June 6, http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2010/06/tribal-engagement-and-the-heav/, last accessed 8.29.10 [RG]
And then there is the matter …………. being deployed to Afghanistan.”11

And, COIN light and tribal engagement solves international credibility
Gurman, assistant professor at New York University’s Gallatin School, 2010
Hannah, Small Wars Journal, “Tribal Engagement and the Heavy History of Counterinsurgency Light,” June 6, http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2010/06/tribal-engagement-and-the-heav/, last accessed 8.29.10 [RG]
Counterinsurgency light promises ………….to this goal as having “influence without authority.”12

Tribal engagement solves insurgent support—four reasons
Gant, Major, United States Army Special Forces, this paper was so awesome that it got circulated to all commanders in Afghanistan and McChrystal met with the author, 2009
Jim, “One Tribe at a Time,” October 26, http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2009/10/one-tribe-at-a-time/, last accessed 8.29.10 [RG]
The safe-haven issue in the eastern and …………. the population that they control their own destiny. 

Local solutions good—promote stability, coalition forces key
Kagan, resident at the American Enterprise Institute, former professor of military history at the U.S. Military Academy, West Point, 2009
Frederick, National Review Online, “Planning Victory in Afghanistan,” February 9, http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/226851/planning-victory-afghanistan/frederick-w-kagan [RG]
The same will be true in Afghanistan. Local ………….helping the insurgents co-opt new fighters.



===Partition Counterplan=== 


1nC

Text: The United States federal government should refocus its counterinsurgency strategy with the goals of pursuing a more aggressive counterinsurgency in Northern Afghanistan and preventing the Taliban from retaking Afghan cities. The United States federal government should reallocate its civilian aid resources to places where Taliban support is lowest. The United States federal government should not withdraw its military presence form Afghanistan. We’ll clarify.

Counterplan solves the Aff—refocuses COIN to a winnable strategy of keeping the Taliban out of the North and major urban areas—and, decreases wasteful resources and limits casualties, solving war fatigue
Dorronsoro, Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, South Asia, former professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris, and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, 2009
Giles, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Fixing a Failed Strategy in Afghanistan,” November, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=24176, last accessed 9.22.10 [RG]
The new strategy I suggest requires a ………….a war economy and the insurgency itself. 


Block

Counterplan solves—shifting strategy solves casualties, prevents Al-Qaeda from gaining a useable sanctuary in the major cities, and increases government and Afghan military stability
- Solves for increased public support and perceptions of legitimacy
Dorronsoro, Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, South Asia, former professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris, and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, 2009
Giles, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Fixing a Failed Strategy in Afghanistan,” November, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=24176, last accessed 9.22.10 [RG]
What exactly are the U.S. interests …………. resources on the real threat, al-Qaeda.

Securing key cities solves—key sites of winning the “hearts and minds”—none of their evidence about how population-centric COIN fails applies because they’re talking about the South Pashtun cities
Dorronsoro, Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, South Asia, former professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris, and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, 2009
Giles, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Fixing a Failed Strategy in Afghanistan,” November, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=24176, last accessed 9.22.10 [RG]
Fighting the Taliban in the villages of the ………….Mujahideen were fighting very close to the city center. 


===O'Hanlon Counterplan 2011 [Berkeley]=== 


Text: 
The United States federal government should publicly commit to adhering to the 2014 withdrawal deadline set forth at the November NATO summit in Lisbon.
The United States federal government should promote and fund Afghan political organizations as per our O’Hanlon evidence.
The United States federal government should take pressure off of the issue of anticorruption by creating an international advisory board to monitor and promote governance in Afghanistan.
The United States federal government should not withdraw troops from Afghanistan 

First is the solvency advocate
O’Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative, Brookings, 2011
Michael E., Brookings, “Improving Afghan War Strategy,” February, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2011/02_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx, last accessed 2.4.11[RG]
This policy brief addresses the first …… 
improving their own nations' governance in recent times.

Next, promoting political organization solves legitimacy
O’Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative, Brookings, 2011
Michael E., Brookings, “Improving Afghan War Strategy,” February, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2011/02_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx, last accessed 2.4.11[RG]
Afghanistan's corruption problem is largely rooted in the fact …… 
as we can find-not only for the future but for today as well. 

And, new focus on good governance solves
O’Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, 21st Century Defense Initiative, Brookings, 2011
Michael E., Brookings, “Improving Afghan War Strategy,” February, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2011/02_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx, last accessed 2.4.11[RG]
General Stanley McChrystal's 2009 assessment of the situation in …… 
and an international contact group may help. 

And, 2014 withdrawal deadline solves Pakistani resolve
Curtis, Senior Research Fellow for South Asia in the Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation, and Phillips, Senior Research Fellow for Middle Eastern Affairs, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, Heritage Foundation, 2011
Lisa and James, Heritage, “Maintain Momentum in Afghanistan,” January 27, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/01/Maintain-Momentum-in-Afghanistan, last accessed 2.4.11 [RG]
Instead of reiterating the unhelpful July …… 
committed to the region over the long term. 



===U.S.-India Relations Disad=== 


1nC

Uniqueness – Now is the key to time, U.S. – India relations have grown, but they are not self-sustaining broader cooperation is key to deepen the partnership and respond to global issues
Armitage et al, President, Armitage International, Co-Chair, October 10, 2010 [Richard L., R. Nicholas Burns, Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy and International Politics, Harvard University, Co-Chair, Richard Fontaine Senior Fellow, Center for a New American Security, Center for New American Security “Natural Allies, A Blueprint for the Future of U.S. India Relations,”] SM
More than six decades ………….American and Indian leaders to seize it. 

Link - withdrawal from Afghanistan eviscerates U.S.-India relations – its perceived as U.S. abandoning India to an unstable Afghanistan 
Kaplan, Senior Fellow at the Center for New American Security, August, 2010 [Robert, “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict,”] SM
The quickest way to undermine U.S.- ………….on how we perform in Afghanistan. 

Internal Link - Copenhagen proves India is indispensable at any attempts to solve climate-change, U.S. and India cooperation leads to green technologies and massive Co2 reductions 
Armitage et al, President, Armitage International, Co-Chair, October 10, 2010 [Richard L., R. Nicholas Burns, Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy and International Politics, Harvard University, Co-Chair, Richard Fontaine Senior Fellow, Center for a New American Security, Center for New American Security “Natural Allies, A Blueprint for the Future of U.S. India Relations,”] SM
India’s emergence as a key actor at ………….direct bilateral channels for discus- sions and negotiations.

Impact – and global warming kills billions—leads to extinction
Cummins, International Director, Organic Consumers Association, and Allen, Policy Advisor, Organic Consumers Association, 2010 [Ronnie, and Will, Common Dreams, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century,” February 14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6, last accessed 10.17.10 [RG]] SM
The hour is late. Leading climate scientists such as …………. will die of thirst, cold, heat, disease, war, and starvation.

2nC

US and India are working to strengthen the bilateral relationship but the relationship depends on mutual trust and understanding - 
Reddy, Natural Resources Defense Council, October 6, 2010("Shravya India and the U.S. - Forging a Stronger Bond Through Energy and Climate ... ", [[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/sreddy/india_and_the_us_-_forging_a_s.html]]) SM
The changing tenor of U.S.-India dialogue. …………. recognition that we are all really in this together.


India opposes decrease US military presence in Afghanistan – the plan is seen as preparing for defeat and picking Pakistan instead of India 
Ottens, Leiden University, Atlantic Sentinel,October 8, 2010 (Nick, 10/8/10, " Why India Hasn't Embraced Obama ", http://atlanticsentinel.com/2010/10/why-india-hasnt-embraced-obama/)
President Obama understood that India ………….regional tensions and encourage Pakistani countermeasures.”


Plan derails any opportunity to continue the growing relations in the squo
Karl, president of the Asia Strategy Initiative, a consultancy based in Los Angeles. He served as project director of the Task Force on Enhancing India-US Cooperation in the Global Innovation Economy, jointly sponsored by the Pacific Council on International Policy and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, August 31, 2010 [David J. “U.S.-India relations: problems posed by Afghanistan and Iran,” [[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/08/31/us-india-relations-problems-posed-by-afghanistan-and-iran/]]] SM
After much criticism for appearing to ………….turn have serious consequences for US-India relations.


Your ev flows neg - India supports COIN – Karzai corruption and past reconstruction projects prove 
D’Souza, Associate Fellow, Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses 2009 [Shanthie Mariet D’Souza, New Delhi,October22,2009,“Securing-India’s-interests-in-Afghanistan”, [[http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/lead/article37329.ece]]] SM
There has been a significant shift in New ………….would require greater security mechanisms.


U.S.-India relations are critical to Afghan stability – leads to civilian surge, transparency, and stronger Indo-Pakistani ties, without India’s involvement U.S. attempts at solving the war will be futile 
Fontaine, Senior Fellow at the Center for New American Security,November 5, 2010 [Richard, “We Need an Indian Civilian Surge,” [[http://www.cnas.org/node/5218]]] SM
President Barack Obama visits India this weekend …………. be few higher priorities.



===Withdrawal Disad=== 

1nC

We are going to win the war—Taliban momentum has been reversed, they’ve lost their safe havens, and the counterinsurgency reforms are progressing
Kagan, Resident Scholar in Defense and Security Policy Studies at American Enterprise Institute, and Kagan, founder and President of the Institute for the Study of War, former military historian and professor at West Point, Yale, Georgetown, and American University, January 7, 2011
Frederick and Kimberley, American Enterprise Institute, “Defining Success in Afghanistan,” January 7, http://www.aei.org/paper/100184, last accessed 1.7.10 [RG]
Success in Afghanistan is …………. they are to make it fail.

Unique link—Counterinsurgency is bringing stability to Afghanistan now—but, withdrawal destabilizes the region—increases terrorism, destabilizes Pakistan, and causes Indo-Pak war—counterterrorism strategy fails
O’Hanlon, Senior Fellow, Director of Research at Brookings, and Reidel, Fellow, Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings, 2011
Michael and Bruce, Brookings, “Plan A-Minus for Afghanistan,” Winter Quarterly, http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2010/12_afghanistan_ohanlon_riedel.aspx, last accessed 1.6.10 [RG]
However, Plan B_focused on targeted counterterrorism ………….choice for the United States.

Impacts—Taliban takeover empowers the insurgency in Pakistan—destabilizes the country and leads to Indo-Pak war
Coll, staff writer for The New Yorker, President, New America Foundation, a public-policy institute in Washington, D.C., 2009
Steve, The New Yorker, “What if we fail in Afghanistan,” November 16, http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/stevecoll/2009/11/what-if-we-fail-in-afghanistan.html, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
First, the question requires a definition of failure. …………. prospective fourth Indo-Pakistani war.

And, Indo-Pak war causes nuclear winter—smoke blots out the sun, ozone goes away, everybody starves
Robock, Distinguished Professor in the Department of Environmental Sciences, Rutgers, Associate Director of the Center for Environmental Prediction, and Toon, Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, University of Colorado, 2009
Alan and Owen Brian, Scientific American, “Local Nuclear War, Global Suffering,” December 30, http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/RobockToonSciAmJan2010.pdf, last accessed 1.13.10 [RG]
Why discuss this topic now that the cold war has ………….nuclear powers.

Block


Winning the War Stuff:

Winning the war now—multiple indicators of economic and political reconstruction
--Also, “Graveyard of Empires” warrants for why we can’t win = stupid
Miller, Assistant Professor of International Security Studies, National Defense University, former Director for Afghanistan in the U.S. National Security Council under both Bush II and Obama, 2011
Paul, Foreign Affairs, published by CFR, “Finish the Job: How the War in Afghanistan Can Be Won,” January/February, JSTOR, last accessed 1.6.10 [RG]
Yet the stabilization and …………. a lack of adequate progress.

Winning the war now—all military indicators point to success, outweigh any Taliban gains
Kagan, Resident Scholar in Defense and Security Policy Studies at American Enterprise Institute, and Kagan, founder and President of the Institute for the Study of War, former military historian and professor at West Point, Yale, Georgetown, and American University, December 17, 2010
Frederick and Kimberly, American Enterprise Institute, “Why We Must Stick With Obama’s Afghan Strategy,” December 17, http://www.criticalthreats.org/afghanistan/why-we-must-stick-obamas-afghan-strategy, last accessed 1.6.11 [RG]
Military progress in …………. forces are in any case responding.


COIN sustainable—long-term outlook is key, violence levels inevitably fluctuate and aren’t an indicator of failure
- Iraq proves – Surge led to an immediate increase in violence, wasn’t a good indicator for success
Biddle, Senior Fellow for Defense Policy, Council on Foreign Relations, August 11, 2010
Stephen, Foreign Affairs, interview with Gideon Rose, “Q&A with Stephen Biddle on Afghanistan,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/discussions/interviews/qa-with-stephen-biddle-on-afghanistan, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
On the security side …………. dawn is coming or not.

Empirical examples with Iraq prove COIN solves—Iraq was comparative more difficult than Afghanistan
- Public support is less – weapons and fighters came from Iran, Syria, disprove sanctuary complains – corruption was even worse
O’Hanlon, senior fellow and director of research in Foreign Policy Studies, Brookings Institution, holds the Sydney Stein Jr. Chair, and Sherjan, president of Aid Afghanistan for Education, a nonprofit group, 2010
Michael, and Hassina, TOUGHING IT OUT IN AFGHANISTAN, Brookings Institution Press, pp.64-5 [RG]
To be sure, there are ways …………. doable as it was in Iraq.

The 2011 withdrawal deadline is old news, changing the deadline to 2014 and renewed commitment solves resolve concerns
Boot, Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, Senior Fellow for National Security Studies, December 27, 2010
Max, Council on Foreign Relations, “Surge Protector,” December 27, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23665/surge_protector.html, last accessed 1.6.10 [RG]
The past year, culminating …………. provinces in the south.

Experiences with Iraqi Sunnis prove that Pashtun opposition won’t derail COIN solvency
O’Hanlon, senior fellow and director of research in Foreign Policy Studies, Brookings Institution, holds the Sydney Stein Jr. Chair, and Sherjan, president of Aid Afghanistan for Education, a nonprofit group, 2010
Michael, and Hassina, TOUGHING IT OUT IN AFGHANISTAN, Brookings Institution Press, pp.63 [RG]
For all the unpopularity of the United States ………….; in fact, quite the contrary.


Link Stuff:

Withdrawal jacks Pakistan—reverses any support within the Pakistani government
Kagan, Resident Scholar in Defense and Security Policy Studies at American Enterprise Institute, and Kagan, founder and President of the Institute for the Study of War, former military historian and professor at West Point, Yale, Georgetown, and American University, December 17, 2009
Frederick W. and Kimberly, REI, “Don’t go Wobbly on Afghanistan,” October 12, http://www.aei.org/article/101110, last accessed 1.13.11 [RG]
Within Pakistan, the U.S. …………. the use of nuclear weapons.

Counterinsurgency is the only option in Afghanistan—Somalia proves the counterterrorism fails for multiple reasons—it’s try or die, there are no alternatives
Bennet, Research Associate in National Security Studies, Council on Foreign Relations, 2009
Richard, Foreign Policy, “A Recipe for Somalia,” October 13, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/13/is_afghanistan_the_new_somalia?page=full, last accessed 9.26.10 [RG]
As the Afghanistan strategy review …………. make that bad dream more likely.


Impact Stuff:

Even if COIN efforts drive some of the Taliban into Pakistan, a destabilized Afghanistan would be comparatively worse for Pakistan—removing COIN doesn’t solve—uniqueness is going our way on this, Pakistan is getting tougher on its own insurgents, but giving the Taliban a sanctuary in Afghanistan tips the scales the other way
O’Hanlon, senior fellow and director of research in Foreign Policy Studies, Brookings Institution, holds the Sydney Stein Jr. Chair, and Sherjan, president of Aid Afghanistan for Education, a nonprofit group, 2010
Michael, and Hassina, TOUGHING IT OUT IN AFGHANISTAN, Brookings Institution Press, pp.67-8 [RG]
Third, instability in …………. latter’s problems even worse.

Withdrawal and failure crushes Obama’s foreign policy and credibility—only staying the course solves
Kagan, Resident Scholar in Defense and Security Policy Studies at American Enterprise Institute, and Kagan, founder and President of the Institute for the Study of War, former military historian and professor at West Point, Yale, Georgetown, and American University, December 17, 2009
Frederick W. and Kimberly, REI, “Don’t go Wobbly on Afghanistan,” October 12, http://www.aei.org/article/101110, last accessed 1.13.11 [RG]
The Obama administration is not making ………….his advisers may think or say.

Obama has staked his entire presidency on this war—only success gives him a win
Fernholz, staff writer, The American Prospect, Research Fellow, New America Foundation, 2010
Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” February 18, http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_ultimate_test_case, last accessed 1.13.11 [RG]
Many of the campaign aides who ………….of his other initiatives. 


===Multilateralism Advantage=== 



No solvency—Midterms killed Obama’s foreign policy agenda
Rogin, Foreign Policy staffer, November 11, 2010
Josh, Foreign Policy, “Obama’s Top 10 Foreign-Policy Headaches,” November 11, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/10/10_foreign_policy_issues_that_just_got_harder_for_obama, last accessed 11.15.10 [RG]
Now that Republicans ………….defer to the administration." 

Multilateralism fails—multiple reasons
- Domestic distractions outweigh, unorganized conferences
Haass, President, Council on Foreign Relations, former Director of Policy Planning, United States Department of State, 2010
Richard, CFR, “The Case for Messy Multilateralism,” January 5, http://www.cfr.org/publication/21132/case_for_messy_multilateralism.html, last accessed 11.23.10 [RG]
But to acknowledge that we are all …………. concerns over climate change mounted.

International climate change talks will fail—disputes between developing and developed countries
Rodriguez, Correspondent for the Heritage Foundation, 2010
Camilo, The Heritage Foundation, “U.N. Climate Change Conferences are Full of Hot Air,” November 2, http://blog.heritage.org/?p=45944, last accessed 11.19.10 [RG]
With the 1997 Kyoto Protocol provisions ………….Cancun promises to be the same charade.

Multilateralism fails to stop climate change—China, U.S. don’t get on board, that gives developing countries an excuse to jump ship
Hale, PhD Candidate, Department of Politics, Princeton, Visiting Fellow, LSE Global Governance, London School of Economics, 2011
Thomas, The Washington Quarterly, “A Climate Coalition of the Willing,” Winter, http://www.twq.com/11winter/docs/11winter_Hale.pdf, last accessed 1.13.11 [RG]
Intergovernmental efforts to …………. Protocol, at least not in the near future.

Multilateralism fails to stop prolif—empirically proven, the NPT and other mechanisms are inherently flawed
UNIS, United Nations Information Service, 2005
United Nations Information Service, “Failures in Multilateral Security Mechanisms Raise Nuclear Proflieration Risks, Diminsih Prospects for Nuclear Disarmament, First Committee Told,” October 10, http://www.unis.unvienna.org/unis/pressrels/2005/gadis3299.html, last accessed 12.31.10 [RG]
NEW YORK, 7 October (UN Headquarters) -- Recent failures ………….much more accessible. 


===Hegemony/Credibility/Overstretch/Non-Polarity Advantage=== 

No impact—drawdown in Iraq solves overstretch
Haass, President, Council on Foreign Relations, 2010
Richard, CFR, “Endgames in Iraq and Afghanistan,” December 13, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23619/endgames_in_iraq_and_afghanistan.html, last accessed 1.13.11 [RG]
Nevertheless, the decisions to …………. of policymakers and diplomats.

Turn—withdrawal crushes U.S. heg—gives the perception that our resolve is weak, tanks our credibility
Twining, Senior Fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, former member of Condoleezza Rice’s policy planning staff, former Foreign Policy Advisor to Senator John McCain, 2009
Dan, Foreign Policy, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan,” September 30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
And that is the point: the debate over ………….to others who share neither our interests nor our values.

And, empirically proven—U.S. admitting defeat in Afghanistan kills credibility and leads to isolationism
Twining, Senior Fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, former member of Condoleezza Rice’s policy planning staff, former Foreign Policy Advisor to Senator John McCain, 2009
Dan, Foreign Policy, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan,” September 30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
Russia appearsto be quietly reveling …………. (for now) peaceful rise.

And, we’re turning their public war fatigue arguments—withdrawal causes Americans to be skeptical of our ability to succeed
Thier, Director for Afghanistan and Pakistan at the U.S. Institute of Peace, 2009
J Alexander, Foreign Policy, “Afghanistan is still worth the fight,” November 30, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/11/30/afghanistan_is_still_worth_the_fight, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
The final argument that compels ………….we must meet in the decades to come.

And, sustained commitment to Afghanistan key to maintain credibility
Whitehouse, Senior ISR staffer, 2010
David, International Socialist Review, “Sinking Deeper,” ISR Iss. 69, January-February, http://www.isreview.org/issues/69/feat-afghanistan.shtml, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
Afghanistan is central to ………….objective of the war is not won. 

No impact to overstretch—latent power solves
Wohlforth, Olin Fellow in International Security Studies at Yale University, 2007
William, Harvard International Review, “The Rules of Power Analysis,” Vol. 29, Spring, http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1611&p=3, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
Rule No. 4: Consider Latent PowerUS …………. large wellsprings of latent power. 

Primacy inevitable—no risk of a decline in resolve—Obama won’t change Grand Strategy
Walt, Robert and Rene Belfer Professor of International Relations, resident associate at the Carnegie Endowment for Peace, and a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution, serves as co-editor of the Cornell Studies in Security Affairs, previously taught at Princeton University and the University of Chicago, 2009
Stephen, American Review, “Restoring solvency,” November, http://americanreviewmag.com/articles/Restoring-solvency, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
Yet appearances can be deceiving, and this is almost …………. look more closely at the crises he faces.

And, search for primacy inevitable—post-9/11 security environment dictates it
McDonough, doctoral student in Political Science and a Doctoral Fellow at the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies, Dalhousie University, 2008
David S., Orbis, Vol. 53, Iss. 1, “Beyond Primacy: Hegemony and Security Addiction in U.S. Grand Strategy,” January, ScienceDirect, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
The George W. Bush administration …………. military retrenchment or strategic restraint

And, this fear for security outweighs their war fatigue and overstretch args—our evidence is comparative
McDonough, doctoral student in Political Science and a Doctoral Fellow at the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies, Dalhousie University, 2008
David S., Orbis, Vol. 53, Iss. 1, “Beyond Primacy: Hegemony and Security Addiction in U.S. Grand Strategy,” January, ScienceDirect, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
After 9/11, the Bush administration embraced ………….American retrenchment or strategic restraint.

And, a public addiction to security and fear outweighs any war fatigue
McDonough, doctoral student in Political Science and a Doctoral Fellow at the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies, Dalhousie University, 2008 David S., Orbis, Vol. 53, Iss. 1, “Beyond Primacy: Hegemony and Security Addiction in U.S. Grand Strategy,” January, ScienceDirect, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
The reason that the current debate is currently mired in …………. “beyond primacy”–for much of the Long War.


===Terrorism Advantage=== 


Al-Qaeda won’t get nuclear weapons—multiple reasons
Mueller, Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University, 2009
John, International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, “The Atomic Terrorist?,” April 30, www.icnnd.org/research/Mueller_Terrorism.pdf, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
Thus far terrorist groups seem to …………. -effective and accompanied with only tolerable side effects, are generally desirable. 

And, Al-Qaeda’s operating capacity is limited—can’t make weapons
Mueller, Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University, 2009
John, International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, “The Atomic Terrorist?,” April 30, www.icnnd.org/research/Mueller_Terrorism.pdf, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
The key portions of al-Qaeda …………. and understand, not new, exotic ones.51 


And, empirically disproven that Al-Qaeda goes after nuclear weaponss—only evidence is sketch
Mueller, Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University, 2009
John, International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, “The Atomic Terrorist?,” April 30, www.icnnd.org/research/Mueller_Terrorism.pdf, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
The degree to which al-Qaeda ………….episode never happened.42 


Terrorists won’t get a bomb from other states—donors fear retaliation
Mueller, Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University, 2009
John, International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, “The Atomic Terrorist?,” April 30, www.icnnd.org/research/Mueller_Terrorism.pdf, last accessed 8.25.10 [RG]
One route a would-be atomic terrorist might …………. its host in Afghanistan, the Taliban government.9


==//South Korea Negative (as of Emory)//== 


===//Deterrence Disad//=== 

//1nC//

//Uniqueness—U.S. deterrence is high now—high troop levels give credibility to security guarantees//
//Russell, senior lecturer in the Department of National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, 2010//
//James A., International Analyst Network, “Extended Deterrence, Security Guarantees and Nuclear Weapons: U.S. Strategic and Policy Conundrums in the Gulf,” January 5, http://www.analyst-network.com/article.php?art_id=3297, last accessed 9.4.10 [RG]//
//The build out of the U.S. military infrastructure points …… of this fact, i.e., the United States already maintains a nuclear umbrella backed by nuclear weapons in the region.//


//Link—withdrawal guts deterrence and causes instability—South Korea rearms to compensate for drawdown, triggering an arms race—without the U.S. to moderate, tensions escalate to war//
//Richardson, Washington-based analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the U.S. Department of Defense, 2006//
//Corey, Asia Times, “South Korea must choose sides,” September 9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html, last accessed 9.17.10 [RG]//
//Rumors of a substantial drawdown or complete withdrawal …… invasion has become a secondary mission to maintaining regional stability, even in a reunified Korea.//


//Impact—East Asian instability goes nuclear and draws in other major powers//
//Dibbs, Director Strategic and Defense Studies Centre, School of Pacific and Asian Studies, Australian National University, 2001//
//Paul, Naval War College Review, Vol. 54, Iss. 1, “Strategic trends: Asia at a crossroads,” Winter, Proquest, last accessed 9.4.10 [RG]//
//The areas of maximum danger and instability …… to be ineffective when confronted with major crises.//


//Block//

//And, U.S. military presence is key to maintain regional stability—empirically proven that it deters resource conflict and pacifies tensions//
//Blumenthal, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Resident Fellow, American Enterprise Institute, 2010//
//Dan, American Enterprise Institute, “Losing Asia?,” June 7, http://www.aei.org/article/102121, last accessed 9.21.10 [RG]//
//After three decades of peace and stability in the Asia- …… pursuit of its own goals during a crisis is a recipe for trouble.//


//And, withdrawal sparks conflict and arms races—enemies perceive drawdown especially in a time of crisis as a sign of weakness, allies question our commitments//
//Davino, Colonel, U.S. Army, U.S. Army War College, 2004//
//Michael F., U.S. Army War College Strategy Research, “Should the U.S. Continue to Maintain Forces in Korea?,” May 3, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423338, last accessed 9.25.10 [RG]//
//Although the region’s economy and the support …… to both our allies and the North Koreans.//


//USFK withdrawal collapses deterrence and causes Japan to nuclearize—they get the perception that U.S. won’t be as committed and will withdrawal Japanese forces//
//Dao, national correspondent for The New York Times covering military and veteran affairs, 2003//
//James, The New York Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?,” January 5, http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html, last accessed 9.17.10 [RG]//
//Deciding if now is the time depends on how well the United States is able to project power …… and airplanes that they see in the region."//


//Troops are key to deterrence—lend credibility to our defense commitments and nuclear guarantees//
//Payne et al., President and co-founder of the National Institute for Public Policy, a nonprofit research center, Head of the Graduate Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, Study Director, 2010//
//Dr. Keith, Thomas Scheber, and Kurt Guthe, National Institute for Public Policy, “Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,” March, http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf, last accessed 9.4.10 [RG]//
//Forward deployment of forces, …… presence on the peninsula has not been essential to the nuclear guarantee.//



//U.S. ground forces key to deterrence in Korea—other countries perceive air and naval power as weaker//
//Singh, senior fellow at the Institute of Far Eastern Studies, in Seoul, president of the Indo-Korean Policy Forum, and Il-Young, 2003//
//Lakhvinder, and Il-Young, Pacific Focus, “Time to Keep Going: The Role and Structure of U.S. Forces in a Unified Korea,” Vol. 18, Iss. 1, March, Ebsco, last accessed 9.25.10 [RG]//
//In a unified Korea, China and Russia would …… ground forces while avoiding confrontation with America. ’’//


===//China War Disad//=== 
//1nC//

//Uniqueness—U.S. is deterring China now—Defense Review proves that Asia is central to U.S. military strategy, sends the strong signal for China to back off—but, continued troop presence is key to credibility//
//McDevitt, Director for CNA Strategic Studies, the CNA Corporation, U.S. Navy, retired, 2010//
//Michael, Asia-Pacific Bulletin, “2010 QDR and Asia: Messages for the Region,” March 11, http://csis.org/files/publication/pac1012.pdf, last accessed 9.21.10 [RG]//
//***QDR – Quadrennial Defense Review**//
//**US friends and allies in Asia should be reassured …… regarding the eclipse of US power in the region are misguided.**//

Link—U.S. presence in South Korea plays a key role in deterring Taiwan-China conflict—withdrawal upsets a delicate balance and gives the perception that the U.S. won’t deter conflict
Alagappa, Senior Fellow, East-West Center, PhD in International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, 2003
Muthia, ASIAN SECURITY ORDER: INSTRUMENTAL AND NORMATIVE FEATURES, Stanford University Press, Google Books [RG]
The United States has also intervened in the increasingly tense …… trying to deter China without isolating or provoking it.


Impact—China-Taiwan war draws in the U.S. and goes nuclear—despite all shared interests between the U.S. and China, tensions over Taiwan outweigh
Bush, Director, Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, Senior Fellow, Brookings, and O’Hanlon, Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy, Brookings, 2007
Richard, and Michael E., A WAR LIKE NO OTHER: THE THRUTH ABOUT CHINA’S CHALLENGE TO AMERICA, John Wiley & Sons, pp.99-101 [RG]
War between China and Taiwan is a distinct possibility. …… could affect their standing in the global community.


Block

And, U.S. military presence deters China—provides a check on nationalism—tensions over Taiwan, South China Sea make a credible signal of resolve now key, we’re on the brink
Blumenthal, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Resident Fellow, American Enterprise Institute, 2010
Dan, American Enterprise Institute, “Losing Asia?,” June 7, http://www.aei.org/article/102121, last accessed 9.21.10 [RG]
After three decades of peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific, it is …… free from domination by any other power.



And, U.S. military presence deters China—other countries bandwagon with the U.S. as long as they see it as strong, balances against China
Goh, Assistant Professor at the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, 2005
Evelyn, Policy Studies, “Meeting the China Challenge: The U.S. in Southeast Asian Regional Security Strategies,” http://scholarspace.manoa.hawaii.edu/bitstream/10125/3509/3/PS016.pdf.txt, last accessed 9.21.10 [RG]
Traditional friends and allies of the United States …… against or bandwagoning with this powerful neighbor.


Any reason why China is peaceful in the squo proves our argument—none of the Aff’s evidence assumes a decrease in U.S. leadership—post-withdrawal, China’s intentions will change and become more aggressive
Sutter, Professor of Asian Studies, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 2007
Robert, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “Does China Seek to Dominate Asia and Reduce US Influence as a Regional Power?,” April 20, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/events/?fa=eventDetail&id=975, last accessed 10.3.10 [RG]
On balance, this writer judges that US policy makers …… against US leadership and interests in Asia. 


Only we control the internal-link into horizontal and vertical escalation—U.S.-Sino war draws in other nuclear powers
Hunkovic, American Military University, 2009
Lee J., American Military University, “The China-Taiwanese Conflict,” http://www.lamp-method.org/3.html, last accessed 10.3.10 [RG]
A war between China, Taiwan and the United States …… other countries will not be considered in this study. 



China’s rise won’t be cooperative—China inevitably views U.S. influence as a zero-sum to their own—only containing and maintaining a hardline approach to China solves future conflict
Lee, foreign-policy fellow, Centre for Independent Studies, visiting scholar, Hudson Institute, May 7, 2010
John, Centre for Independent Studies, “The fantasy of taming China’s rise,” March 7, http://www.apo.org.au/research/fantasy-taming-china%E2%80%99s-rise, last accessed 9.19.10 [RG]
This paper argues that America’s capacity to ‘manage’ …… is restrained, bounded and ultimately peaceful. 

===Military Exercises Counterplan=== 


1nC

Text: The United States federal government should end joint military exercises with the Republic of Korea Armed Forces and the Japan Self Defense Forces. We’ll clarify.

Solvency—even if the Yellow Sea exercises are over, a new round of exercises will include Japan—that uniquely freaks out China—only the counterplan eases tensions and causes Chinese reciprocation
- Aff evidence doesn’t assume new exercises with Japan
Lim, Senior East Asian Correspondent for Bloomberg, December 8, 2010
Bomi, Bloomberg, “U.S. Invites Japan to Join Korean Exercise as Tensions with North Escalate,” December 8, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-08/mullen-repeats-call-on-china-to-use-influence-to-rein-in-north-korea-ally.html, last accessed 12.9.10 [RG]
President Barack Obama sent the aircraft …… criticized for calling for dialogue, is that fair?” 


And, new exercises lead to North Korean aggression—empirically proven that’s what caused the Yeonpyeong attack
Lim and Hong, Senior East Asian Correspondents for Bloomberg, December 6, 2010
Bomi and Jungmin, Bloomberg, “South Korea Begins Live-Firing Drills That North Says Threaten War,” December 6, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-04/north-korea-condemns-u-s-japan-south-korea-military-alliance.html, last accessed 12.9.10 [RG]
South Korea’s military began live-firing drills off its …… provocation after South Korea fired into waters each country claims. 

Block

New exercises will continue
Xinhua, December 8, 2010
Yang Lina, Xinhua, “S. Korea, U.S. to continue joint drills,” December 8, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2010-12/08/c_13640398.htm, last accessed 12.8.10 [RG]
SEOUL, Dec. 8 (Xinhua) -- Top military officers from …… and the DPRK on Nov. 23.

New exercises make China angrier than before because they include Japan—only ending them will solve tensions
Talmadge, Associated Press, December 7, 2010
Eric, Product Design & Development, “U.S., Japan Begin War Games; China Denounces Drills,” December 7, http://www.pddnet.com/news-us-japan-begin-war-games-china-denounces-drills-120710/, last accessed 12.9.10 [RG]
TOKYO (AP) — In an ongoing show of force …… the exercises also have observers from South Korea.

And, military exercises anger China—empirically proven—stopping them is key
Associated Press, December 9, 2010
NPR, Associated Press, “US Military Leader Chides China Over NKorea Crisis,” December 9, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=131770785, last accessed 12.9.10 [RG]
Turning up the pressure on China …… took place relatively close to Chinese shores.


New exercises green-light South Korea—lead to live-fire exercises that North Korea retaliates against
BBC, December 6, 2010
BBC News, Asia-Pacific, “South Korea Begins Live-Fire Military Drills,” December 6, http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-pacific-11923866, last accessed 12.9.10 [RG]
South Korea has begun a series of …… military exercises, their biggest ever.



===Korean War Advantage=== 


=== === 
Status quo solves North Korean aggression—multiple reasons
Drezner, Professor, International Relations, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts, 2010
Daniel, Foreign Policy, “Why did North Korea blink?,” December 20, http://drezner.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/12/20/north_korea_blinks, last accessed 1.12.11 [RG]
Meanwhile, Mr. Richardson said the North had …… walk back his own brinksmanship. 

No North Korean aggression—the thesis of their Aff is empirically denied, Kim won’t retaliate, he’s reopened talks
Keating, Analyst, Foreign Policy, 2010
Joshua, Foreign Policy, “Morning Brief: North Korea says it won’t retaliate after South Korean drills,” December 20, http://blog.foreignpolicy.com/node/573961, last accessed 1.11.11 [RG]
Top news: Despite earlier promises of …… the remains of several hundred U.S. troops killed during the Korean War, Richardson says. 


Squo solves tensions—China’s finally pushing back, North Korea has agreed to concessions
Paal, Vice President for Studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2010
Douglas H., Carnegie Endowment, “North Korea: Seeking Stability,” December 30, http://carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42218, last accessed 1.15.11 [RG]
Between the three big Korean events of 2010—the sinking of the corvette Cheonan in March, …… violations of the Korean War armistice.


Withdrawal leads to North Korean invasion—gives the DPRK the impression that the U.S. won’t defend South Korea, encourages provocation and resumption of war
Henricks, Lieutenant Commander, Civil Engineer Corps, United States Navy, 2005
Todd B., Naval War College, “Adverse Effects of Prospective U.S. Forces Korea Troop Realignments,” February 14, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463965&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, last accessed 9.22.10 [RG]
Moving USFK military …… the United States does not take its nuclear threat seriously. 

And, military exercises are a key deterrent against North Korean aggression, empirically proven—they signal that the U.S. commitment to the South is credible and operational
AFP, 2010
AFP, Sydney Morning Herald, “S. Korea, US end naval drills,” July 28, http://news.smh.com.au/breaking-news-world/skorea-us-end-naval-drills-20100728-10vfr.html, last accessed 9.22.10 [RG]
A full-scale US and South Korean military …… will be held later this year.



Diplomacy is only effective with a credible military presence—all other forms of diplomacy are ineffective against North Korea
Henricks, Lieutenant Commander, Civil Engineer Corps, United States Navy, 2005
Todd B., Naval War College, “Adverse Effects of Prospective U.S. Forces Korea Troop Realignments,” February 14, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463965&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, last accessed 9.22.10 [RG]
U.S. Force Realignments Will …… where it is most valuable to deter this threat—on the Korean Peninsula. 


Deterrence solves North Korean aggression—past fifty years prove
Kang, Professor of Government, Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth University, 2003
David, Orbis, “The Avoidable Crisis in North Korea,” Vol. 47, Iss. 3, InterConnect [RG]
North Korea has not attacked …… neither wishes to provoke a war, knowing the destruction it would bring. 


===Six Party Talks Advantage=== 

Status quo talks on six party talks solves—China wants to help the U.S. to try and gain favor 
Korean Herald, September 6, 2010
Shin HAe-in, Korean Herald, “Members building up momentum for N.K. nuke talks,” September 6, http://www.koreaherald.com/national/Detail.jsp?newsMLId=20100906000766, last accessed 9.16.10 [RG]
Partners of the six-nation dialogue …… stances of Seoul and Washington, they say.


Squo solves—China recently brought North Korea back to the table, it’s just a question of whether the U.S. engages in the talks—which the Aff has no control over
Associated Press, September 2, 2010
Associated Press, “China calls for compromise on NKorea talks,” September 2, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5iURO8fOyWVOA0ytFlaAGuC9F7R9wD9HVNGAG0, last accessed 9.16.10 [RG]
BEIJING — China called Thursday …… the talks, according to Chinese state media.


Status quo solves—U.S. dominance coerces China into resuming Six Party Talks—only a risk that withdrawal takes away our leverage
Blumenthal, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, Resident Fellow, American Enterprise Institute, September 3, 2010
Dan, American Enterprise Institute, “Obama’s Successful North Korea Policy,” September 3, http://www.aei.org/article/102504, last accessed 9.25.10 [RG]
The Washington Post recently reported …… international law and give up its nuclear weapons

Squo solves denuclearization—all major parties are on board—China is successfully influencing North Korea
Xinhua, 2010
Yu Zhongwen, Xinhua, “Positive signs emerge for resumption of six-party talks,” September 9, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/indepth/2010-09/08/c_13484650.htm, last accessed 10.3.10 [RG]
BEIJING, Sept. 8 (Xinhua) -- Positive signs …… implement the Sept. 19, 2005 joint statement.


===Regionalism Advantage=== 

Strong alliance with South Korea is key to multilateral security regime
Hyug-baeg, 08 – professor at the department of political science and diplomacy at Korea University
(October 2008, Im Hyug-baeg, U.S.-Korea Institute Working Paper Series, “How Korea Could Become a Regional Power in Northeast Asia: Building a Northeast Asian Triad,” accessed at 9/3/2010, [[http://uskoreainstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/USKI-WP4.pdf]], KK)

Moreover, a strong alliance …… of the regional security networks.7 


The thesis of their advantage is wrong – bilateral alliance doesn’t inhibit multilateralism
Hyug-baeg, 08 – professor at the department of political science and diplomacy at Korea University
(October 2008, Im Hyug-baeg, U.S.-Korea Institute Working Paper Series, “How Korea Could Become a Regional Power in Northeast Asia: Building a Northeast Asian Triad,” accessed on 9/3/2010, [[http://uskoreainstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/USKI-WP4.pdf]], KK)
Many have said …… cooperation, but to increase the scope and reach of what can be accomplished toward mutual goals. (Han Yong Sup, 2005) 



South Korea is already playing a greater role with regional countries – balancing against the U.S. on certain issues
Lee, 09 – Seoul National University
(December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” accessed on 9/3/2010 [[http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org]], KK)
Korea’s Choices: Past and Present Interestingly, Korea’s diplomatic …… turning their eyes toward possible exit options


Regionalism is at BEST a supplement for the US bilateral alliance system, not a substitute.
Ryoo, 04
(Winter 2004, Jae-Kap Ryoo, Kyonggi University, “U.S.-Korea Security Alliance in Transition: A ROK Perspective,” International Journal of Korean Studies, Fall/Winter 2004, Vol. IIX, No. 1, KK)

Multilateralism should not be a …… professional military behavior.**//**

==Turkey Negative [as of Emory]== 

===Israeli Strikes Advantage Counterplan=== 



1nC

Text: The United States federal government should establish a mutual-defense treaty to provide Israel with a nuclear guarantee against Iran. The United States federal government should broadly enhance Israeli second-strike capabilities. We’ll clarify.

Counterplan solves—provides a credible deterrent against Iranian aggression and Israel strikes
***Note – Ehud Barak is now Israel’s Minister of Defense**
**Reidel, Fellow, Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings, 2010**
**Bruce, The National Interest, “If Israel Attacks,” Sept-Oct, http://nationalinterest.org/article/israel-attacks-3907?page=3, last accessed 1.10.11 [RG]**
**IN SUCH a dire (but manageable) situation, the United States …….. nuclear capability will America be able to strongly and credibly deter an Israeli attack on Tehran’s facilities.**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Block </span>
**Counterplan solves deterrence—empirically proven that Iran will back away from U.S. threats, makes Israel feel secure so they won’t attack**
**Reidel, Fellow, Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings, 2010**
**Bruce, The National Interest, “If Israel Attacks,” Sept-Oct, http://nationalinterest.org/article/israel-attacks-3907?page=3, last accessed 1.10.11 [RG]**
**PERSUADING ISRAEL not to attack Iran really …….. A nuclear security guarantee to Israel, if backed by a credible arsenal, will deter Tehran.**

**Impacts empirically denied, we’ve been cooperating with Israel for awhile**
**Reidel, Fellow, Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings, 2010**
**Bruce, The National Interest, “If Israel Attacks,” Sept-Oct, http://nationalinterest.org/article/israel-attacks-3907?page=3, last accessed 1.10.11 [RG]**
**This is why, in the meantime, the administration should go another step and actually assist Israel in developing its own second-strike capabilities further. Already the United States has been deeply …….. the earliest possible alert of an incoming attack. This defensive cooperation should be continued and enhanced.**




===**Relations Disad**=== 


**1nC**

**US-Turkey Relations high now—Obama visit proves**
**Liping & Jinfa ‘9 (Lin, Jang, Xinhua news agency, “Obama visits Turkey to open new stage of bilateral ties,” [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2009-04/06/content_11136521.htm]] accessed tm 10/6)**
**ANKARA, April 5 (Xinhua) -- U.S. President …….. for Obama's reaching out to Muslims.**


**Unilateral withdrawal destroys U.S-Turkish relations - Turkish officials don’t like the idea of one-sided withdrawal**
Kibaroglu 05 (Mustafa, Assistant professor in the department of international relations at Bilkent University, Dec, “Isn’t it Time to Say Farewell to Nukes in Turkey” European Security Vol. 14, No. 4, 443_/457
[[@http://www.mustafakibaroglu.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu-EuropeanSecurity-USnukesTurkey-December2005.pdf|http://www.mustafakibaroglu. com/sitebuildercontent/ sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu- EuropeanSecurity- USnukesTurkey-December2005.pdf]] accessed tm 4/21)


**US Turkey Relations key to addressing terrorism**
**Menon Prof of IR @ Lehigh, Fellow, New America Foundation and Wimbush and Director, Center for Future Security Strategies 2007**
**(Rajan and S. Enders, , Hudson Institute, Mar 25, [[http://www.hudson.org/files/pdf_upload/Turkey%20PDF.pdf]] accessed tme 10/6)**
**The alliance between the United States and …….. counter the challenges posed by a resurgent (and potentially nuclear-armed) Iran.**


**Terrorism causes extinction**
**Alexander 3 (Yonah, Inter-University for Terrorism Studies Director, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2003/aug/27/20030827-084256-8999r/, AD: 6/27/10) jl**
**Last week's brutal suicide bombings in …….. global security concerns.**


**Block**


**US –Turkey relations improving post Iraq invasion tensions**
**Bell, Project Manager at the Ploughshares Fund and a Truman National Security Fellow and Loehrke, research assistant at the Ploughshares Fund and a graduate student at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, 2009**
**(Alexandra and Benjamin, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, November 23 2009, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/print/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey]] accessed 9/21/10 tm)**
**The U.S.-Turkish relationship …….. in Afghanistan--a boon to U.S. efforts there.**


**American TNW’s key to Turkey security perceptions**
**Weitz, Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at the Hudson Institute, 2010**
**(Richard Weitz, Turkey Analyst, April 12, http://www.silkroadstudies.org/new/inside/turkey/2010/100412A.html, Accessed 06/23/2010)**
**This impractical requirement indicates …….. its security and defense initiatives.**
**TNWs key to US/Turkey relations- security commitment.**
**Nuclear Threat Initiative 2009**
**(Nuclear Threat Initiative, “Turkey Profile”, June 09, [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/profiles/turkey/index.html]], Accessed June 26, 2010)**
**Turkey signed the …….. commitment to Turkish security.**




===**NATO Disad**=== 



**1nC**


**Failure to consult about nuclear policy changes damage the alliance**

**Kulesa, Polish Institute of International Affairs Analyst, 2009**

**(Lukasz, [[http://www.pism.pl/zalaczniki/Strategic_File_7.pdf]], March 2009, “Reduce US Nukes in Europe to Zero, and Keep NATO Strong (and Nuclear). A View from Poland,” SP)**

**Assuring the cohesion of the Alliance …….. changes in the nuclear strategy without properly consulting its allies.**




**NATO collapse ensures nuclear war**

**John Duffield, AP of government and foreign affairs at the University of Virginia) Oct 1 1994 “NATO's Functions after the Cold War,” [[http://www.transatlantic.uj.edu.pl/upload/59_4b3a_Duffield.NATO.PostCW.pdf]], SP)**

**Initial analyses of NATO's future …….. the existence of nuclear weapons.**





===**Iran Advantage**=== 


**Removal of TNWs from Turkey causes Turkish prolif—proves that Turkey won’t been seen as neutral arbitrator**
**Sherwood-Randall, Sr. Advisor of the Preventative Defense Project, 2007**
**(Elizabeth,“ TheBelferCenter, Fall, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/17425/tend_to_turkey.html]], )**
**There is another security …….. goals but could stimulate others to follow suit.**

**Turkish Prolif bad---risks middle east proliferation faster than the SQ**
**Henry Sokolski, Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center (NPEC), adjunct professor at the Institute of World Politics member of the Congressional Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism, 6-14-2007. What Nuclear Challenges Might the EU Meet? The Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, http://www.npec-web.org/Presentations/20070616-Sokolski-Talk-AixEnProvence-Conference.pdf)**
**One country that might …….. for nuclear terrorism and war.**



**No solvency—multiple reasons Turkey won’t participate in the denuclearization talks, they’ve had multiple opportunities**
**Barkey, visiting scholar, Carnegie Middle East Program, Bernard L. and Bertha F. Cohen Professor at Lehigh University, 2011**
**Henri J., Carnegie, “What’s Turkey’s Role in the Second Round of Iran Talks?,” January 9, http://carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42277, last accessed 1.11.11 [RG]**
**PBS: Does Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan …….. meeting would not take place in Istanbul.**


**Nuclear Iran doesn’t cause prolif—empirics disprove, technical constraints and international pressure**
**Lindsay, Senior Vice President, Director of Studies, Maurice R. Greenberg Chair, Council on Foreign Relations, and Takeyh, Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations, 2010**
**James M. and Ray, Foreign Affairs, “After Iran Gets the Bomb,” March/April, JSTOR, last accessed 1.8.10 [RG]**
**Another danger that would have to be …….. U.S. law imposed, or could impose, on nuclear proliferators.**


**Israel won’t strike Iran—multiple reasons**
**- empirics prove they ask for U.S. consent, need U.S. tech help to actually carry out the strikes**
**Avnery, well-known Israeli writer, founder of the Gush Shalom Peace Movement, 2010**
**Uri, The Palestine Chronicle, “Hold Me Back! – But Will Israel Attack Iran,” April 4, http://palestinechronicle.com/view_article_details.php?id=15863, last accessed 1.21.11 [RG]**
**It is dangerous to prophesy in such matters, especially …….. kindergarten kids can understand: No! Lo! La! Nyet!**


**No impact to nuclear Iran—no prolif**
**Posen, Ford International Professor of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Director of the MIT Security Studies Program, 2006**
**Barry R., MIT Center for International Studies, “We Can Live With a Nuclear Iran,” February 27, http://www.nytimes.com/2006/02/27/opinion/27posen.html, last accessed 9.6.10 [RG]**
**The intense concern about Iran’s nuclear energy program …….. guarantees would seem insufficient relative to Iran.**




===**Syria-Israel War Advantage**=== 


**No war between Syria and Israel—talks are continually in progress**
**Salem, Fellow, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2008**
**Paul, Carnegie Endowment, “The Logic of Syrian Israeli Peace,” December 26, http://carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=22588, last accessed 12.29.10 [RG]**
**The possibility of peace between Syria and Israel in 2009 is a serious one. Both countries have a strategic interest in peace, and have been pursuing …….. on phased withdrawal and early diplomatic relations.**


**No Central Asian conflict—economic cooperation prevents escalation**
**Swanstrom, Director of the Institute for Security and Development Policy, Cornell, Swedish scholar, Strategic Studies Institute, and Tabyshalieva, Professor, James Madison University, 2005**
**Niklas, Svante, and Anara, Swedish Development Cooperation Agency, “A Conflict and Security Analysis of Central Asia with a Focus on Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan,” June 1, www.silkroadstudies.org/docs/publications/2005/SIDA_CA.pdf, last accessed 12.30.10 [RG]**
**On the positive side the Central …….. the sub-national inequality**



==**Japan Negative [TFA State]**== 

===**Alliance Counterplan**=== 

Text: The United States federal government and Japan should engage in broad cooperation over security and economic challenges. The United States federal government should advance a major public diplomacy effort with the people of Okinawa, including, but not limited to foreign investment, educational aid and exchanges, and infrastructure improvements. 

1nC

Broad cooperation and engagement reinforces the foundation of the alliance – key to overall stability of relations 
Abraham Denmark is a Fellow with the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). At CNAS, Mr. Denmark directs the Asia-Pacific Security Program and several defense strategy and planning projects and Daniel Kliman is a visiting fellow at the Center for a New American Security. He contributes to the Asia-Pacific Security Program and other initiatives, a Japan Policy Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and an Adjunct Research Associate with the Institute for Defense Analyses, 6/10/10“Cornerstone: A Future Agenda for the U.S.-Japan Alliance” [[http://www.cnas.org/node/4591]]) SM
To advance U.S. and ….. decades- old conglomerates.

Block

The key way to enhance the alliance is having Tokyo and the United States cooperate on other issues – Futenma is not the only issue and it is deterring from other issues – and to publicize these activities. 
Brad Glosserman - executive director of Pacific Forum Center for Strategic and International Studies. 4/12/2010. The Pacific Forum – CSIS. “Breaking point for the alliance?”. [[http://csis.org/files/publication/pac1019.pdf]]
Second, the government …. case in point.

Dialogue over major security issues solves back the tensions stemming from the relocation of Futenma – a key source of contention currently within the U.S. Japan Alliance 
Hitoshi Tanaka is a senior fellow at Japan Centre for International Exchange. He previously served as Japan’s deputy minister for foreign affairs, February 16, 2010, “The U.S.- Japan Alliance: Beyond Futenma “
http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/02/16/the-us-japan-alliance-beyond-futenma ) SM
For this purpose, the …than negotiate as adversaries

US public explanation of the importance of Futenma is critical for the alliance. 
Bruce Klingner - visiting fellow at the Center for a New American Security. He contributes to the Asia-Pacific Security Program and other initiatives, a Japan Policy Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and an Adjunct Research Associate with the Institute for Defense Analyses. Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. 4/21/2010. The Heritage Foundation. “Futenma Cast Shadow Over US Japan Alliance”. [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/04/Futenma-Cast-Shadow-Over-US-Japan-Alliance]]. 
The Obama Administration …these countries share. 


===**Tax Reform Disad**=== 



1nC

First is the uniqueness—Kan is pushing a consumption tax as part of the overall budget process—he has borderline support, but won’t be able to pass it unless he gets coalitions to form a majority in the Lower House—closing Okinawan bases gets key players like the SDP on board and passes tax reform
Sekiguchi, Correspondent for Dow Jones NewsWires, responding for Wall Street Journal, February 17, 2011
Toko, Wall Street Journal, “Japan Government Vows to Overcome Parliamentary Stalemate,” February 17, http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110217-703419.html, last accessed 3.10.11 [RG]
TOKYO (Dow Jones)--Japan's …. the southern island prefectue of Okinawa. 

Next is the link—Kan’s public popularity is failing due to incompetent handling of foreign policy issues – solving the base issue reverse’s his trend of declining public popularity 
CSM, 2010
China-Japan spat drives plunge ….. they won’t forget in a hurry.

And deferring to the public is key—solves splinter within the DPJ and helps get opposition parties on board
Japan Times, March 3, 2011
Japan Times, “Budget Hurdles Ahead,” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/ed20110303a1.html, last accessed 3.10.11 [RG]
It is clear that given the nation's …… slogan from the July 2010 Upper House election.

And, tax reform would destroy economic growth and collapse Japan’s economy—empirics and experts prove
Reuters, 2011 
Tetsushi Kajimoto, “Japan’s Prospective sales tax hike, impact on economy,” January 26, http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/01/26/japan-economy-tax-idUSTOE70P00S20110126?page%20Number=1, last accessed 3.10.11 [RG]
Economists warn that announcing plans for a ….. a rise would boost core inflation by 4.5 percentage points.

And, Japanese downturn collapses the global economy—leads to Asian instability that turns case
Auslin, American Enterprise Institute’s director of Japan Studies, former associate professor of history and senior research fellow, MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale University, named a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum, a Marshall Memorial Fellow by the German Marshall Fund, a Fulbright and Japan Foundation Scholar, 2009
Michael, Wall Street Journal, “Japan’s Downturn is Bad News for the World,” February 17, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html, last accessed 3.10.11 [RG]
Recently, many economists and …. in the world's most heavily armed region.

And, economic decline causes global war—empirically proven
Mead, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2009 
Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2, last accessed 7.6.09 [RG]
If financial crises have been a …. economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

Block

And, Kan is pushing tax reform now, but it’ll be difficult—it would be the method for financing the budget bill their advantage talks about
BBC News, March 7, 2011
Roland Buerk, “Japan political stalemate undermining economic recovery,” http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-12665058, last accessed 3.8.11 [RG]

Prime Minister Kan has made ….. income, such as consumption tax."
And, Kan’s pushing tax reform—key members in his cabinet believe it’s necessary to fund the budget
Bloomberg, February 20, 2011
“Japanese Official: Doubling of Sales Tax Needed to Shore Up Finances,” http://cryptogon.com/?p=20632, last accessed 3.10.11 [RG]
Japan needs to more than …. market reaction will become a concern.”

And, all their consumption tax good args don’t assumes timing—hiking taxes in the midst of an economic recovery would decimate growth
Kyodo News, February 5, 2011
“Timing of Sales Tax Hike Hinges on Stable Recovery: Yosano,” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nb20110205a2.html, last accessed 3.8.11 [RG]
Whether the economy can …. only be considered after the economy recovers. 

===**Deterrence Disad**=== 

1nC

Link—marines on Okinawa are essential to our deterrent capabilities—first-response abilities are key—other countries would perceive a decrease in our presence—and, removing piecemeal aspects of our forces doesn’t cut it
Roos, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Japan, 2010
John V., Waseda University Organization for Japan-U.S. Studies, “The Enduring Importance of Our Security Alliance,” January 29, http://tokyo.usembassy.gov/e/p/tp-20100129-71.html, last accessed 2.26.11 [RG]
The fundamental role of U.S. …. to use them in a real conflict.

And, deterrent credibility ensures peace—empirics prove—multiple flashpoints for conflict across Taiwan and Korea
Roos, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Japan, 2010
John V., Waseda University Organization for Japan-U.S. Studies, “The Enduring Importance of Our Security Alliance,” January 29, http://tokyo.usembassy.gov/e/p/tp-20100129-71.html, last accessed 2.26.11 [RG]
As we look back, our two countries can take pride in the …. force in this area of the world.

And, that turns back their China deterrence impacts—and North Korean aggression escalates to nuclear war, multiple reasons, that’s the biggest existential threat
Hayes, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, and Hamel-Green, Executive Dean, Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, 2009
Peter, and Michael, Nautilus Institute, “The path not taken, the way still open: denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” September 18, 
http://www.nautilus.org/projects/A-J-disarm/research-workshop/drafts/hayes-hamel-green.pdf/view?searchterm=rmit, last accessed 9.23.10 [RG]
The international community is increasingly ….. consideration from the international community. 

Block

And, even piecemeal relocation of the marines crushes deterrence—integrated capabilities are key
Lawless, former deputy undersecretary of the Department of Defense in charge of Asia-Pacific affairs, 2010
Richard P., Asahi Shimbun, interview with Yoichi Kato, “Former U.S. Official: Japan could lose entire Marine presence if Henoko plan scrapped,” March 5, http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201003040361.html, last accessed 2.26.11 [RG]
A: Yes, by the Japanese government. But in ….. in Japan, our forward-basing in Japan.

And, Futenma isn’t “just one base”—closing it strains Kadena and takes away a key combat runway—that has ripple effects through Japan, hurting overall deterrent capabilities—answers “Guam Shift” arguments
FRF – “Futenma Replacement Facility”
Klinger, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, 2009
Bruce, Heritage, “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment,” December 16, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2009/12/us-should-stay-firm-on-implementation-of-okinawa-force-realignment, last accessed 3.10.11 [RG]
Redeploying to Guam …. which is impossible given the tyranny of distance.

And, Futenma is uniquely key to updating our force posture—relocations don’t work
Lawless, former deputy undersecretary of the Department of Defense in charge of Asia-Pacific affairs, 2010
Richard P., Asahi Shimbun, interview with Yoichi Kato, “Former U.S. Official: Japan could lose entire Marine presence if Henoko plan scrapped,” March 5, http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201003040361.html, last accessed 2.26.11 [RG]
If the Hatoyama administration fails to …. to keep the alliance strong, relevant and credible. 

And, plan is seen as a reversal of deterrence capabilities—the DPJ and U.S. just came to a consensus that the Futenma relocation is key strengthening the alliance
Feldman, Managing Director, Morgan Stanley Japan, Ltd., PhD in Economics, MIT, 2011
Robert Alan, “Ten Contradictions: Policy Paralyzed through April at Least,” January 27, http://www.morganstanley.com/views/gef/archive/2011/20110127-Thu.html, last accessed 3.8.11 [RG]
After a long and difficult negotiation, the DPJ ….. to implement this solution.

And, empirics proves—China perceived a weakness because of our fighting over the base issue—the solution was not closure, but reaffirming the importance of the base—the status quo solved perception, only a risk the plan derails it
Dawson, editor, Wall Street Journal, and Hayashi, editor, Wall Street Journal, 2010
Chester and Yuka, Wall Street Journal, “U.S.-Japan Relations Warm,” November 12, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704756804575607953039811866.html, last accessed 3.8.11 [RG]
TOKYO—When President Barack Obama arrives ….. and took advantage of it."


===**Rearm Disad**=== 


1nC

Japan nuclearization is unlikely in the status quo—effective security guarantees prevent it, but the door remains open—no significant political constraints
Hughes, doctoral candidate in the Department of Political Science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 2007
Llewelyn, International Security, “Why Japan Will Not Go Nuclear (Yet) International and Domestic Constraints on the Nuclearization of Japan,” Vol. 31, No. 4, Spring, Project Muse, last accessed 9.2.10 [RG]
The article has three main findings. ….. from developing an independent nuclear deterrent.

Empirically proven that troop reductions trigger nuclearization—perception magnifies the link
Yoshihara, Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Associate Professor of Strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, and Holmes, Senior Research Associate at the University of Georgia Center for International Trade and Security, Associate Professor of Strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, 2009
Toshi, James R., Naval War College Review, “Thinking about the unthinkable: Tokyo’s nuclear option,” Summer, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_3_62/ai_n32144580/, last accessed 9.3.10 [RG]
What would it take to empower …. possibility of a Japanese nuclear option.

Japanese rearm sparks a regional arms race, destabilizes East Asia
Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, and Nikitin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, 2009
Emma, and Mary Beth, Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19, italy.usembassy.gov/pdf/other/RL34487.pdf, last accessed 9.1.10 [RG]
While Japanese public opinion remains, by …. potential stabilizing factors. 

That goes nuclear, draws in major powers
Dibbs, Director Strategic and Defense Studies Centre, School of Pacific and Asian Studies, Australian National University, 2001
Paul, Naval War College Review, Vol. 54, Iss. 1, “Strategic trends: Asia at a crossroads,” Winter, Proquest, last accessed 9.4.10 [RG]
The areas of maximum danger ….. when confronted with major crises. 

Block

Brink—Japan rearm remains unlikely, but new momentum is hinting towards nuclearization—only a strong U.S. military commitment can prevent it
Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, and Nikitin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, CRS Report for Congress, 2009
Emma, and Mary Beth, Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19, italy.usembassy.gov/pdf/other/RL34487.pdf, last accessed 9.1.10 [RG]
While Japanese public opinion …… reconsider its position on nuclear weapons. 


And, just the U.S. nuclear guarantee isn’t enough to deter nuclearization—troops on the ground are key to a credible nuclear umbrell
Nye, Professor of International Relations at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, previously served as the dean there, 2009
Joseph S., Jr., Korea Times, “Will US-Japan alliance survive?,” July 14, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2009/07/137_48423.html [RG]
Japan officially endorses the …… in its relations with Asia.


Troops are key to the tripwire effect—presence ensures that the U.S. has an incentive to protect its own soldiers as well as the host country
Schoff, Associate Director of Asia-Pacific Studies, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, 2009
James L, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, “Realigning Priorities: The U.S.-Japan Alliance and the Future of Extended Deterrence,” March, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/RealignPriorities.pdf, last accessed 9.3.10 [RG]
Many Japanese scholars are quick to …… exacerbate the decoupling problem for Japan. 


And, perception is uniquely key—the new DPJ government believes U.S. troops are a symbol of the U.S. nuclear deterrent
Nye, Professor of International Relations at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, previously served as the dean there, 2009
Joseph S., Jr., being interviewed by Satoshi Ogawa, of the Yomiuri Shimbun, The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo), “Transfer of Power; DPJ win ‘to boost soft power’,” September 2, Lexis/Nexis [RG]
Q: Some experts are concerned …… the forward presence of American troops.


And, troop levels are key—Japan worries that a U.S. drawdown would signal a weakening of the “nuclear guarantee”—we’re on the brink now, there’s already ambiguity in the deterrence umbrella
Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, and Nikitin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, CRS Report for Congress, 2009
Emma, and Mary Beth, Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19, italy.usembassy.gov/pdf/other/RL34487.pdf, last accessed 9.1.10 [RG]
While Japanese public opinion remains, by most …… on the virtue on strategic ambiguity.30

And, withdrawal of troops is perceived as a decrease in the U.S. nuclear umbrella—the two are intrinsically linked
Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, and Nikitin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, CRS Report for Congress, 2009
Emma, and Mary Beth, Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19, italy.usembassy.gov/pdf/other/RL34487.pdf, last accessed 9.1.10 [RG]
While Japanese public opinion remains, …… on protection by the U.S. nuclear arsenal. 

And, withdrawal sparks Japanese rearm—causes Japan to perceive a decrease in the security umbrella
Yoshihara, Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Associate Professor of Strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, and Holmes, Senior Research Associate at the University of Georgia Center for International Trade and Security, Associate Professor of Strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, 2009
Toshi, James R., Naval War College Review, “Thinking about the unthinkable: Tokyo’s nuclear option,” Summer, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_3_62/ai_n32144580/, last accessed 9.3.10 [RG]
Persuasive rhetoric toward …… should security conditions continue to decay in East Asia.

And, our argument is empirically proven—tripwire forces legitimate extended deterrence and hold back proliferation
Davis et al., Executive Vice President of the Institute for Foreign Analysis, 2009
Jacquelyn, with Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff, Jr., Dr. Charles M. Perry, and James L. Schoff, IFPA, “Updating U.S. Deterrence and Operational Planning: Reassuring Allies, Deterring Legacy Threats, and Dissuading Nuclear Wannabes,” February, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Updating_US_Deterrence_Concepts.pdf, last accessed 9.4.10 [RG]
No such formula was put into place in Asia, which in any case lacked a multilateral framework comparable to that of NATO. Instead, for Japan and South Korea, the U.S. extended deterrence …… would come to their defense if necessary. 

Prefer our perception links—now is the key time—Japan is worried that the U.S. will reduce its presence to avoid getting into conflicts with an aggressive North Korea and rising China—plan is perceived as the U.S. “cutting and running”
Schoff, Associate Director of Asia-Pacific Studies, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, 2009
James L, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, “Realigning Priorities: The U.S.-Japan Alliance and the Future of Extended Deterrence,” March, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/RealignPriorities.pdf, last accessed 9.3.10 [RG] 
In the twenty-first century, Japan’s security …… (and they are explained in this report).


And, our impacts have a fast timeframe—Japan rearms over “a long weekend”
Yoshihara, Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Associate Professor of Strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, and Holmes, Senior Research Associate at the University of Georgia Center for International Trade and Security, Associate Professor of Strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, 2009
Toshi, James R., Naval War College Review, “Thinking about the unthinkable: Tokyo’s nuclear option,” Summer, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_3_62/ai_n32144580/, last accessed 9.3.10 [RG]
Will Japan go nuclear? Doubtful--but what …… few hours to several months." (3)

And, high magnitude outweighs their probability claims
Allison, Professor at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, 2007
Graham, The National Interest, “The Three ‘Nos’ Knows,” November/December, http://www.nationalinterest.org/article/the-three-nos-knows-1843, last accessed 9.3.10 [RG]
MUELLER IS entitled …… when considering how we should respond to the threat.

And, Japanese rearm triggers arms races and instability—makes conflict over current disputed areas more likely
Robinson, Professor at Edith Cowan University (Australia), 2010
David, Journal of Asia Pacific Studies, Vol. 1, No. 2, “Why the West Should Discoursage Japanese Military Expansion,” March, http://www.japss.org/upload/10.robinson.pdf, last accessed 9.4.10 [RG]
Japan’s Self-Defense Force is already …… might develop [Matthews, 2003, p81]. 


And, Japanese rearm increases instability—neighboring countries are inherently hostile to Japan, see rearm as aggressive
Kaufman, graduate of Yale University, Adjunct Professor at the University of Puerto Rico Law School, completing his PhD in International Relations at the University of Oxford, 2008
Zachary D., Yale Journal of International Law, “No Right to Fight: The Modern Implications of Japan’s Pacifist Postwar Constitution,” http://www.yale.edu/yjil/PDFs/vol_33/Recent_Developments_v33_1.pdf, last accessed 9.4.10 [RG]
Japan’s full and unambiguous …… it even further from China.”47


===**Alliance/Kickout Advantage**=== 


Security cooperation structurally strong now—our evidence is predictive
- DPJ FoPo = more open to U.S. than LDP – structurally speaking
- Momentum towards active foreign policy and cooperation with the U.S. – SDF expansion proves
- Export controls being lifted in defense sector
Green, Senior advisor and Japan Chair, Center for Strategic and International Studies, assistant professor at Georgetown University, and Szechenyi, deputy director, fellow, Office of the Japan Chair, CSIS, 2010
Michael J. and Nicholas, CSIS, “Green Shoots in the U.S.-Japan Alliance,” November 9, http://csis.org/publication/japan-chair-platform-green-shoots-us-japan-alliance, last accessed 1.25.11 [RG]
What a difference a year makes. Last fall ….. not reimposed some strategic priorities in Japan’s foreign policy.


Their evidence is old news – the foundation of the alliance is rock solid despite disputes over Futenma
Hornung, Associate Professor Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, December 10, 2010
[Jeffrey, “More than Futenma,” http://csis.org/files/publication/pac1061.pdf] SM
Since former Prime Minister … more than Futenma. 

Recent North Korean provocations have solidified the need for a solid U.S. Japan Alliance – outweighs domestic concerns 
Zhaokui, researcher with the Institute of Japanese Studies at the [[http://china.globaltimes.cn/|Chinese]] Academy of Social Sciences, December 2, 2010 [Global Times, Feng “North Korea a convenient threat for US-Japan alliance,” http://opinion.globaltimes.cn/commentary/2010-12/598292_2.html] SM
Of course, numerous … fire upon themselves.


No Internal Link - Anti-base movements can spread but they can’t shape policy outcome - a pro-U.S. consensus and structural constraints drowns out activists voices 
Yeo, Assistant Professor in the Department of Politics @ Catholic University of America, Washington DC. June 23, 2010 [Andrew “Anti-Base Movements in South Korea: Comparative Perspective on the Asia-Pacific,” [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/anti-base_movements_in_south_korea]]) SM
Although anti-base … of U.S. military presence.

Increased host nation support and U.S. support of Japan during South China Sea disputes
Hornung, Associate Professor Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, December 10, 2010 [Jeffrey, “More than Futenma,” [[http://csis.org/files/publication/pac1061.pdf%5DSM|http://csis.org/files/publication/pac1061.pdf]SM]]
Sound Fundamentals Consider …Japan’s financial burden.

Closing Futenma would be a key victory for the anti-basing movements—catalyzes support to eventually kick us out of Japan altogether and weaken our presence in the Pacific
Feffer, co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus, Institute for Policy Studies, 2010
John, Asia Times, “Okinawa and the New Domino Effect,” March 6, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html, last accessed 3.10.11 [RG]
Wherever the US military puts down its foot overseas, ….. in which direction the exit arrow is pointing.

No chance of kickout now—debate is confined to Futenma relocation—withdrawing troops from Okinawa shifts and gives momentum towards a full kickout
Feffer, co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus, Institute for Policy Studies, 2010
John, FPIF, “Right Wing Loonies Support Okinawa Base Relocation,” June 24, http://www.fpif.org/blog/right-wing_loonies_support_okinawa_base_relocation?q=Tag%3Ainternet, last accessed 3.10.11 [RG]
This was a curious string of half- …….. the imaginary campaign to expel the U.S. military from Japan.


And, anti-basing movements pocket concessions, only a risk we get kicked out of Kadena
Melton, Col., former marine attaché at the U.S. Embassy Tokyo, currently serves as the assistant chief of staff, U.S. Marine Corps Bases, Japan, and Eldridge, Ph.D., former tenured associate professor of U.S. Japan relations and Okinawan History, Osaka University, 2010 
Dan and Robert, The Daily Yomiuri, “U.S. Marine Presence in Okawna Pref. essential,” March, http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100304dy01.htm, last accessed 2.27.11 [RG]
The implied argument in the op- …… Air Base, which would further degrade alliance capabilities.


==Iraq Negative [TFA State]== 

===Stability Advantage=== 

Turn—withdrawal of noncombat troops reverses current progress—status quo forces are key to maintaining a stable transition
Boot, Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, Senior Fellow for National Security Studies, December, 2010
Max, Commentary Magazine, “Iraq’s Democracy Works but Needs Continued U.S. Presence for Long-Term Survival,” December 21, http://www.commentarymagazine.com/blogs/index.php/boot/384787, last accessed 1.11.11 [RG]
Iraq continues to make progress — slow, ….. gave so much to achieve will last for the long-term.

Violence is under control now—withdrawal of remaining troops destabilizes Iraq—even if the troops are just noncombat, waiting in bases, they provide a credible deterrent to groups trying to destabilize Iraq
Kaplow, former Baghdad bureau chief for Newsweek, November, 2010
Larry, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: Iraq,” November 15, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/15/think_again_iraq?page=0,4, last accessed 1.11.11 [RG]
The killing sure hasn't stopped, ….. to Iraq and stitch it back together. 


Continued U.S. presence is key to prevent multiple flashpoints for war—star this card—it lists out multiple conflict zones that would escalate without a residual U.S. presence
- Making sure former Sunni insurgents maintain support for the government, preventing conflict between Kurds, stop aggression
Pollack et al., Director, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Brookings, December, 2010
Kenneth, Raad Alkadiri, J. Scott Carpenter, Frederick W. Kagan, and Joost Hiltermann, Brookings, “Unifinished Business: An American Strategy for Iraq Moving Forward,” December, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/12_iraq_strategy_pollack.aspx, last accessed 1.11.11 [RG]
Flowing from the preeminent American ….. and Baghdad that resolve all of their key differences.

U.S. military presence key to prevent Iraqi aggression and deter a regional arms race
Pollack et al., Director, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Brookings, December, 2010
Kenneth, Raad Alkadiri, J. Scott Carpenter, Frederick W. Kagan, and Joost Hiltermann, Brookings, “Unifinished Business: An American Strategy for Iraq Moving Forward,” December, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/12_iraq_strategy_pollack.aspx, last accessed 1.11.11 [RG]
In all of these post-Saddam cases, the Iraqi response ….. the region, possibly stoking a regional arms race.


And, withdrawal makes Iraqi aggression more likely because they feel less secure—spills over
Pollack et al., Director, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Brookings, December, 2010
Kenneth, Raad Alkadiri, J. Scott Carpenter, Frederick W. Kagan, and Joost Hiltermann, Brookings, “Unifinished Business: An American Strategy for Iraq Moving Forward,” December, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/12_iraq_strategy_pollack.aspx, last accessed 1.11.11 [RG]
The United States should retain its ….. United States to retain forces in their country.

U.S. troops are key to maintain Iraqi CMR and prevent a coup—deter aggression and challenges, help make the ISF more professional and respect CMR
Pollack et al., Director, Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Brookings, December, 2010
Kenneth, Raad Alkadiri, J. Scott Carpenter, Frederick W. Kagan, and Joost Hiltermann, Brookings, “Unifinished Business: An American Strategy for Iraq Moving Forward,” December, http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2010/12_iraq_strategy_pollack.aspx, last accessed 1.11.11 [RG]
In 1932, Iraq celebrated its independence ….. officers with more politically reliable ones.