[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===1AC - Greenhill=== 

**Plan: the United States federal government Should close all secret detention centers located in Afghanistan and remove their assigned personnel from the country.**

**Contention 1: Inherency**

**THE REGIME OF TORTURE IMPLEMENTED IN THE NAME OF THE WAR ON TERROR HAS NOT ENDED WITH THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION—ALTHOUGH GUANTANAMO IS BEING “CLOSED”, THE SECRET PRISON AT BAGRAM AIRBASE IN AFGHANISTAN REMAINS**
**GEBAUER ET AL 09** (JOURNALIST AT DER SPIEFEL, [MATTHIAS, JOHN, BRITTA, “PRISONER ABUSE CONTINUES AT BAGRAM PRISON IN AFGHANISTAN,” 9/21, HTTP://WWW.SPIEGEL.DE/INTERNATIONAL/WORLD/0,1518,650242,00.HTML])//

//Bagram is "the forgotten second Guantanamo," says American military ,... opportunity to testify in their cases. Some have been there for years, without knowing why.//


//**AND DESPITE GESTURES TOWARD REFORM, OBAMA’S COMMITMENT TO A CONTRIVED BATTLEFIELD EXCEPTION TO HABEAS CORPUS HAS LEAD TO SECRET PRISONS METASTASIZING THROUGHOUT AFGHANISTAN**//
//**WORTHINGTON 10** (JOURNALIST, MAY 2ND, [ANDY, “BAGRAM: GRAVEYARD OF THE GENEVA CONVENTIONS,” 5.2.10, WWW.ANDYWORTHINGTON.CO.UK/2010/02/05/BAGRAM-GRAVEYARD-OF-THE-GENEVA-CONVENTIONS/])//

//Importing Guantánamo-style reviews to Bagram In an attempt to stifle ...and what is needed is the courage to thoroughly repudiate the brutal practices at the heart of the “War on Terror.”//


**Advantage 1: Torture**


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Today, the tortured body of the prisoner in the dark chamber at Bagram is the most extreme example of biopolitics—here, life is totally captured by politics and the distinction between totalitarianism and democracy becomes indiscernible </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dabashi</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">**,** Professor of Iranian Studies and Comparative Literature at Columbia University, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">20**08**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> [Hamid, //Islamic Liberation Theology,// pp. 260-1] </span>

<span style="margin-right: 0.5in;">Beginning with a simple but frightful distinction that he makes between …. We are the bare life, our lives the zoe¨ of their polis. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And, torture is the crucial internal link between the slide from a benign biopolitics of life to necropolitical extermination of dangerous populations—torture is where biopolitics draws the line between who must be made to live and who can be left to die </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Morton 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Senior Lecturer in Anglophone Literatures, University of Southampton, [Stephen, “Torture, Terrorism snd Colonial Sovereignty,” //Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society//, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 192-194]) </span>

<span style="margin-right: 0.5in;">III It is precisely this understanding of the political that Foucault articulates …. to make sense of contemporary formations of biopolitical and necropolitical control. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ultimately, this slide into the dark side of biopolitics makes possible the worst forms of global violence—total warfare, genocide, and nuclear annihilation </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Marks 08 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Associate Professor in French, University of Nottingham, </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">20</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> [John, “Michel Foucault: Biopolitics and Biology,” //Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society//, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 97-98]) </span>

<span style="margin-right: 0.5in;">Although biopower in this sense has a relatively benign focus …. the plan to exterminate the Jewish ‘race’ and all other internal enemies of the Nazi state, and to the attempt to bring about the ‘suicide’ of the entire German population.12 </span>



//**Advantage 2: Racism**//

//**JUSTIFYING TORTURE EQUATES TO A JUSTIFICATION OF THE RACIST STEREOTYPES THAT FORM OUR ORIENTALISM VIEW OF DETAINEES AS RADICAL ISLAMISTS**//
//**DUSS 09** (MATT, WRITER FOR THINK PROGRESS, “ORIENTALISM IN DEFENSE OF TORTURE UNNECESSARY”, 4/24/09, HTTP://WONKROOM.THINKPROGRESS.ORG/?P=8193, [CL]) 

As has probably been the case since the beginning of ... of their faith. And certainly not to the extent that would justify the United States’ violating its prohibition on torture. 


**Detention at Bagram has made Muslim synonymous with terrorist- this racialized reduction creates further power dichotomies throughout social relations**
**PHILIPOSE 07** (DEPARTMENT OF WOMEN’S STUDIES CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, LONG BEACH THE POLITICS OF PAIN AND THE USES OF TORTURE OURNAL OF WOMEN IN CULTURE AND SOCIETY 2007, VOL. 32, NO. 4 WALDMAN) 

Since September 11, 2001, the equation of ... uses of images of torture 

**Through this Racialization we exonerate ourselves assuaging our guilt- we are the righteous ‘they’ are the terrorist**
**PHILIPOSE 2007**(Department of Women’s Studies California State University, Long Beach The Politics of Pain and the Uses of Torture ournal of Women in Culture and Society 2007, vol. 32, no. 4 Waldman) 

Operating through a regime of visibility, racialization maps the ... undifferentiated masses. In contrast, white people “are imagined as individuals and as endlessly and ethnically diverse” (Apel 2004, 26). 

**This racialized framing justifies lawless genocide**
**PHILIPOSE 07** (Department of Women’s Studies California State University, Long Beach The Politics of Pain and the Uses of Torture ournal of Women in Culture and Society 2007, vol. 32, no. 4 Waldman) 

The terrorist occupies its own discursive field in Western imaginations, ... or the right to a legal defense: “By placing himself voluntarily outside of the law, the terrorist loses his claim on the law” (Porras 1995, 307). 
**Contention 2: Solvency**

**EVEN IF WE FAIL TO SOLVE ALL TORTURE, THE PLAN IS A CRUCIAL FIRST STEP TO CHALLENGE THE JUSTIFICATIONS FOR TORTURE AND TO MOBILIZE RESISTANCE**
**HAJJAR 02** (ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, LAW & SOCIETY PROGRAM, U.C.-SANTA BARBARA, [LISA, “SOVEREIGN BODIES, SOVEREIGN STATES AND THE PROBLEM OF TORTURE,” QUEST: AN AFRICAN JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY, XVI, 1-2 (2002), HTTP://QUEST-JOURNAL.NET/VOL_XVI/HAJJAR.PDF, P. 118-119]) 

Fifth, the struggle against torture is among the most ... the world.20 More importantly, this empowerment is dynamic, as indicated by the burgeoning attention to human-rights laws and the influence of human-rights organizations on international politics.21 


**TORTURE MUST BE OPPOSED ABSOLUTELY—ONLY FLAT OUT REJECTION OF TORTURE IN ALL CASES IS TRULY ETHICAL.**
**ZIZEK 02** (SENIOR RESEARCHER AT THE INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL STUDIES, LJUBLJANA, [SLAVOJ, WELCOME TO THE DESERT OF THE REAL!, P. 102-106]) 

IF, THEN, AGAINST THESE MISREADINGS, WE RESIST THE ...THERE IS NO LONGER ANY NEED TO COVER ADMINISTRATIVE MEASURES WITH THE LEGAL BIG OTHER. 

**FINALLY, THIS DEMAND AGAINST TORTURE INTERRUPTS THE ABILITY OF THE STATE TO REPRODUCE VIOLENCE ON A GLOBAL SCALE—OUR ACT IS A NECESSARY STARTING POINT FOR ANY BROADER POLITICS OF PROGRESSIVE CHANGE**
**BUTLER**, PROFESSOR OF RHETORIC AT U.C.-BERKELEY 2009 [JUDITH, “FRAMES OF WAR”, PUBLISHED **2009**, PG. PG.23-29 , [CL]] 

Although precarious life is a generalized condition, ... from the constraints of all law. 

**AND DISCUSSING GOVERNMENT POLICY CREATES CRITICAL UNDERSTANDING THAT FACILITATES RESISTANCE AGAINST ITS WORST ABUSES**
**DONOVAN AND LARKIN 06** (CLAIR AND PHIL, AUSTRALIAN NATIONAL UNIVERSITY, POLITICS, VOL. 26, NO. 1) 

We do not suggest that political science should ... within the institutions they study. 

**STATE POWER IS FLEXIBLE AND OPEN TO REORIENTATION**
**KRAUSE AND WILLIAMS 97** (KEITH, PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SCIENCE – YORK U., AND MICHAEL, PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SCIENCE – U SOUTHERN MAIN, CRITICAL SECURITY STUDIES: CONCEPTS AND CASES, P. XVI) 

MANY OF THE CHAPTERS IN THIS VOLUME THUS... CONTEMPORARY WORLD POLITICS 


**CHANGE OUTSIDE THE STATE IS TEMPORARY - ONLY CHANGING ENGAGING INSTITUTIONS PRODUCES LASTING REMEDIES**
**MILBRATH ’96** (LESTER W., PROFESSOR EMERITUS OF POLITICAL SCIENCE AND SOCIOLOGY – SUNY BUFFALO, BUILDING SUSTAINABLE SOCIETIES, ED. PIRAGES, P. 289) 

In some respects personal change cannot be ... to change is not likely to be effective. 



=Negative=