[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
email: (neg cites) [[mailto:dneustadt6@gmail.com|dneustadt6@gmail.com]]
email:(aff cites) [[mailto:dmalla@gmail.com|dmalla13@gmail.com]]

==**<span style="font-size: 130%;">1AC</span>**== 

**The United States Federal Government should completely reduce its military and police presence in Iraq and Afghanistan**


**Contention 1 is mission accomplished**
**Despite the lack of any real security concern the US will never leave Iraq and Afghanistan**
**Englehardt ‘10**
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Tom, the creator of the Nation Institute's [[http://tomdispatch.com/|tomdispatch.com]], the co-founder of the American Empire Project and the author of the 1998 book, The End of Victory Culture: Cold War America and the Disillusioning of a Generation Engelhardt graduated from Yale College and took a Master's degree in Area Studies from Harvard University, where he was a founding member of the Committee of Concerned Asian Scholars. April 25, //Middle East Online//, [[http://www.middle-east-online.com/english/?id=38613]]) </span>

Yes, we could. No kidding....__in the years to come__. 

**And the so called withdrawal from Iraq is imperialism at its finest**
**Van Auken 8/20**
(Bill Van Auken, Reporter for World Socialist Web Site and candidate for president in 2004 and for senate in 2006, “Obama’s “Mission Accomplished,”” 20 August 2010, http://www.wsws.org/articles/2010/aug2010/pers-a20.shtml//DN)//

__The White House and the Pentagon__ ...<span class="DebateUnderline">policies and profit interests it defends</span>.



**<span class="Author-Date">Contention 2 is why we fight </span>**
**<span class="Author-Date">Utilitarianism is naïve- the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are the new moral basis for wars that policymakers use to liberate imperial violence. Millions of civilians have died and counting. </span>**
<span class="Author-Date">**Burke ‘4** </span>
(Anthony Burke__,__ Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, 2004__.__ [“Just War or Ethical Peace: Moral Discourses on War After 9/11,” //International Affairs<span style="font-style: normal;">, 80 (2), 329-353</span>//DN) 

In 1973 the strategist and estranged member of the...
__strategic violence provides easy solutions to complex political problems.__


**Lives in the east are not lives- they’re considered inferior to American lives- this calculus must be changed to stop perpetual violence**
**<span class="Author-Date">Gregory ‘4 </span>**
Gregory, Distinguished University Scholar and Professor of Geography at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, 2004 [Derek, //The Colonial Present: Afghanistan, Palestine, Iraq//<span style="font-style: normal;">, pp. 67-72] </span>

The war also displaced hundreds of thousands of Afghan civilians not...
__antinomies through which they preach vengeance and retribution__. 


**The sustaining of hegemony is an ultra-conservative fantasy of sustaining the status quo that ensures endless war and ultimate destruction. A strategic shift is needed.**
**<span class="Author-Date">Santos ‘3 </span>**
(Boaventura de Sousa Santos- Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, University of Coimbra - March 28 2003- online- [[http://www.ces.uc.pt/opiniao/bss/072en.php]]//DN)//
According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under... 
suffering imposed by the real axis of evil: neoliberalism plus war. 



**Thus: The United States Federal Government should completely reduce its military and police presence in Iraq and Afghanistan**


**Contention 3 is We Don’t Do Body Counts**
**We should demand that the United States immediately and unconditionally leave Afghanistan and Iraq. Continued presence or justifications sustain imperialism**
**Ely ‘9**
(Mike Ely, founder Kasama Project who was an activist in the miners wildcat strike movements of the 1970s,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> **“**</span>Demand Complete and Immediate Withdrawal from Afghanistan,<span style="font-style: normal;">”</span>//<span style="font-style: normal;"> October 9, 2009 http://kasamaproject.org/2009/10/10/we-demand-complete-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan/#more-14148 </span>//DN) 
I think what is posed in Medea Benjamin’s interview... 
<span style="color: black;">__they can do some good,” needs to be explored and engaged.__</span>

**The plan is the “nonact”- finally stopping and grieving the lives lost in these wars with no regard for utility. It’s not a question of whether war is always good or bad. If we keep putting off this recognition, their will always be violence.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Judith </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Butler**</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, Professor in the Departments of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at Berkely, 200</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**9**</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (PhD Yale, __Frames of War__, The Claim of Nonviolence, P. 146-151 //DN)// </span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">If non-violence has the opportunity...**<span style="border: medium none;">which war is wrought time and again</span>**</span></span>. 

**The selection of whom we grieve is not neutral. The faces of the people are employed to justify further violence against them. The 1AC is the disruption in this hegemonic field of representation, allowing reinvigorated relation to the faces of the Other.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Judith </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Butler**</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, Professor in the Departments of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature at Berkely, 200</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**4**</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (PhD Yale, __The Precarious Life__, July, The Precarious Life, P. 146-151 </span>DN) 
<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">The media's evacuation of the human </span></span> ... 
**__sensate__** <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">**<span style="border: medium none;">democracy they </span>**</span></span>occasionally <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">**<span style="border: medium none;">perform</span>**</span></span>. 


===2AC Cap Cards=== 

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**The only way to break down American imperialism and capitalism and end US genocide is to actively reduce our presence abroad.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Joseph </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Gerson**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, director of American Friends Service Committee, 200</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**9**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Dr. Joseph Gerson received his undergraduate degree from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and his Ph.D. in Politics and International Security Studies from the Union Institute, His books include: The Deadly Connection: Nuclear War and U.S. Intervention, The Sun Never Sets: Confronting the Network of U.S. Foreign Military Bases, and With Hiroshima Eyes: Atomic War, Nuclear Extortion and Moral Imagination, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">__The Bases of Empire__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, edited by Catherine Lutz, professor of anthropology at Brown University and the Watson Institute for International Studies, BA in sociology and anthropology from Swarthmore College and PhD in social anthropology from Harvard, “U.S. Foreign Military Bases and Military Colonialism: Personal and Analytical Perspectives,” p. 47-49//DN)// </span>
//In May 2005, __with more than 100,000__ U.S........//
//as well as for “conventional” <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">**<span style="border: medium none;">attacks</span>**</span></span>//




<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**The wars are energy imperialism, created to secure capitalist consumption of oil. This threatens life on the planet** </span>
**Foster**, <span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">Professor of Sociology</span>, ‘**8**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">(John Bellamy, Oregon, Editor of the Monthly Review “Peak Oil and Energy Imperialism,” Monthly Review 60 no3 Jl/Ag 2008</span>DN) 
The New Energy Imperialism The response in U.S. national . ....... 
This is the challenge of our time. 


<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**The particularization of the affirmative’s knowledge is key to breaking down empire** </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Joseph </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Gerson**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, director of American Friends Service Committee, 200</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**9**</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Dr. Joseph Gerson received his undergraduate degree from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service and his Ph.D. in Politics and International Security Studies from the Union Institute, His books include: The Deadly Connection: Nuclear War and U.S. Intervention, The Sun Never Sets: Confronting the Network of U.S. Foreign Military Bases, and With Hiroshima Eyes: Atomic War, Nuclear Extortion and Moral Imagination, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">__The Bases of Empire__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, edited by Catherine Lutz, professor of anthropology at Brown University and the Watson Institute for International Studies, BA in sociology and anthropology from Swarthmore College and PhD in social anthropology from Harvard, “U.S. Foreign Military Bases and Military Colonialism: Personal and Analytical Perspectives,” p. 60-61//DN)// </span>
//__In building the political forces ......__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and restoring our respect for other peoples and nations</span>//
=== === 
===2AC Beacon DF - Scranton=== 
====Perm Cards==== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The permutation combines black presences across the globe in transnational movements</span>**
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Carole Boyce </span>**Davies- 1999**<span style="font-weight: normal;">-Beyond Unicentricity: Transcultural Black Pre s e n c e s-Research in African Literatures, Volume 30, Number 2, Summer </span> 1999- http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ral/summary/v030/30.2davies.html
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">While I understand John Henrik Clarke’s</span> ... 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">interrelated beyond the “centricity” logic.</span>

**Only the perms intersectional approach solves.**
<span style="font-weight: normal;">John </span>**Munro** <span style="font-weight: normal;">- doctoral candidate in history at UC Santa Barbara- **200**</span>**8**<span style="font-weight: normal;">- </span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Empire and Intersectionality. Notes on the Production of Knowledge about US Imperialism –online- http://www.stonybrook.edu/globality/Articles/no12.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(45) Well-known public intellectual Noam</span> ... imperialism in global history.

**Focus on global issues is a prerequisite for local movements – avoids dangerous provincial thinking**
**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Sen 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, (Amartya, Nobel Prize-Winning Economist, Professor of Economics and Philosophy at Harvard University, “Identity and Violence: The Illusion of Destiny,” pg. 122-124)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">I will presently go into the substantive questions raised by the protesters, and by others skeptical of globalization, and I shall also have to examine the counterarguments presented by the defenders of globalization. But before that, I want to comment briefly on the nature of global identity involved-explicitly or by implication- in these debates. Some overarching critics of globalization see themselves as forcefully pointing to the deplorable absence, in a heartless world, of an effective sense of global solidarity. Certainly, there is much to be depressed about in the manifest lack of an effective global morality in dealing with deeply distressing international issues. But do we really live in a morally sequestered world? If a sense of a global solidarity is really so nonsensical, why should so many people around the world (including the "antiglobalization" protesters and indeed a great many others) be so upset about the state of the world and argue passionately-if noisily-for a better deal for the disadvantaged and deprived? The protesters themselves come from all over the world-they are not just local inhabitants of Seattle or Melbourne or Genoa or Edinburgh. The dissidents try to work together to protest about what they see as serious iniquity or injustice that plagues the people of the world. Why should women and men from one part of the world worry about the fact that people in other parts of the world are getting a raw deal if there is no sense of global belonging and no concern about global unfairness? Global discontent, to which the protest movements give voice (sometimes, admittedly, a very rough voice), can be seen as evidence of the existence of a sense of global identity and some concern about global ethics. I must presently discuss why the term "antiglobalization" is not a good description of the nature of the discontent that goes under that name. But no matter what we call it, that borderless discontent is itself a major global phenomenon, both in terms of the subject of its concern (including its implicitly humanitarian ethics and inclusive politics) and in the form of the wide interest and involvement it generates across the world. The sense of extensive identity underlying these concerns goes well beyond the borders of nationality, culture, community, or religion. It is hard to miss the powerfully inclusive idea of belonging that moves so many people to challenge what they see as unfairness that divides the world population. Indeed, the so-called antiglobalization critique is perhaps the most globalized moral movement in the world today.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">We read three non-violence cards from this Moore article as benefits to the perm</span>**
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Carol </span>Moore<span style="font-weight: normal;">- ethicist and systems theorist - 19</span>98<span style="font-weight: normal;">- Original published in 1985 in The Peacemaker, Peace Conversion Times and the Green Letter. NON-VIOLENCE AND DECENTRALIZATION- Online- http://www.secession.net/nv-decentralism.html</span>
2AC - 

Those of us who believe that humans should conduct our affairs non-violently should not be afraid of the radically...As Gandhi said, the only way to peace is peace itself.


**__Mahatma Gandhi often said that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">non-violence and freedom are inextricably intertwined</span>.__**<span style="font-weight: normal;"> In the first half of...</span> **__more likely to come over to the side of the activists than ones afraid of being shot and killed by protesters.__**

1AR - 
Political violence harms groups and movements. It destroys public sympathy... Resisters League and Peacekeepers International are continuing to spread these ideas and strategies worldwide. 






====Performance Card==== 
**Performance is not measurable**
Shirley **Pendlebury**, Professor of Education, head, Division of Curriculum, University of the Witwatersrand, in The Routledge Falmer Reader in Philosophy of Education, Wilfred Carr, **2005**, p. 57 
<span style="margin-left: 0.2in;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">__Performative pedagogy__</span> calls on the ... </span>
//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">conditions for fulfilling the definitive ends of her practice (cf Pendlebury 1995).</span>//

====Case Outweighs/Matters Card==== 
The War on Terror and specifically in invasions of Iraq and Afghanistan hurts American people of color. Ending it is a critical step in ending domestic warfare 
<span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">Manning </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Marable</span><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">- Professor of Public Affairs, Political Science, History and African-American Studies at Columbia University – 20</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">06 </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Empire, Racism, and Resistance. Black Commentator Editorial Board- Online- http://www.blackcommentator.com/211/211_cover_manley_speech_marable_ed_bd.html] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">The long-term catastrophe of the terrorist attacks </span> ... 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">intolerance and </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">exclusion that preserved white power</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


The war on terror fuels securitization and policing at home - the aff’s protest is key to the alternative
Graham 6 
Cities and the ‘War on Terror’ STEPHEN GRAHAM Volume 30.2 June 2006 255–76 International Journal of Urban and Regional Research Prof in Dept of Geography @ Durham University
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">The ‘domestic front’ in the ‘war on terror’ First, </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">the homeland </span></span> ... 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">the nondescript grey boxes equipped with radar antennae, that are meant to sniff pathogens in the air (2004: 6).</span>

====Framework==== 
**Vague alts jack solvency – its impossible to test their claims, making them into politicians who merely try to sway people to their actions – turns the alt**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Galles 9 </span>** <span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">(Gary, Professor of Economics at Pepperdine, “Vagueness as a Political Strategy,” March 2, http://blog.mises.org/archives/author/gary_gallesDM) </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In the Los Angeles Times, writer Bob Rosenblatt characterized President Obama’s strategy for his health care proposal as “Give me a bunch of money, and we’ll figure out the details later how we are going to manage this thing.” In other words, its key element is vagueness....</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">virtually </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">**<span style="border: medium none;">ensures bad policy</span>**</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">, if Americans’ welfare is the criterion.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Education and political training –Even if intuitions are racist, not focusing on them allows their racism to go unchecked, which is net worse. This isn’t an argument that we need our plan to affect politics specifically, but that we can speak truth to power and learning the language of policy and articulating demands is an important part of social change.**</span>
**Themba-Nixon** <span style="font-weight: normal;"> Executive Director of The Praxis Project, a nonprofit organization helping communities use media and policy advocacy to advance their welfare- </span>**2k**<span style="font-size: 9pt; margin-left: 0.5in;">[makani, Changing the rules what public policy means for organizing Colorlines 3.2]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">In essence, </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">policies are the codification of power relationships </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">and resource </span> ... 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">And then we must be committed to making it so. </span>



====Americacentrism DA==== 
Their strategy is inherently Americacentrist – erasing the history of differences in cultures and remaining embedded in Eurocentric ideals and strategies. 
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Carole Boyce </span>Davies<span style="font-weight: normal;">- 19</span>99<span style="font-weight: normal;">-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Beyond Unicentricity: Transcultural Black Pre s e n c e s-Research in African Literatures, Volume 30, Number 2, Summer </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">1999- http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ral/summary/v030/30.2davies.html </span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">US-centrism</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">, following Eurocentrism, </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">identifies</span></span> ... 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">the founding of Liberia, and the Garv e y movement—that Africans in the West are most equipped to re t u rn to develop the continent. Additionally, unlike concepts such as Diaspora, t h e re is no way of accounting for historical imbrications, overlapping Diaspora and centers, and the truly crosscultural or transcultural.</span>


====Cap DA (Round Robin)==== 


Joel Kovel, Prof of Politics, Against the State of Nuclear Terror, 224
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**__Will it come to revolution__**</span>**__,__**<span style="font-weight: normal;"> then?</span>... this is what seems to be preconfigured the glass when we look through nuclear terror.

**Cap leads to extinction- turns all their offense as their revolution get deployed abroad to bring the revolution against oppressors like Saddam**
**Harvey, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Professor of Anthropology City University of New York, 200</span>6**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(David, </span>The Limits to Capital, p. 442-443) 
<span class="underline">Twice in the twentieth century, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the </span></span>... 
<span class="underline">the kinds of primitive accumulation and devaluation jointly wrought through <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">inter-capitalist wars</span>.</span>

====Non - Violence is a D-Rule (Round Robin)==== 
**Even in the revolution against oppressor, killing outside the framework of direct self defense justifies all violence and destroys the very intelligibility of morality, turning all their offense as they are adopting the methodology of the oppressor**
Jim **<span class="tagChar">Holt</span>**- a commentator for the BBC in New York, writes freequently about politics and philosophy.- August 5, **19<span class="tagChar">95</span>**- Morality, Reduced To Arithmetic- online- http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=990CE7D9173FF936A3575BC0A963958260&sec=&spon=&pagewanted=all
**__Can the deliberate massacre of innocent people__** **...**
sinister legacy is plain: it has inured us to the idea of reducing innocents to instruments and morality to arithmetic




=Negative= 


==Militarism Kritik== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Link #1 - The Affirmative embraces the flawed logic of traditional peace movements. Pretending we have a voice in the formation of US military policy is politically disabling- it misidentifies the enemy and presumes a democracy that doesn’t exist. The state will never actualize base withdrawal because it wouldn’t advance its imperialist interests </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Herod </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">200</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">1 </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">[James, “A Stake, Not a Mistake: On Not Seeing the Enemy”, October, http://www.jamesherod.info/index.php?sec=paper&id=9 ] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">So although it is important to try to shatter this illusion</span>
....
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;">progressives, not and survive as an imperial power that is. </span>




**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Link #2 – The affirmative’s progressive call for legislation is the opposite of radical grassroots action directly trading off with the challenging of assumptions of white supremacy and policing that fuel militarism </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Rodriguez ‘8 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Dylan Rodríguez is Professor and Chair of the Department of Ethnic Studies at UC Riverside, where he began his teaching career in 2001. He received his Ph.D. and M.A. degrees in Ethnic Studies from the University of California, Berkeley, and earned two B.A. degrees and a Concentration degree from Cornell University. He was nationally recognized by Diverse magazine as one of its Emerging Scholars of 2006, and has been a Ford Foundation Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellow, </span>Abolition Now! P. 93-100DN)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">We are collectively witnessing, surviving, and working in a time...</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">feigning incomprehension at their silence or passiveness. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The impact is the naturalization of domestic war. The affirmative’s re-siteing of the war to the exterior of the US instructs a common sense of what war is and what war is not. War is military campaigns against other countries. War is not 3 million black men in prison. This circuit of normalization sustains the racist police state under the guise of peacekeeping. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Rodriguez ‘9 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Dylan Rodríguez is Professor and Chair of the Department of Ethnic Studies at UC Riverside, where he began his teaching career in 2001. He received his Ph.D. and M.A. degrees in Ethnic Studies from the University of California, Berkeley, and earned two B.A. degrees and a Concentration degree from Cornell University. He was nationally recognized by Diverse magazine as one of its Emerging Scholars of 2006, and has been a Ford Foundation Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellow, “The Terms of Engagement: Warfare, White Locality, and Abolition,” Critical Sociology 36(1) 151-173, 2009, P. Sage</span>DN)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">In spite of, or perhaps </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">because of, the </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">recent ... </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">its participants, enablers, victims, and strategists. </span>




<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**The alternative is pedagogy of radical dis-identification with the state. This opens up space for new forms of resistance to militarism** </span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Rodriguez</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> ‘8 </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Dylan Rodríguez is Professor and Chair of the Department of Ethnic Studies at UC Riverside, where he began his teaching career in 2001. He received his Ph.D. and M.A. degrees in Ethnic Studies from the University of California, Berkeley, and earned two B.A. degrees and a Concentration degree from Cornell University. He was nationally recognized by Diverse magazine as one of its Emerging Scholars of 2006, and has been a Ford Foundation Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellow, </span>Abolition Now! P. 93-100DN)
<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">Our historical moment suggests the need for a ... </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">aborted or </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">drowned in blood</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">.”</span>



**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">This act represents a revolution in values that is the only way to solve the Aff. Military deployments are just a symptom of the larger problem of militarism. Only a reconcepulization of how society is formed and functions allows for a rupture of the racist militarist impulses that are the root causes of the Aff harms </span></span>**
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-weight: normal;">Matthew Matt </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Birkhold</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-weight: normal;"> December 10, 200</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">7</span>** </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">(Matt Birkhold is a Brooklyn based independent scholar and educator. His work appears regularly in Wiretap and he has also written for The Nation and Mother Jones. He is founder of Political Education Outreach Collective and editor of the forthcoming National Hip Hop Political Convention publication, Elements, PhD candidate at SUNY Binghampton, has taught at Temple University, the University of Utah and La Salle University, “War, the Military Industrial Complex, and the Future Importance of Dr. King”- Online- http://www.youngpeoplefor.org/blog/posts/1426’</span></span>DN)
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">In most progressive and leftist circles, the cause of the war</span></span> ...<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> created by the tripe evils of racism, militarism and economic exploitation. </span></span>



==Other 1NC Militarism Cards== 
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">The affirmatives construction of a strategic withdrawal underlies the concession of the state to assuage moral indignation while cycling the troops to a different part of empire </span></span>**

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Patnaik </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">19</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">90 </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">(Prabhat, Eminent and prolific economist who has worked creatively for 40 years at the intersection of Marxian and Keynesian theoretical traditions, professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning in the School of Social Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. He is currently Vice-Chairman of the Planning Board of the Indian state of Kerala., “Whatever happened to imperialism?,” Monthly Review Foundation, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n6_v42/ai_9101140/?tag=content;col1]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">It is unnecessary to go on. The point is not, as is often made out</span> ......<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond;"> and vigor it is displaying at present.</span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Be skeptical of their claims – the media and academy portrary the state as a benefactor to foreclose criticism and change** </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-weight: normal;">Paul </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Street </span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-weight: normal;">– once hit a 25-foot jump shot over NBA veteran Ricky Green - April 18, **20**</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">10</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-weight: normal;"> – </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[doctorate in modern U.S. History (with an emphasis on the history of industrial and class relations), . independent radical-democratic policy researcher, journalist, historian, and speaker, Street has taught various aspects of U.S. history at a large number of Chicago-area colleges and universities. Exposing and Resisting Empire and War Media in the Age of Obama- Online- [[http://www.pdamerica.org/articles/news/2010-04-18-06-20-45-news.php]]] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">The dominant corporate mass media’s coverage of U.S. foreign polic</span></span>y......
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;"> an angle of experience that cannot be taken seriously in dominant U.S, mass media.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">**It turns case – state violence has shifted to a multicultural white supremacy, where progressive black audiences applaud Obama’s calls for more cops and law-and-order. It is impossible to protest violence abroad while in alliance with the state’s vast architecture of war- Rodriguez ‘9** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;">(Dylan Rodríguez is Professor and Chair of the Department of Ethnic Studies at UC Riverside, where he began his teaching career in 2001. He received his Ph.D. and M.A. degrees in Ethnic Studies from the University of California, Berkeley, and earned two B.A. degrees and a Concentration degree from Cornell University. He was nationally recognized by Diverse magazine as one of its Emerging Scholars of 2006, and has been a Ford Foundation Predoctoral and Postdoctoral Fellow, “The Terms of Engagement: Warfare, White Locality, and Abolition,” Critical Sociology 36(1) 151-173, 2009, P. Sage</span>DN) 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">__Domestic warfare has__</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 5pt;"> thus </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">__become__</span> ..... 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">**__criminal law, and low-intensity genocide__**</span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none;">**<span style="border: medium none;">? </span>**</span></span>



==Neg Strats== 
We ran other stuff before that, but our 1NC and 2NRs at Scranton (excluding the round robin), Glenbrooks, and Ohio Valley were all the Militarism K


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]