**Be seeing you at UT kiddies**

You are Jokers

[[toc]]
=**Mission Statement**= 


"Dawn breaks over the stage of the 21st-century carnival. A stage already set, and a set already staged – the two-fold sign of a heteroglossic multiplicity that contextualizes the contemporary self. An age of imitative being and possessed role-play. The well-charted collapse of meaning, and its consequences in the loss of identity are misread under the sign of the meaningless, however. And what is missing here is the awareness that with the collapse of meaning comes also the collapse of its opposite. For with the collapse of the meaningless comes, inevitably, a mandate for play – but a mandate that is performative (as opposed to prescriptive). A state of self already in play, waiting simply to be noticed, theorized and played with. A 21st-century feast of fools, which negotiates its culture of boredom by carnivalizing the stage of its appearance. "
-The Post Modern Carnival

We also probably feel that contemporary society can be summed up by this quote:
**"'We won. We brought liberty to the population of Alemao. Now it's a matter of searches, imprisonments and detentions,**' **said military police chief Mario Sergio Duarte, who said all of Alemao's 30,000 homes would be scoured by security forces."**-
http://af.reuters.com/article/worldNews/idAFTRE6AR1JN20101128?pageNumber=1&virtualBrandChannel=0


=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>= 

==Protest Aff== 

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 16px; font-variant: small-caps; line-height: 24px;">**The day was February 15th, 2003: in the largest show of protest in human history millions protested in over 800 cities worldwide against the immanent US invasion of Iraq. However, when the weekend ended and the war machine plugged along with business as usual, the masses stood silent: they didn’t know what came next. And so they disbanded – the resistance disappeared, and a month later Operation Iraqi Freedom began. Everyone just went back to work, and acted like the rallies never happened. It appears rorty, walt, and shively have failed us - simply knowing about government policies has proven to be wholly ineffective to challenge the political. When the peace movement was at its strongest, protesting a war built on a bed of lies, it was also at its weakest. The people are missing – the protesting masses have become a silent majority. Instead of remaining trapped in this traditional framework, prefer a molecular politics of experimentation.**</span>
__This is Gilbert et. al in 2008__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(February 2008, Jeremy Gilbert, organizer and chair of the roundtable, “Deleuzian politics? A roundtable discussion.” Participants include Claire Colebrook, Eric Alliez, Peter Hallward, and Nicholas Thoburn, pgs. 165-175, [CL]) </span>

**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt;">Jeremy</span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt;">: Peter - Éric has raised the question, which is of course the urgent one, of </span>**//__<span style="color: windowtext;">how we can….</span>__//**__<span style="color: windowtext;">: you have to have some condition for analysing it. And isn’t that what micropolitics is about? </span>__


The Stop the War protest movement didn’t __just__ disappear, rather, it was reclaimed by the State; captured within the channels of acceptance. The demonstrations that started out as a mass expression of desire had become overcoded as tolerable opposition – at a very real level the Stop the War Campaign established a direct confluence of interests with State officials. How we engage the political is fundamentally a uniqueness question: Leftist movements as a whole in the last decade have resorted to a repressive politics of symbolic comfort in which protesters police themselves! This co-opted resistance not only makes any form of meaningful political engagement impossible, but actively seeks to deter other expressions of politics: the price has been the endless global wars and genocide under militarist expansion.
__This is Ward Churchill in 2007__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ward Churchill, American-Indian activist with AIM, former professor for University of Colorado at Boulder, “Pacifism as Pathology: reflections of the role of armed struggle in North America”, pgs. 48-62, [CL]) </span>
__The question central to the emergence and maintenance of nonviolence as the oppositional foundation of American activism__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> …-thinking people but ultimately acceptable when compared with the unthinkable alternative that any degree of real violence might be redirected against “mother country radicals.” </span>


This subordination of desire to fear in the face of police lines and threats from the outside world has transformed the State into a war machine. Liberalism asks us to surrender and be safe – war is permeating throughout all of society. Everything is a battlefield: war is being waged on culture, politics and the individual as much as in Iraq. In this way, war is an immanent thing, dispersed everywhere and nowhere at the same time, a ghost war on all of society. The war machine has placed us in a constant state of emergency by its own doing: fear has turned us all into cannibals, desiring our own domination and servitude. If we have to die, better to die in the open air than in an underground sarcophagus. You should challenge the politics of fear and endless war-mongering with a contraption of your own.
__This is Daniel Bell in 2007__
<span style="font-size: 7pt; line-height: 12.75pt;">(Daniel M., Associate Professor of Theological Ethics, Lutheran Theological Southern Seminary, Journal for Cultural and Religious Theory, JCRT 8.2 SPRING 2007 55,d http://www.jcrt.org/archives/08.2/) </span>

<span style="line-height: 12.75pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Like Hobbes and Foucault, </span><span class="underline">Deleuze holds that life is constituted by motion…</span>__<span style="color: windowtext;">we will have to look elsewhere. To this alternative we now</span>__ __<span style="color: windowtext;">turn.</span>__ </span>


Thus the plan:

The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Iraq.

We affirm a politics of continuation and flux - a constantly shifting and moving political hydra that can never be located or contained in one place, never killed in one fell swoop. We would like to change the way that we relate to war and the State – rather than grabbing our picket signs and walking in front of the capital chanting for change, we affirm experimentation with what it means to protest and be an activist. Activism should be a site for infinite combinations, a constant moving-towards revolution in which all of politics is an immanent process rather than a goal. We will always defend the consequences of removing troops, but it is important to note the political climate and ideologies that would have to exist for that to happen. We will never say the plan won’t happen, only describe the context in which its passage is pragmatic.


We think it’s time to try again: our solution is not just a political treatment, it’s an evolution. We begin with the way political formations occur in the status quo – movements formulate themselves around broader ideological and political reference points which act as transcendent signifiers constantly coding and directing potential. Even the most revolutionary aims can be tainted by underlying desires which inform the unconscious. Our affirmation takes place at the level of the preconscious, at the level of desires and instincts. Absent our investigation, we’ll inevitably lose control of the political. Rather than ceding ground to the State, we think that engaging the political is the best thing we can do. you shouldn’t get lost in talking about the revolution; rather, we think our affirmation has everything to do with the creation of mutations and escapes. We see ourselves as a blueprint for change, a normative roadmap: revolutions shouldn’t be left to the experts in the halls of Congress, this dooms us to captured forms of activism only that end in misery and death. Ceding the political makes a repeat of history inevitable: global war and depression on repeat. Vote aff to re-invent politics – a revolutionary philosophy.
__Patton in 2007__
<span style="color: windowtext; display: block; font-size: 7pt; text-align: left;">(Paul, “Political Normativity and Post-structuralism: the case of Gilles Deleuze”, Vortrag ins Institutscolloquium des Philosophischen Instituts der Freien </span>
<span style="color: windowtext; display: block; font-size: 7pt; text-align: left;">Universität, Berlin, am Donnerstag, den 15. November 2007, pgs. 5-12 [CL]) </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="color: windowtext;">The normativity of Deleuze and Guattari’s concepts provides a framework …</span>__<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt;"> biotechnologies gives reason to think that the opening-up of decision making procedures throughout society constitutes a further vector of ‘becoming-democratic.’ </span></span>









=Negative= 


===Speaking Evil=== 
**We disagree with the aff on the status of good and evil – they say good and evil are moral or polemic terms, descriptive of two qualitatively different acts. We say that such claim are naïve. Evil is a real part of our existence but not the will to exterminate. That desire is of the objective force of good, the will to sameness, the view of the revisionist, and the condemning and whitewashing of history. The attempt to eradicate the evils of the world is responsible for the most atrocious acts of history. The aff will say we’ll go extinct; such claims are only expressive of the psychosis and fantasy of the collective ‘good’. This is simply a nihilistic denial of the most intense form of reality.**
**Baudrillard and L’yvonnet in 04 [Jean, dead french dude, Interview with Francois L’yvonnet, Fragments, p. 105-111]**
Just <span style="color: #1c1c1d;">a</span>s freedom for<span style="color: #1c1c1d;">c</span>es its<span style="color: #1c1c1d;">e</span>lf upon us <span style="color: #1c1c1d;">a</span>s the e<span style="color: #1c1c1d;">a</span>si<span style="color: #1c1c1d;">es</span>t solution ....
<span style="color: #252526;">a</span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">nd nothin</span><span style="color: #252526;">g </span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">is for the best in th</span><span style="color: #252526;">e </span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">b</span><span style="color: #252526;">es</span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">t of a</span><span style="color: #000001;">l</span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">l worlds</span><span style="color: #252526;">. </span>

**Our alternative isn’t one action to advocate but a strategy or process whereby we can come to an understanding with evil. We’ll call this strategy “speaking evil” – not an act one and done. But a way of thinking and action, even in our attempts to overcome some forms of violence, that always respects that evil is an inevitable force in our world. Their death threats are just a mirror of the suicidal violence of the good. Within the debate round we can let a theater of cruelty be splayed across the screen of our bodies in order to fully play out and make a drama of the perverse. Only by positioning ourselves as our own agon can we begin to understand the convulsion of the world order. This is the intelligence of evil.**
Baudrillard in 05 **[Jean, dead french dude, The Intelligence of Evil, p. 159-164]**


**__This, then, is the way__** **__... terrorism is both the event-moment and the image feedback.__**



===DnG=== 

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The affirmatives embrace of rules, order, finite goals, and limits constrict the revolutionary potential of desire. Their prescription of solutions to a finite and understandable world prescribes a rational understanding of being that can be controlled and manipulated. This confinement of desire begins with a focus on the state, on collective forms of struggle, and the teleological final solution of the plan.</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Instead, disconnect yourself from the state, from collectives, from everything bigger than our agency. It is only when desire is confined and controlled, added to some larger pool, that we lose sight of our ability to form unique judgments and come to unique conclusions. Recognizing this individualism is necessary to challenge fascism</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Deleuze and Guattari,</span> 1987</span> [A Thousand Plateaus pg 158-159]</span>
<span class="underline">We have come to the gradual realization that...</span>sensations and perceptions and I have believed in them.”



<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our discussion must begin with Desire. It is worthless to talk of state politics without recognizing our responsibility in shaping our current political landscape. Fascism is not handed down from the USFG to the masses, rather fascism originates in the desires of the masses. Before change can take place at the macrolevel we must challenge the very fascist inside of us.</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 1980</span></span> (A Thousand Plateaus 214-215)

<span class="underline">It is not sufficient to define bureaucracy by a rigid <span style="font-size: 10pt;">....sustain and nourish and cherish with molecules both personal and collective.</span></span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Alternative is to affirm Rhizomatic Politics</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">We exist in an age of becoming – constant changes and upheavals are birthed to undermine the dominant figures of politics. However these movements are also constantly challenged and arrested by the state and its systems of ordering. Our affirmation makes these movements, these becomings, into self-sufficient actions that are constantly shifting and fluctuating to surpass the barriers erected by the state. </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">In order for our politics to be successful, we must break free of the confines instituted by the state – we must move beyond the stranglehold of family, borders, and ordered language. Our politics is one of disrupting the static and constantly invoking a multiplicity of change. Our alternative is a bottom-up movement which utilizes the power of individual desire to ultimately create change, which is distinct from the affirmatives use of the state as a system to create instantaneous change. It is not enough to be militant – instead we have to constantly work towards the inclusive, the radical, and the open. It is not about the conclusion, it is about the process.</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conley in 2006</span></span> (Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)
In their dialogues and collaborations, Gilles <span class="underline">Deleuze and Félix Guattari.....</span>in accord with any and every utopian scenario<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, all identity is undone</span></span>.

===Churchill Strat=== 
====the 1nc==== 
**<span style="font-size: 24pt;">First off is T – long version</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **1. Have to defend the resolution: substantially means without material qualifications, Blacks law 78**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **2. Vote negative:**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is no real limit to the resolution, only our interpretation provides predictability</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">only core negative ground is against the topic; key to fair division</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 26pt;">Next off is the Framework</span>**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **A. Interpretation – the affirmative has to defend slightly more things than they defended in the 1AC. Specifically, we defend the aff must defend a marginally more conservative interpretation of debate than the one they defend such that we have a ground and limits argument but our interpretation solves all of their offense.**</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **B. Violation – the affirmative is slightly different than that.**</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **C. Standards**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 1. Predictable Limits – under your interpretation we can PIC out of thousands of plan mechanisms and there are millions of potential government actions. There are only a handful of philosophical modes of questioning</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2. **Ground – I don’t have an answer to this aff, hence they should lose by virtue of my inability to beat it. Only bad arguments are fair to the negative because of our inability to debate against good arguments**</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 3. **Aff has a structural side bias by speaking first, last, third and having to respond to the negative block and win percentage which is virtually even. Means you should unconditionally vote negative to offset this bias.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **D. Voting issue for:**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Fairness, education, jurisdiction, rules of the game, rules of other games, rules of games not yet conceived of, jurisdiction, potato, competitive equity, ground, politics ground, pic ground, disad ground, good argument ground, bad argument ground, ethical argument ground, unethical argument ground, conditional ground, dispositional ground, predictable ground, unpredictable ground, physical ground, metaphysical ground, hyperphysical ground, pseudo physical ground, STOLEN GROUND, limits, over-limiting, under-limiting, throughout-limiting, just right limiting, exclusive limits, inclusive limits, the reasons above, being like an UTNIF aff, criticizing the global struggle against extremism, criticizing the long war, criticizing the war on terror, criticizing the global war on terror, letting the terrorists win, siding with the enemies of America like the poor and free thinking, criticizing Donald Rumsfeld, melting the wicked witch of the west and east, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">starting a grease fire (I saw them do it),</span> lack of consultation with the EU, Brazil, Japan, Congress and the AFLCIO, reading a plan (the Nazis had a plan), wearing pants (the Nazis wore pants).**</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **This argument must be evaluated like a wall, brick by brick**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Barndt**, 19**91**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Joseph , Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America, p. 155-56)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **__To study racism is to study walls__**.**__....we dare not allow it to continue.__**</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **And mandatory kappeler card**</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Kappeler 95** (Susanne, //The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior,// Pg. 10-11)</span>
Yet <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">our insight......values' <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">according: to the structures and the values of war and violence</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 14pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **And, the impact is nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Zalmay **Khalilzad**, RAND, The Washington Quarterly, Spring 19**95**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Under the third option, __......__ U.S. leadership would therefore be more conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system.</span>

**And this is a narrative of the death of a bull sperm whale**

**D’Amato and Chopra, ‘91**
(Anthony D'Amato and Sudhir K. Chopra, Law Professor and EPA Staff Attorney, The American Journal International Law, January, 1991, 85 A.J.I.L. 21, p. 23-4 (HARVOC0616)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This strong environmental claim requires at a minimum**__......The whale has taken 23 hours and 40 minutes to die.__**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Next off is what Murray wrote for us before the round because we pay him more money than god</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our argument is not a flow, nor an argument, but rather a tacit discourse</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If one examines the dialectic paradigm of discourse, one is faced with a choice: either reject textual theory or conclude that the raison d’etre of the poet is social comment. In a sense, Cameron<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.elsewhere.org/pomo/#fn4|[4]]]</span> holds that we have to choose between expressionism and the predialectic paradigm of expression. An abundance of discourses concerning the bridge between consciousness and sexual identity exist. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The characteristic theme of the works of Gaiman is the genre, and some would say the fatal flaw, of conceptual class. However, Marx’s critique of the dialectic paradigm of discourse implies that truth is capable of intent. Any number of materialisms concerning textual postcapitalist theory may be discovered. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But the subject is contextualised into a expressionism that includes reality as a paradox. Bataille uses the term ‘the dialectic paradigm of discourse’ to denote not theory as such, but neotheory. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus, Derrida promotes the use of postpatriarchialist textual theory to deconstruct hierarchy. The subject is interpolated into a expressionism that includes consciousness as a whole. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But the premise of the dialectic paradigm of discourse suggests that sexual identity has intrinsic meaning. Several discourses concerning a neostructural reality exist. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In a sense, if expressionism holds, the works of Gaiman are postmodern. Marx uses the term ‘patriarchialist nihilism’ to denote not deconstruction, but postdeconstruction. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impact is things are genocidal, that is explained above</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 36pt;">Next off is the K</span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">No one can tell they are wearing their business suite ironically, vote neg</span></span>**
**The Onion 2005**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span></span>//<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Why Can't Anyone Tell I'm Wearing This Business Suit Ironically?) </span>//

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">Is it my fault none of you stupid......But who am I kidding? Living on the cutting edge of irony is in my blood, man! I couldn't go straight if I tried!</span>
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">no solvency - our Nation Shudders At Large Blocks Of Uninterrupted Text – turns case</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Onion 2010</span></span>** (March 9, Nation Shudders At Large Block Of Uninterrupted Text, http://www.theonion.com/articles/nation-shudders-at-large-block-of-uninterrupted-te,16932/)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">WASHINGTON......Whatever it is, I'm pretty sure it doesn't even have a point." </span>
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Alternative is <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">FREE TASTY ICECREAM</span> - Also Ebola...</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Onion 2010</span></span>** (June 15, CDC Officials Announce Free Ice Cream For Everyone, Delicious Tasty Ice Cream, And Also There Is An Ebola Outbreak, http://www.theonion.com/articles/cdc-officials-announce-free-ice-cream-for-everyone,17611/)
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ATLANTA—In a sudden, unscheduled ......agents, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">close to 96 percent of the population could be wiped out, "so, great news—more tasty ice cream for the rest of us!"</span></span>

=====The Block===== 
T**he aff is nothing more than an ironic business suit. They believe that their discourse is subversive, but don't understand why nothing ever changes. The 1nc was a performance to not strike a critical stance but rather be an object of debate. Our action of being the object seduces the 1ac advocacy shedding the light on the efficacy and futility of their liberatory strategy.**
**The affirmative is precisely the strategy of the subject. The subject is reassuring. But the affirmative reclaims it, frees the subject from such a circumscribed notion of freedom. It all sounds great, right? Nope – the strategy of the subject is precisely what is dead and dying, outdated and irrelevant. We must move from a philosophy of the subject and its desires to a philosophy of the object and its seduction – the affirmative is the last gasp of the subject that simultaneously rehabilitates it and dooms it.**
**Jean <span class="cite">Baudrillard</span>,** Professor of Philosophy of Culture and Media Criticism at the European Graduate School, **<span class="cite">1990</span>**, Fatal Strategies, p. 111-13
“<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only the subject desires; only the object seduces</span></span>.<span style="font-size: 9pt;">......al­ienation has collapsed; the solidity of desire has become myth.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**The 1ac is a eulogy. A discourse promoting civic life and producing social death. Debate is nothing more than an extension of the University. Our self-contained discourse only allows power to turn us into to ghosts, buried deep into the catacombs of empty school buildings. This ensures that our resistance is buried and power is masked. Debate is a mausoleum of theories of power, critique, and resistance - ideas that were once alive but now filtered, managed, and expected by the machinations of Academia.** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">**Occupied UC Berkeley 2k9** [__http://anticapitalprojects.wordpress.com/2009/11/19/the-necrosocial/__, the necrosocial: civic life, social death, and the UC, nov. 19,]</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">__Yes, very much <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">a cemetery. </span>____.....Who doesn’t participate in this graveyard?__</span>


**Regulated exchange of otherness and difference, mandates terror and annihilation of all radical and absolute otherness. Only by rejecting all chance for encounter can the other remain other, and viral racism be combated.**
Baudrillard in 93 **[Jean, dead french dude, The Transparency of Evil, pg. 127-130]**

what then does it mean to say that women are the other for men...the proper use of difference

**Our alternative is like a crystal, instead of being in opposition to their analysis we absorb it in order to mirror it and refract its energy. The system will not be destroyed by a release or drift. Through an impossible counter-gift of our death to the system and the pataphysical instance that the system will collapse under its own weight can we achieve solvency.**
**Baudrillard in 84** [Jean, dead french dude, Selected Writings, Symbolic Exchange and Death]

**__Such is the fatality of every system__** ..... one by one, from discourse.



**Our strategy is one of a radical thought. Debate is banal and focuses on the cause of events rather than events themselves. Our aim is not to produce any kind of resistance or pragmatic action but rather provide a radical way to re-hypothesize the ideas we discuss and the way in which we situate our thought. Resisting the virality of the system in terms of normal historical struggles is impossible; rather the way to combat the system is with its own weapons. View our critique as a homeopathic viral dose of radical thought into the system; and act of thought that seeks to speed up the order of the world and bring the system nearer its own end. A thought that accepts its own fatality. All forms of critical and objective analysis fail and are no longer applicable to today’s state of affairs, we must embrace the hypothesis of integral reality in order to advance thought from an analytical form to a radical one. Traditional forms of thought have no way of combating a totalized and virtual world, meaning that any attempt to radicalize our thinking will be preferable to none. And we don’t need to prove any kind of out of round solvency; our speech act is key to radically changing how we think the world.**
Baudrillard and L’yvonnet in 04 **[Jean, dead french dude, Interview with Francois L’yvonnet, Fragments, p.71-80]**

Th<span style="color: #414141;">e</span>r<span style="color: #414141;">e </span>can be no <span style="color: #121113;">q</span><span style="color: #414141;">u</span>est<span style="color: #121113;">io</span>n<span style="color: #414141;">, </span>t<span style="color: #121113;">h</span><span style="color: #414141;">e</span><span style="color: #121113;">n</span><span style="color: #414141;">, </span>of r<span style="color: #414141;">e</span>s<span style="color: #121113;">i</span>s<span style="color: #121113;">t</span>in<span style="color: #414141;">g v</span>ira<span style="color: #121113;">lit</span>y....**__<span style="color: #0f0f10;">Th</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">i</span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">s i</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">s </span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">mor</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">e </span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">or l</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">ess </span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">wh</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">a</span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">t I ha</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">ve ca</span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">ll</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">e</span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">d </span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">poe</span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">ti</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">c </span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">tr</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">a</span><span style="color: #0f0f10;">nsferenc</span><span style="color: #2d2c2d;">e.</span>__**