[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**1AC Read at Baskin-Ridge:**</span>=== 

__Contention One: Inherency__

The United States remains __committed__ to maintaining an __expanded military presence__ on Okinawa—plans for the Futenma Replacement Facility in Nago are being __greenlighted__ by Japan.
Chalmers <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Johnson</span></span>, Professor Emeritus of the University of California—San Diego, former consultant for the CIA from 1967–1973, former head of the Center for Chinese Studies at the University of California—Berkeley for years, and President and Co-founder of the Japan Policy Research Institute, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2010</span></span> (“Another battle of Okinawa,” //Los Angeles Times//, May 6th, Available Online at http://articles.latimes.com/2010/may/06/opinion/la-oe-johnson-20100506)


__Contention Two: Security__

The U.S.-Japan Alliance is being __prioritized__ over the interests of Okinawa in the status quo—the continued U.S. military presence in Okinawa functions as __the crucial faultline__ in the struggle to __define ‘security’__ in Japan.
Deborah <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 85-86)




__Second__—the dominant, state-centered vision of ‘security’ that underwrites the American military presence has __devastating consequences__ for the Okinawan people—the status quo is __waging war__ on Okinawa. 
Miyume <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Tanji</span></span>, Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of //Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa// and several other publications, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2007</span></span> (“Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, Available Online at http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf, p. 3-6)




__Third__—this is just __the latest instance of colonial violence__ perpetrated against Okinawa—__challenging__ the realist conception of ‘security’ that justifies continued U.S. military presence is necessary to __prevent further subjugation__.
Deborah <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 96-101)


We will isolate two impacts—__Subpoint A is Militarism__:

__First__—dominant conceptions of ‘security’ (like those used to justify a continued U.S. military presence in Okinawa) ensure __global military violence__ that __kills millions__.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">Gavan </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">McCormack</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">, Emeritus Professor and Visiting Fellow in the Division of Pacific and Asian History at the Australian National University, </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2010</span> </span>(“The Travails of a Client State: An Okinawan Angle on the 50th Anniversary of the US-Japan Security Treaty,” //Japan Focus//, March 12th, Available Online at http://www.ips-dc.org/articles/the_travails_of_a_client_state)




__Second__—this poses an __existential risk__—militarism __jeopardizes human survival__.
Irina <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Pollard</span></span>, Ph.D. in the Department of Biological Sciences at Macquarie University, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2003</span></span> (“Choose Between Cooperation and Annihilation: A Mental Mapping Project Towards a more Generously Directed Altruism,” //Eubios Journal of Asian and International Bioethics//, Volume 13, Available Online at http://www2.unescobkk.org/eubios/EJ132/ej132f.htm)

__Subpoint B: Colonialism__

__First__—colonialism is a form of __ongoing structural violence__—it outweighs war and their __one-shot disad__.
Russel Lawrence <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Barsh</span></span>, Professor of Native American Studies at the University of Lethbridge and United Nations Representative of the Mikmaq Grand Council and Four Directions Council, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">1993</span></span> (“The Challenge Of Indigenous Self-Determination,” //University of Michigan Journal of Law Reform// (26 U. Mich. J.L. Reform 277), Winter, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis)

__Second__—cultural survival is a __D-Rule__—it’s key to prevent __extinction__.
Patrick J. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Deneen</span></span>, Associate Professor of Government and Markos and Eleni Tsakopoulos-Kounalakis Chair in Hellenic Studies at Georgetown University, Director of the Tocqueville Forum on the Roots of American Democracy, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2008</span></span> (“Technology, Culture, and Virtue," //The New Atlantis//, Number 21, Summer, Available Online at http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/technology-culture-and-virtue)




__Contention Three: Environmental Destruction__

The planned Futenma Replacement Facility will __decimate the natural environment__—U.S. military presence will be the __death knell__ of one of the world’s __most sacred ecosystems__.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The Center for Biological Diversity</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">—a national, nonprofit conservation organization with more than 240,000 members and online activists dedicated to the protection of endangered species and wild places, </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">et al.</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">, co-signed by representatives of conservation, animal protection, and peace and justice groups representing more than 10 million Americans, </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2009</span> </span>(“RE: Proposed U.S. Military Air Base Expansion Near Henoko, Okinawa,” Letter To The Obama Administration, December 3rd, Available Online at http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/species/mammals/Okinawa_dugong/pdfs/dugongletter.pdf)





__Second__—this risks __extinction__—there’s an __invisible threshold__.
David N. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Diner</span></span>, Major in the Judge Advocate General's Corps of the United States Army, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">1994</span></span> (“The Army And The Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?,” //Military Law Review// (143 Mil. L. Rev. 161), Winter, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis)





__Third__—this is particularly true __in this instance__—healthy ocean ecosystems are __key to human survival__.
Robin Kundis <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Craig</span></span>, Associate Professor of Law at the Indiana University School of Law, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2003</span></span> (“Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii,” //McGeorge Law Review// (34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155), Winter, Available Online via Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)



__Fourth__—tolerating the destruction of this ecosystem __saps us of our humanity__—it makes __nuclear war__ and __human extinction__ inevitable.
Murray <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bookchin</span></span>, co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">1987</span></span> ("An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity," //The Modern Crisis//, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108)


[[#_Toc265859871]]
__Thus the plan:__

The United States federal government should phase-out to the point of elimination its military presence in the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.

We’ll clarify.


__Contention Four: Solvency__

The plan is a __key site of contestation__ against dominant ‘security’ logics—vote affirmative to __take seriously__ the suffering of the Okinawan people.
Miyume <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Tanji</span></span>, Research Fellow with the Centre for Advanced Studies in Australia, Asia and the Pacific at Curtin University of Technology (Australia), holds a Ph.D. in Politics from Murdoch University and is the author of //Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa// and several other publications, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2007</span></span> (“Futenma Air Base As A Hostage Of Us-Japan Alliance: Power, Interests And Identity Politics Surrounding Military Bases In Okinawa,” Asia Research Centre Working Paper No. 147, November, Available Online at http://wwwarc.murdoch.edu.au/wp/wp147.pdf, p. 11-12)





__Second__—the plan is crucial to __re-imagine ‘security’__—this is key to __stable and meaningful peace__.
Deborah <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Mantle</span></span>, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2006</span></span> (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” //Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies//, Volume 5, Available Online at http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf, p. 102-103)




__Finally__—continued U.S. military presence on Okinawa has __no strategic value__—the case outweighs their security DA.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Network For Okinawa</span></span>, a project of the Institute For Policy Studies, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2010</span></span> (“Network for Okinawa’s Statement on Current Situation with U.S. Base Relocation,” June 14th, Available Online at http://closethebase.org/2010/06/14/network-for-okinawas-statement-on-current-futenma-situation/)


===1AC Read at Big Lex:=== 

**The day was February 15th, 2003: in the largest show of protest in human history millions protested in over 800 cities worldwide against the immanent US invasion of Iraq. However, when the weekend ended and the war machine plugged along with business as usual, the masses stood silent: they didn’t know what came next. And so they disbanded – the resistance disappeared, and a month later Operation Iraqi Freedom began. Everyone just went back to work, and acted like the rallies never happened. Itappears Rorty, Walt, and Shively have failed us - simply knowing about government policies has proven to be wholly ineffective to challenge the political. When the peace movement was at its strongest, protesting a war built on a bed of lies, it was also at its weakest. The people are missing – the protesting masses have become a silent majority. Instead of remaining trapped in this traditional framework, prefer a molecular politics of experimentation.**
**This is Gilbert et. al in 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(February 2008, Jeremy Gilbert, organizer and chair of the roundtable, “Deleuzian politics? A roundtable discussion.” Participants include Claire Colebrook, Eric Alliez, Peter Hallward, and Nicholas Thoburn, pgs. 165-175, [CL]) </span>

**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt;">Jeremy</span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt;">: Peter - Éric has raised the question,...</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: windowtext; font-variant: normal !important; font-weight: normal;">micropolitics is about?</span>__



**The Stop the War protest movement didn’t just disappear, rather, it was reclaimed by the State; captured within the channels of acceptance. The demonstrations that started out as a mass expression of desire had become overcoded as tolerable opposition – at a very real level the Stop the War Campaign established a direct confluence of interests with State officials. How we engage the political is fundamentally a uniqueness question: Leftist movements as a whole in the last decade have resorted to a repressive politics of symbolic comfort in which protesters police themselves! This co-opted resistance not only makes any form of meaningful political engagement impossible, but actively seeks to deter other expressions of politics: the price has been the endless global wars and genocide under militarist expansion.**
**This is Ward Churchill in 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ward Churchill, American-Indian activist with AIM, former professor for University of Colorado at Boulder, “Pacifism as Pathology: reflections of the role of armed struggle in North America”, pgs. 48-62, [CL]) </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The question central ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;">mother country radicals.”</span>




**This subordination of desire to fear in the face of police lines and threats from the outside world has transformed the State into a war machine. Liberalism asks us to surrender and be safe – war is permeating throughout all of society. Everything is a battlefield: war is being waged on culture, politics and the individual as much as in Iraq. In this way, war is an immanent thing, dispersed everywhere and nowhere at the same time, a ghost war on all of society. The war machine has placed us in a constant state of emergency by its own doing: fear has turned us all into cannibals, desiring our own domination and servitude. Don’t live life in a bomb shelter – death isn’t the worst that can happen. You should challenge the politics of fear and endless war-mongering with a contraption of your own.**
**This is Daniel Bell in 2007**
<span style="font-size: 7pt; line-height: 12.75pt;">(Daniel M., Associate Professor of Theological Ethics, Lutheran Theological Southern Seminary, Journal for Cultural and Religious Theory, JCRT 8.2 SPRING 2007 55,d http://www.jcrt.org/archives/08.2/) </span>

<span style="line-height: 12.75pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Like Hobbes and Foucault...</span>__<span style="color: windowtext;"> alternative we nowturn.</span>__ </span>






**Thus the plan:**

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Iraq.**



**We think it’s time to try again: our solution is not just a political treatment, it’s an evolution. We begin with the way political formations occur in the status quo – movements formulate themselves around broader ideological and political reference points which act as transcendent signifiers constantly coding and directing potential. Even the most revolutionary aims can be tainted by underlying desires which inform the unconscious. Our affirmation takes place at the level of the preconscious, at the level of desires and instincts. Absent our investigation, we’ll inevitably lose control of the political. Rather than ceding ground to the State, we think that engaging the political is the best thing we can do. you shouldn’t get lost in talking about the revolution; rather, we think our affirmation has everything to do with the creation of mutations and escapes. We see ourselves as a blueprint for change, a normative roadmap: revolutions shouldn’t be left to the experts in the halls of Congress, this dooms us to captured forms of activism only that end in misery and death. Ceding the political makes a repeat of history inevitable: global war and depression on repeat. Vote aff to re-invent politics – a revolutionary philosophy.**
**Patton in 2007**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: windowtext; display: block; font-size: 7pt; text-align: left;">(Paul, “Political Normativity and Post-structuralism: the case of Gilles Deleuze”, Vortrag ins Institutscolloquium des Philosophischen Instituts der Freien </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: windowtext; display: block; font-size: 7pt; text-align: left;">Universität, Berlin, am Donnerstag, den 15. November 2007, pgs. 5-12 [CL]) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: windowtext;">The normativity of ....</span>__<span style="font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;"> of ‘becoming-democratic.’</span></span></span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]