[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan

__Contention 1: Inherency__**

**The US won’t withdraw from Afghanistan – the upcoming deadlines will only increase troops**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klein 6/24</span></span> (Joe Klein, staff writer for Time, “Can Obama and Petraeus Work Together?”,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.time.com/time/printout/0,8816,1999251,00.html]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the policy featured…until July 2011."</span>

**Counterinsurgency will inevitably fail – a counterterrorism strategy is more effective**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rick "Ozzie", Director, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Program and Senior Fellow, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Oct 1, “The Other Side of the COIN”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin]]</span>)

A1: Probably not. </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Counterinsurgency</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> approach would entail. </span>

**Now is the key time – the small footprint approach is uniquely sustainable and delay risks precipitous withdrawal**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

It follows that </span><span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">for that purpose. </span>

__**Contention 2: Afghan Stability**__

**COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US props up the ineffective central government at the cost of stability**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble 10</span></span> (Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The appropriate question…</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">in the world</span>.</span>

**More specifically, COIN is inherently hostile to local authority structures**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Benjamin H. Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security studies, September 3, “Making Enemies in Afghanistan”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/03/making-enemies-in-afghanistan/]]</span> | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Yaroslav </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Trofimov’s article</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">…possibility worth considering. </span>

**And, US presence creates deepening spirals of instability and violence – a minimalist approach is key**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)

Finally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">within</span> the …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the Taliban. </span>

**Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suhrke 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Astri, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cmi.no/file/?997]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The insurgency has…developments were going. </span>

**This provincial security regime is comparatively the best way to stabilize Afghanistan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Max, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Obama has …foreseeable exit strategy. </span>

**Inevitable destabilization that results leads to violent fragmentation of Afghanistan, resulting in multiple nuclear wars**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 7</span></span> (Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span>)

Although disliked and…Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!

**Afghan instability spills over to Central Asia – causes conflict that draws in Russia**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goble 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, Georgian Daily, “Afghan Conflict Spreading into Central Asia, Russian Analyst Says”, 1-14, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16458&Itemid=65]]</span>) </span>

<span class="underline0">Because NATO has…**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">in</span>** </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">as well. </span>

**War in Central Asia is the most probable scenario for extinction**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Blank 2K</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen J. Blank, Expert on the Soviet Bloc for the Strategic Studies Institute, 2000, “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, World Affairs. 9-22)) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">many structural </span>… settling the situation</span><span class="UnreadTextChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

**No risk of Taliban takeover – withdrawal would kill their cohesion and local support**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pillar 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul R. Pillar, 28-year veteran of the Central Intelligence Agency, a visiting professor at Georgetown University for security studies and a member of the Center for Peace and Security Studies, 10/14/09, “Counterterrorism and Stability in Afghanistan”,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://cpass.georgetown.edu/documents/AfghanHASCPillarOct09_1.doc]]</span> | Suo) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">This observation sheds light on the nature of the Afghan Taliban</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and on the question of what danger they do or do not pose to broader U.S. interests. </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">The Taliban are a loosely organized resistance</span> concerned above all with society, politics, and power inside Afghanistan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Despite their ideological affinity to, and proven cooperation with, al-Qa’ida, they are not driven by the transnational objectives associated with bin Ladin and Zawahiri. </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">Their</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> interest in, and </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">antagonism toward, the U</span>nited <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">S</span>tates <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">is</span> almost <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">entirely a function of what the U</span>nited <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">S</span>tates <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">does in</span>side <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">Afghanistan</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to thwart their aims there. The Taliban’s values and practices, as demonstrated in their previous rule over most of Afghanistan, clearly are repugnant to our own values. But there is </span><span class="UnderlineChar">nothing in their origins or objectives to suggest that they will become less insular and inward looking in the future than they are now. The Taliban are the object of wide dislike among Afghans, based on the earlier experience of their harsh rule. Their lack of cohesiveness is another of their handicaps</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">The cause most likely to unite them is resistance to foreign occupation of Afghanistan</span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">. They will tend to be stronger to the extent that our military presence there is seen as</span> an <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">occupation</span>.</span>

**Independently, COIN destabilizes Pakistan – small footprint key to prevent collapse**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (George Washington, former adjunct professor and head writer of the Washington blog, Cites Andrew J. Bacevich, professor of international relations at Boston University, December 4, 2009, “A Cheaper and More Effective Military Strategy for Afghanistan”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2009/12/better-military-strategy-for.html]]</span> | Suo)

Meanwhile, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the chief…</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">the entire world</span>.</span>

**Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pitt 9 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]</span>) </span>

But a suicide…should we all.

__**Contention 3: al-Qaeda**__

**al Qaeda is actively seeking nuclear weapons for use**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Evans 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece]]</span>)

Terrorists including </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">al-Qaeda </span>…bombs are available."</span>

**That is the single greatest threat to security – material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hall 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm]]</span>)

Obama said "</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">the … attack" by 2013.</span> </span>

**Extinction**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science/journal/00163287|Futures]]</span>, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science?_ob=PublicationURL&_tockey=%23TOC%235805%232009%23999589989%231515128%23FLA%23&_cdi=5805&_pubType=J&view=c&_auth=y&_acct=C000014438&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=209690&md5=7eaadd08919055b45011bba80bf06023|Volume 41, Issue 10]]</span>, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)

In a remarkable …</span><span class="UnderlineChar">of strategic weapons.</span>

**Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arkedis 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven]]</span>)

As deliberations about…</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">it can access.</span></span>

**al-Qaeda represents a uniquely existential threat – religious ideology short-circuits deterrence**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gorka 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sebastian L. v. Gorka, Faculty of the Irregular Warfare Department of the National Defense University, Washington DC, and member of the US Atlantic Council’s Strategic Advisers’ Group, 5/17/10, “Al-Qaeda and Afghanistan in Strategic Context: Counterinsurgency versus Counterterrorism (WP)”,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/portal/rielcano_eng/Content?WCM_GLOBAL_CONTEXT=/elcano/elcano_in/zonas_in/dt15-2010]]</span> | Suo)
Almost immediately </span><span class="UnderlineChar">… <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">will not be achievable</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**US presence strengthens al Qaeda – it increases recruiting**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clemons et al, 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce Ackerman, Yale University, Gordon Adams, American University and Stimson Center, Amjad Atallah, New America Foundation, James Bamford, Author/Documentary Producer, Darcy Burner, Progressive Caucus Action Fund, James Clad, National Defense University, Steve Clemons, New America Foundation and The Washington Note, Juan Cole, University of Michigan and Informed Comment, Patrick Cronin, Center for a New American Security, Arnaud de Borchgrave, Center for Strategic & International Studies, Graciana del Castillo, Columbia University, Michael C. Desch, University of Notre Dame, Robert H. Donaldson, University of Tulsa, Bernard I. Finel, National War College, James K. Galbraith, University of Texas-Austin, James Goldgeier, George Washington University, William C. Goodfellow, Center for International Policy, Selig S. Harrison, Center for International Policy, Leo Hindery, Jr., Chair, US Economy/Smart Globalization Initiative at the New America Foundation, Matthew P. Hoh, Former U.S. Marine Officer and former Department of State official, Michael Intriligator, University of California, Los Angeles and The Milken Institute, Robert Jervis, Columbia University, Sean Kay, Ohio Wesleyan University, Parag Khanna, New America Foundation and former Senior Geopolitical Officer, US Special Operations Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, W. Patrick Lang, Former Defense Intelligence Officer, South Asia and Publisher, Sic Semper Tyrannis, Flynt Leverett, New America Foundation and Race for Iran, Hillary Mann Leverett, Yale University and Race for Iran, Anatol Lieven, King’s College London and New America Foundation, Justin Logan, Cato Institute, John Mueller, Ohio State University, Robert A. Pape, University of Chicago, Paul R. Pillar, Georgetown University, Barry Posen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Jason Rosenbaum, Writer, Priya Satia, Stanford University, Stephen Schlesinger, Century Foundation, Sherle R. Schwenninger, New America Foundation, Michael Shank, Office of US Congressman Michael Honda and Afghanistan Taskforce Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus, J.P. Singh, Georgetown University, Richard Vague, The Governor’s Woods Foundation, American Strategy Program Leadership Council, and New America Foundation, Martin Walker, Woodrow Wilson Center, Stephen M. Walt, Harvard University, Col Lawrence B. Wilkerson (USA, ret), College of William & Mary, Former Chief of Staff, US Department of State, Jeffrey Winters, Northwestern University, Leighton Woodhouse, Labor Organizer, Mosharraf Zaidi, International Development Expert and Columnist, 8/19/10, “A NEW WAY FORWARD: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/?page_id=27]]</span>)

In short, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">a …by similar motivations. </span>

**A large footprint makes Pakistani cooperation impossible – that’s necessary to solve terror**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">Obama</span> administration's …be against foreigners.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 </span>

**The plan is sufficient to keep the Taliban down and prevent al Qaeda safe havens in Afghanistan**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cortright 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917]]</span>) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">This analysis suggests …with greater justice.</span>

**Withdrawal is a prerequisite to effective counterterrorism – presence creates a legitimacy gap and reduces leverage**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boyle 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael J, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 | Suo) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Another set of … essential counterterrorism goals.</span>

__**Contention 3: Hegemony**__

**We’ll isolate two internal links,**
**First, War Fatigue – COIN perpetuates domestic backlash which undermines power projection and causes isolationism**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kretkowski 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication. Highly irregular reporting via blog on developments in soft power, public diplomacy and smart power, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]]</span> | Suo)

Over the winter …(China, a reinvigorated Russia). </span>

**Second, Overstretch, COIN devastates troop morale and readiness – collapsing hegemony**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pyne 9</span></span> **-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/]]</span>) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">In</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Iraq and </span><span class="UnderlineChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> this past year. </span>

**Heg solves every impact – the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thayer 6</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>**<span style="color: black;">professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A grand strategy…prosperity it provides. </span>

**And, heg is sustainable – but continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf]]</span> | Suo)
Former national security …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">than</span> would <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">withdrawal</span>. </span>

**CT is better than COIN at intelligence gathering**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rick “Ozzie” Nelson is a senior fellow in the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. He is a former Navy helicopter pilot with over twenty years operational and intelligence experience, including assignments at the National Security Council and the National Counterterrorism Center. He recently served in Afghanistan. Oct 15, 2009, “Intelligence Gathering Is Compatible with Counterterrorism”,<span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://csis.org/publication/intelligence-gathering-compatible-counterterrorism]]</span> | Suo)

Q1: </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Proponents of counterinsurgency</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …Qaeda in Iraq. </span>

**Certainty of withdrawal is key – it shores up international credibility and boosts political support**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schlesinger 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, Adjunct Fellow at the Century Foundation in New York City, the former Director of the World Policy Institute at the New School University, March 10, 2010, “The Only Way Out Of Afghanistan Is With A Withdrawal Deadline”, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://takingnote.tcf.org/2010/03/the-only-way-out-of-afghanistan-is-a-withdrawal-deadline.html]]</span>) </span>

<span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%;">The deadline is</span> …</span><span class="UnderlineChar">be the last. </span>
=Negative= 
Topicality: Should
Topicality: Substantially
XO
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: Competition</span>__
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. Definitional: “The” means all parts – they’re definitionally bound to defending all branches</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Merriam-Webster's</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> No Date</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Online Collegiate Dictionary, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary]]</span> </span>
__<span style="background: yellow;">used</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as a …</span>__<span style="background: yellow;"> as a whole</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">B. Resolutional – Resolved means legislative action</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LHR 5</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://house.louisiana.gov/house-glossary.htm]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="background: yellow;">Resolution A legislative </span>____…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to governor's veto. ( Const. Art. III, §17(B) and House  Rules 8.11 , 13.1 , 6.8 , and 7.4)</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2: Solvency </span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">XOs have the force of law and can effectively implement policy</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Kenneth, Professor of Political Science @ University of Wisconsin – Madison, //With the Stroke of a Pen]//
These chronicles of … many cases disturbing.”8 </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unilateral executive action expands presidential power and sets a precedent – each order is key. The counterplan fiats uniqueness to the link</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer 1</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kenneth R., Professor of Political Science @ U of Wisconsin-Madison, With the Stroke of a Pen: Executive Orders and Presidential Power, p. 56)
Much of the time, …</span>**__<span style="background: yellow;"> of the Constitution</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Increased presidential powers are key to solve warming</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">PCAP 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Presidential Climate Action Project, Nonpartisan Project at the University of Colorado Denver, “Climate Action Brief: The Use of Presidential Power”, 2008 is the last date cited, [[http://www.climateactionproject.com/docs/briefs/Climate_Brief_Presidential_Power.pdf]])</span>
__This legacy could …**<span style="background: yellow;">for climate action</span>**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tickell 8</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Environmental Researcher (Oliver, 8/11, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">We need to …</span>**__similar <span style="background: yellow;">hothouse Earth</span>__**<span style="background: yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]