[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
AC #1
<span style="line-height: 25pt;">Ought = expressing m obligation (Oxford English Dictionary- 2nd Edition)
V: M
Prefer this interp
1. most common def </span>
2. not contingent on geopolitical status
3. res is question of what policies should b which requires m accountabil.

So.. consider m objectively

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. Indivs as ends</span>

Kant- “A Categorical imperative…as a means.” [Groundwork. Page 29. Immanuel Kant. Chapter 2 1785]

<span style="tab-stops: 47.0pt;">Kavka 1- “At first, this…act containing it.” [Kavka, Gregory S. [UCLA Philosophy] “Some Paradoxes of Deterrence.” The Journal of Philosoph. Vol 75. No 6. (Jun., 1978) pp. 285-302. Accessed: 19 Aug 2010. ]</span>
<span style="line-height: 25pt;">**VC: Preventing Intentional Harm to Innocents** </span>
<span style="line-height: 25pt; margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**1-** **nuclear weapons possession intends to harm innocents** </span>
<span style="line-height: 25pt; margin-left: 0.25in;">**Kavka 2- “It is essential…those circumstances arise.” [Same cite]**
**Detterence** **<span style="font-family: Wingdings;">à</span>** **double bind**
**Kavka 3- “Consider the balance…the human race.” [**Kacka. ‘Some Paradoxes of Deterrence’ //Journal of Philosophy,// June 1978), ] </span>
<span style="line-height: 25pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">- Time frame weighing (new weapons)</span>
**Churchill-** “The very character…the human species.” [<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 10pt;">Churchill, Robert P.. Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament.1983.] </span>

<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;">Dworkin- “In case 1…under certain conditions.” [</span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 10pt;">Dworkin, Gerald. “Nuclear Intentions.” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence . 1985.]</span>
<span style="line-height: 25pt; margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2- </span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Regardless of intention, accidents harm innocents </span>**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Donaldson- “The critical moral…culpable or insane.” [</span>**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 10pt;">Donaldson, Thomas. Thomas Donaldson 1985 [professor of legal studies and business ethics at Wharton school] “Nuclear Deterrence and self defense” [ Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 537-548] </span>

<span style="line-height: 25pt;">**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 10pt;">Kreiger- “The risk of… a nuclear accident.” [</span>**<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 10pt;">Ten Reasons to Abolish Nuclear Weapons,” David Kreiger. Nuclear Age Peace Foundation. 2003. Web. Founder of Nuclear Age Peace Foundation. ] </span></span>

AC # 2

Kamm- “if five die…sense, impersonally worse”

2. Util is a bad evaluative mech.
Kamm 2- “If equal treatment… coin si tossed”

3. Net benefits are irrelevant
Kamm 3- “if we want to show… an equal chance

VC- respec. Human life
Mearscheimer- “the main goal…those other goals”

P1. States are moral
Wollstein- “what determines…cannot morally do”

a. states act in a moral way
Reimer: “any civilization…to its descendants”

b. nukes are capable of harming future generations
CDC: “large radiation doses…other birth defects”

P2. Intentons have equal harms to respec. Act.

KAvka- “a potential wrongdoer…intention is evil”

P3. States ought not possess nukes b/c of the intentions principle

Churchill- “even if nuclear deterrence… for human survival”

1”Equal Treatment and Equal Chances”, Vol. 14 2 (Spring 1985) Philosophy and Public Affairs, pp. 177-194
2
”The Nature and Morality of Government”, February 2, 2010; Mises Daily [Excerpted from Chapter 2 of society without coercion, 1969]

3
THE JOURNAL OF PHILOSOPHY VOLUME LXXV, NO. 6, JUNE I978 “Some paradoxes of deterrence”
4Churchill, Robert. Robert P. Churchill, “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue”, Vol. 469, pp. 46-57. 2010. JSTOR. CL.. 2010.
5Riemer, Neal. “Let Justice Roll: Prophetic Challenges in Religion, Politics, and Society.”. 1996.

AC # 3:
Ought – moral obligation
Value - Morality
1.Law is a reflection of societal morality

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">Batnitzky, Leora. “A Seamless Web? John Finnis and Joseph Raz on Practical Reason and the Obligation to Obey the Law” Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 15, No. 2. (Summer, 1995), pp. 173. </span>

“Comprehensive goals are dependent…deviate from the rule.”

2. International law is the only objective standard among states.

MacBride, Sean. //London Nuclear Warfare Tribunal//. 1989.

“International law has its roots in…practiced by military courts.”
Standard – Consistency with international law

Contention 1: Possession of nuclear weapons violates international law.

MacBride, Sean. //London Nuclear Warfare Tribunal//. 1989.
“The Nuremberg charter articles only mention…must be against international law.”

MacBride, Sean. //London Nuclear Warfare Tribunal//. 1989.

“All legal systems endeavor…no other rational interpretation.”

Weeramantry. “The dissenting opinion of justice weeramantry.” //The <span class="title">International Court of Justice on the Legality of Nuclear Weapons. </span>//<span class="title">1996. </span>

“Even if this contention were correct… which this court can endorse.”

Contention 2: Possession of nuclear weapons is likely to result in nuclear war, which would be against international law.


<span style="color: black;">LACHLAN FORROW, M.D., BRUCE G. BLAIR, PH.D., IRA HELFAND, M.D., GEORGE LEWIS, PH.D., THEODORE POSTOL, PH.D.,. ACCIDENTAL NUCLEAR WAR — A POST–COLD WAR ASSESSMENT. 5/1/2002.


“Possible scenarios of an accidental…launch-on-warning protocols.”</span>


MacBride, Sean. //London Nuclear Warfare Tribunal//. 1989.


“In reality, any major nuclear exchange…the use of nuclear weapons is unlawful.”

Carnesale, Albert. “Living with Nuclear Weapons.” 1983.

“The consequences of using…it could take generations.”



AC # 4:
Ought – moral obligation

Value - Morality

Standard – Consistency with international law


<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.1pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0.1pt;">Batnitzky, Leora. “A Seamless Web? John Finnis and Joseph Raz on Practical Reason and the Obligation to Obey the Law” Oxford Journal of Legal Studies, Vol. 15, No. 2. (Summer, 1995), pp. 173. </span>

“Comprehensive goals are dependent…deviate from the rule.”

MacBride, Sean. //London Nuclear Warfare Tribunal//. 1989.


“International law has its roots in…practiced by military courts.”


Contention 1: Possession of nuclear weapons violates international law.

MacBride, Sean. //London Nuclear Warfare Tribunal//. 1989.

“The Nuremberg charter articles only mention…must be against international law.”


MacBride, Sean. //London Nuclear Warfare Tribunal//. 1989.

“All legal systems endeavor…no other rational interpretation.”


Weeramantry. “The dissenting opinion of justice weeramantry.” //The <span class="title">International Court of Justice on the Legality of Nuclear Weapons. </span>//<span class="title">1996. </span>

“Even if this contention were correct… which this court can endorse.”


Mitzen, Jennifer. “Ontological Security in World Politics: State Identity and the Security Dilemma. //Journal of International Relations.// 2006.

“To understand how security… complex, hostile environment.”


Mitzen, Jennifer. “Ontological Security in World Politics: State Identity and the Security Dilemma. //Journal of International Relations.// 2006.

“At this point, what began…be a world at war.”


Contention 2: Possession of nuclear weapons is likely to result in nuclear war, which would be against international law.

LACHLAN FORROW, M.D., BRUCE G. BLAIR, PH.D., IRA HELFAND, M.D., GEORGE LEWIS, PH.D., THEODORE POSTOL, PH.D.,. ACCIDENTAL NUCLEAR WAR — A POST–COLD WAR ASSESSMENT. 5/1/2002.


<span style="color: black;">“Possible scenarios of an accidental…launch-on-warning protocols.”</span>


MacBride, Sean. //London Nuclear Warfare Tribunal//. 1989.
“In reality, any major nuclear exchange…the use of nuclear weapons is unlawful.”


==Negative== 
<span style="line-height: 19pt;">NC #1
Ought – expressing m obligation (Oxford English Dictionary)</span>
<span style="line-height: 19pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">- Res says our guiding action </span>

Gerson 1- “much, if not all…were moral agents” [<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Gerson, Lloyd P. 2006. (Professor of Philosophy- University of Toronto, Cambriage) “The Morality of Nations: An Aristotelian Approach” </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Aristotle's Politics Today.</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> Edited by R. Talisse and L. Goodman. Google Books] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">FW must resolve these issues </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">1. ought not </span><span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 10pt;">à</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> m oblig so aff must achieve m </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">aff must prove m oblig </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">state must be a m agents</span> </span>

<span style="line-height: 19pt;">aff burden: prove states are m actors
neg burden: prove states are m actors </span>

<span style="line-height: 19pt;">Neibuhr- “A rational society…perpetuation of privelege” [<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Niebuhr, Reinhold. 1934. (Yale , theologan) “Moral man and Immoral Society: A Study in Ethics and Politics] </span> </span>

<span style="line-height: 19pt;">Gerson 2- “Just as a…mutually agreed benefits.” [same cite] </span>

<span style="line-height: 19pt;">Gerson 3- “Unless it can…in the jungle” [same cite] </span>

<span style="line-height: 19pt;"> NC #2
Ought = expressing m obligation (Oxford English Dictionary)
V= m
VC= upholding govt obligations </span>
<span style="line-height: 19pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">1- States must protect citz </span>
<span style="line-height: 19pt;">Kocs- “The most fundamental…even its existence.” [**<span style="font-family: BoldMT; font-size: 8pt;">S</span>****<span style="font-family: BoldMT; font-size: 8pt;">TATES OUGHT TO </span>****<span style="font-family: BoldMT; font-size: 8pt;">A</span>****<span style="font-family: BoldMT; font-size: 8pt;">CT IN THEIR </span>****<span style="font-family: BoldMT; font-size: 8pt;">S</span>****<span style="font-family: BoldMT; font-size: 8pt;">ELF</span>****<span style="font-family: BoldMT; font-size: 8pt;">-I</span>****<span style="font-family: BoldMT; font-size: 8pt;">NTEREST . </span>**<span style="font-family: BoldMT; font-size: 8pt;">Stephen A. Kocs ( Prof at College of the Holy Cross), International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 38, No. 4. (Dec., 1994), pp. 535-556.] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 19pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">2- Purpose of govt = protection </span>

<span style="line-height: 19pt;">C1- Govts have an obligation to retain nuclear weapons to protect their citz </span>

<span style="line-height: 19pt;">Waltz 1- “States coexist in…strategies of states.” [<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Waltz, Kenneth. [International Institute of Strategic Studies- London MORE]. //Adelphi Papers.// Number 171. 1981. “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: More May be Better.”] </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 19pt;">Waltz 2- “Nuclear weapons have…of their possessors.” [same cite] </span>

Rajagopolan- “But nuclear weapons…propensity for war.” [<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 10pt;">Rajagopalan, Rajesh . Rajesh Rajagopalan 2010 [Dr. Rajesh Rajagopalan is Professor and Chair, Centre for International Politics,
Organisation and Disarmament, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi] Strategic Analysis, Volume 34, Issue 2 March 2010 , pages 171 –179 [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?bios=true&content=a920554886&db=all&fulltext=713240928#EN0001]]] </span>

Neg # 3

V- morality

VC- maximizing security of citizens

Gov’t must take risks

C1. Nukes deter warfare

Force requires possession

LACAMP-Captain Mark LaKamp, United States Army, MORAL AND LEGAL JUDGMENTS OF THE NUCLEAR OPTION FOR COUNTER-PROLIFERATION, February, 1999 <
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://nsa.nps.navy.mil/Publications/]]</span>
Micewski/Contents.html>

“conventional response…weapons is indeed strong”

c2. Nukes promote state security

1. sate security improved with nukes

Sagan- Scott D. Sagan //International Security//, Vol. 21, No. 3 (Winter, 1996-1997), pp. 54-86, The MIT Press,
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2539273]]</span>
“states exist…extended deterrence”

2. nukes are just with nat. defense
Churchill- “the morality of… threat be made”
Robert P. Churchill, “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue”, Vol. 469, pp. 46-57. 2010. JSTOR. CL.

UDW: AFF needs advocacy

1. the greater # is impersonal
NC # 4
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Value: Morality

<span style="color: black; text-align: justify;">Dinstein, Yoram. “War, Aggression, and Self-Defense.” //Cambridge University Press.// Fourth Edition. 2005. </span>

<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0.25in; text-align: justify;">“In its 1996 Advisory Opinion…involving the use of counter-force.” </span>


<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Contention: states ought to possess nukes to protect its citizens.


Waltzer, Michael. “Just and Unjust Wars: A Moral Argument with Historical Illustrations.” //Basic Books//. 2006. </span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt; margin-bottom: 12pt;">“Against an enemy actually…comparison to be morally defensible. </span></span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]