[[toc]]
[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Vivian Ha & Dustin Meyers-Levy|Main page]]
==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**War on Terror Aff**</span>== 
===1AC=== 

[[#_GoBack]]<span class="Underline">**Observation One is the War in our Hearts:** </span>

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The War on Terror began not with an invasion, but in our hearts – it was a result of the screams of a people threatened by men flying planes into buildings. The American people finally united together in a demand to end this threat and wage war against the unknown. </span>****This debate provides us with an opportunity to investigate these demands and the war machine that they create. The war machine is not inherently evil; it is a coalescing of desires into one central goal. It is only when the State appropriates the war machine and makes its goal into peace, as it did in Vietnam and is doing in the Middle East, that total war can occur and genocide can become possible. Even though we have begun to withdraw troops, our peacekeeping mission will continue and become a war against any uncertainties – just as it became necessary to destroy Ben Tre in order to save it, so shall it become necessary to ignite the world in nuclear flames to end the threat of terrorism.** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**Buchanan 5** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Ian holds the foundation Chair of Communication and Cultural Studies at Charles Darwin University, “War in the age of intelligent machines and unintelligent government,” Australian Humanities Review Issue 36, July 2005, dml)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">This, according to Deleuze and Guattari… …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">it enters its most terrifying phase.</span>__ </span>



<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">**This cooption by the State builds up momentum for the war machine and sends it hurtling on a path to destruction. The armies rush in to foreign states and kill all those present, and the masses cheer for them – we must redirect the war machine from its current path to avoid a suicidal dive into total war and fascism.**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Gilles and Felix, philosophers and rhizomes, //A Thousand Plateaus// pg 230-231, dml)</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">There are many reasons to believe that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the war machine</span>… …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the other lines pale by comparison.</span></span></span> </span>





**To accomplish this redirection we must problematize our military presence in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Kuwait. While we would agree with a decrease in military presence, we believe the journey which represents how we came to that conclusion is more important. We are problematizing the desire of the masses which led to war and engaging in a critical reterritorialization of the lines of desire which make up the war machine. To problematize is a process of making something that was formerly seen as true into a complex and uncertain mess of questions. This makes further action impossible because we have an ethico-political deadlock in the form of a problem. We don’t know what we will result in – rather we are just a headache for debate that quietly complicates people’s lives. We open up the space to question why we hurtle towards destruction and demand that the war machine continue on.**




**Observation Two is the Liberation:**
**In response to the war machine, we invoke the ethic of the Iraqi Nomad – a political force which resolves conflict at the local level. The Nomad has become a minority force in the Middle East – constantly coded and stratified by military forces as the US seeks to militarize nomads to bolster the war effort. The figure of the nomad is alive today, but its message and potential is smothered by militarism. Ultimately, we must seek a free Nomad, disconnected from the state and its desire for purified goals and objectives. To end the militaristic drive of the war machine and redirect it towards harmless ends we must learn from the ethic of the nomad.**
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">**Greenberg 7** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Ilan, Associated Press, "Ancient Nomads Offer Insights to Modern Crises", http://www.nytimes.com/2007/08/08/world/asia/08nomads.html)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">Dr. Frachetti’s work concerns Bronze Age nomads… …<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">independence,”</span></span> he said in a telephone interview. </span>




**Our affirmation of the nomad is meaningful in that it challenges the dominant hegemonic order of the state and its ability to control the direction of the war machine. We criticize a capital-S State – not necessarily the USFG, but the ideology of imperialism which seeks to expand centralized power at the expense of smooth space. Our affirmation of the nomad is an echo of a larger struggle against the mechanisms of State fascism. We are against divisions and articulations of place and order. We affirm instead a politics of continuation – of constantly seeking new political outlets and using them as an outlet for critical redirection. In this sense, our affirmation is one which cannot be controlled – we move beyond the simple binary of beginning and ends and seek to explore the vast middle ground of infinite possibilities.**
**Conley 6** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">In their dialogues and collaborations, Gilles <span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Deleuze</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">… …</span></span>every utopian scenario, <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">all identity is undone</span></span>. </span>




**Observation Three is Nomadism in Debate:**
**Traditional debate, and this year’s topic in particular, focuses on action and war at the international level. However, this ignores the personal contribution to violence – specifically, fascism.** **Fascism is organized in the social field, determined by each individual. In this sense, the ways fascism resonates in the social field is the most important determinate of war. We must focus on fascism at the micro-level – failing to do so creates a form of self-denying desire that seeks to abolish itself, whether through incremental repression or through a rampant war machine of annihilation.**
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">**Deleuze and Guattari 80** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Gilles and Felix, philosophers and rhizomes, //A Thousand Plateaus// pg 214-215)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">It is not sufficient to define bureaucracy by a rigid</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">… …cherish with molecules both personal and collective. </span></span></span>




**The discourse of our affirmation is free, and it finds its value in its freeness. Language is not a neutral conduit – everything we say is charged with desire, and when it is focused into one expression of desire it forms a war machine. Our war machine must remain free to mutate and direct itself where it will, otherwise it will be coopted by the State and stripped of its emancipatory potential, or worse – redirected at other criticisms in an attempt to silence them. Nomadic thought is a key tool to fight against control and fascism of all forms.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 80** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Gilles and Felix, philosophers and rhizomes, //A Thousand Plateaus// pg 376-378, dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But noology is confronted by counterthoughts, which… …</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">innumerable tracings that claim to be their equal</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


<span style="tab-stops: 111.75pt right dotted 470.0pt;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Our affirmation begs the question: what exactly are we resolved about, and who is resolved? When we question what language means rather than what language does, we cannot create meaningful change and can only leave desire subordinated to the state. Desire is always pre-eminent in the socio-political sphere, and thus any discussion of politics must include a discussion of desire to avoid error replication. </span>**</span>


**Finally, this affirmation is a record. And like the Led Zeppelin “best of”, there are some tracks we hate and some we can never forget. If there is a particular song that doesn’t interest you, ignore it. If there is a track you can’t stand, delete it off your flow. Philosophy, like The Zep, is always changing its content. A core is retained, but the excesses to that core constantly evolve.**
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Massumi 83</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Brian, Professor of something at a place of respectable respectedness; A Thousand Plateaus, Introduction)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">"State philosophy" is another word for… …as you go about your daily business</span></span>. </span>

===2AC - Cede the Political=== 

**Non-unique – politics have already been rendered useless. Failing to question the roots of our desire to use military forces guarantees error replication and endless war.**
**Evans and Guillaume 10** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Brad, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds, and Laura, PhD in International Politics at Aberystwyth, “Deleuze and War: Introduction,” Theory and Event, Vol 13, Issue 3, Project Muse, dml)</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gilles Deleuze’s work displays an intimate relationship… …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">claims to hold the key to universal truth.</span>__</span>


===<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">2AC - Kritik</span>=== 

<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We need a change in the way that desire is invested; in the way collectives are formed, before any change can occur. Even if the kritik may seem revolutionary from the perspective of class and community, it is not revolutionary from the lens of desire. Post neg ballot desire and mindsets do not change, at best they are only papered over with a new name and a new regime. A failure to focus on desire of the individual, and the repressions of those desires, makes their social change impossible and renders their roadmap for change not only futile but also counterproductive.</span>**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Deleuze and Guattari 1972</span></span>**, Anti-Oedipus, 347-8 </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: right dotted 470.0pt;"><span class="underline">Not only can the libidinal investment… …never takes the place of a machine of desire. </span></span>