<span style="color: #000000; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">I believe the purpose of the wiki is to improve the educational quality of debate through promoting open access to evidence and higher evidentiary standards, so I will post links to all of the articles that I have cut for use in my cases on the wiki. I do not, however, believe that it should be used merely as a way for lazy debaters to mine for cards- debaters can only learn about the important topics we debate through actually reading topic literature. To that end, I have posted links to the sources that I have cut, but not the actual content of the cards that I cut. </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">If you got questions you can ask them here:</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.formspring.me/HardInDaPaint</span>

=AC 1-= 

V. Morality
Cr. Util

Metaethics -
[[http://www.theonion.com/articles/nations-morons-march-on-washington-state,2832/]]

Util is the Best Ethical Theory -
[[http://www.theonion.com/articles/asskisser-promoted,857/]]

C1 -
[[http://www.theonion.com/articles/nations-morons-march-on-washington-state,2832/|http://www.theonion.com/articles/obama-returns-from-india-with-these-gross-candies,18468/]]

C2 -
[[http://www.theonion.com/articles/tonys-law-would-require-marijuana-users-to-inform,1298/]]

C3 -
[[http://www.theonion.com/articles/local-preteen-violates-best-friends-menstruation-n,1639/]]

=NC 1 -= 

V. Morality
Cr. Util

C1-
[[http://www.meatspin.com|http://www.jstor.org-util_consequentialism_human_extinction]]

=Terrorism DA= 

V. Morality
Cr. Util

C1 -
[[http://www.theonion.com/articles/local-man-foremost-expert-on-what-the-terrorists-s,18432/]]

=Politics DA= 
V. Morality
Cr. Util

C1 -
[[http://www.theonion.com/articles/poll-finds-majority-of-male-voters-would-have-elec,18436/]]


=OffCases-= 

K's + Theory Bad
[[http://robinsoncorner.blogspot.com/2009/10/jrob-technique-i-dare-you.html]]

=AT Disclosure Theory= 

This is the best article I have found which answers disclosure theory
[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ADiZpOPRzFo|http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/02/26/1501665/uk-court-orders-disclosure-of.html]]

=Cap K= 

Observation 1 - Framework
[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9_asu7n6QUc|www.wsu.edu/~dee/GLOSSARY/CAPITAL.HTM]]

Observation 2 - Links
[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1ohYsK5Y8Dc|www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5193]]

Observation 3 - Impacts
[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4AO4IGNl8Qg|http://muse.jhu.edu/login?uri=/journals/victorian_studies/v046/46.3rose.html]]

Observation 4 - Alt.
[[http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/40339679/ns/us_news-weird_news/]]

=Skepticism K= 

Moral Theories Are Infinitely Regressive
http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/40359277/ns/local_news-winstonsalem_nc/

Justice = Violence
http://eatocracy.cnn.com/2010/09/07/long-live-the-wing-queen/

=Felons DA= 

A is Uniqueness:
We're on the brink of people going hard in da paint
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7D7zdMf0Jes

B is Link:


C is Impact:
Kids smoke with cigarettes
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qcqOgnQyXp4


=Narrative AC= 

All ethical theories collapse into discourse. We can't understand normativity without first looking to language.
[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lQPT3WYjEJc|http://www.jstor.org/stable/2672716]]

Welll, obviously we have a narrative in the AC.
[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hMtZfW2z9dw&feature=fvw|http://www.eric.ed.gov/ERICWebPortal/search/detailmini.jsp?_nfpb=true&_&ERICExtSearch_SearchValue_0=EJ581931&ERICExtSearch_SearchType_0=no&accno=EJ581931]]

=Prison Rape Good AC= 

Prison Rape is key to Ontological authenticity. Only by "dropping the soap" can man understand his inner-being.

[[http://www.meatspin.com|http://muse.jhu.edu/login?uri=/journals/victorian_studies/v046/46.3rose.html]]


=VBI 2011 Top Lab Targetted Killing Files= 
[[http://www.meatspin.com|https://spreadsheets.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AqTScrdctiOydDZNMXNfTDhHU2NlRG1qaWpDVGRwbVE#gid=6]]

=NSD 2011 Top Lab Theory File= 

[[http://www.meatspin.com|http://utildebater.wikispaces.com/nsd_util_hasnas]]