[[toc]]
[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Back to Main Page]]


=Topicality= 




==Presence is Non-Combat== 


Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence
Thomason, 2 – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http: citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf

WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? [...] or contingency should call for them.




==ASPEC== 


We read it, I don't know what the shell says, remember Elmore 80




==Framework== 




===1NC - Valley (vs. CR Wash BK)=== 



The affirmative must defend a world where the United States federal government substantially decrease its military presence in the U.S. The sole purpose of the ballot is to answer the resolutional question: Is the outcome of the enactment of a topical plan better than the status quo or a competitive policy option?

This is most predictable – 


“Resolved” before a colon reflects a legislative forum
Army Officer School, 04 (5-12, “# 12, Punctuation – The Colon and Semicolon”, http: usawocc.army.mil/IMI/wg12.htm)

The colon introduces the following: [...] That this council petition the mayor.


And, “United States Federal Government should” means the debate is solely about the outcome of a policy established by governmental means
Ericson, 03 (Jon M., Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts – California Polytechnic U., et al., The Debater’s Guide, Third Edition, p. 4)

The Proposition of Policy: Urging [...] the future action that you propose. 


The affirmative does not meet this because they ask you to reject security instead of defending the adoption of the resolution.





=Counterplans= 






==Consult NATO== 






===1NC - Greenhill (vs. Round Rock AS)=== 




Observation One: Text
The United States federal government will enter into binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization over whether they should do the plan. 
The United States Federal Government will adopt the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s recommendations. We reserve the right to clarify.


Observation Three: The Net Benefit
Consultation with NATO is key to avoid total collapse of the alliance and conflict with Europe
Philip H Gordon, senior fellow in foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, 7/1/04, “Letter to Europe”, The Brookings Institution, http: www.brookings.edu/articles/2004/07europe_gordon.aspx, umn-rks

DEAR FRIENDS. How did it [...] of strategic partnership with the US.


Collapse causes multiple escalatory nuclear wars
John Duffield, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, “POLITICAL SCIENCE QUARTERLY”, 109, 1994, p. 766-767.

Initial analyses of NATO's future prospects [...] given the existence of nuclear weapons.




==NMS CP== 




===1NC - Greenhill (vs. Mountain Brook GH)=== 


Text – The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a national military strategy, and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that ending missile defense presence in Japan is necessary to achieve that national security goals of the United States. We’ll clarify. 


Solves – NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan

Meinhart 8 (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http: www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

To meet these challenges, the [...] complex and ambiguous global security environment. 


NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning
Riley 94 (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http: www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)

Should not the National Military Strategy [...] 20 years from now begins today. 


Observation Two is the Net Benefit:
Obama’s approach to military decision-making solidifies good civil-military relations 
CNAS 10 – Center for a New American Security, May 17, 2010, “Civil-Military Relations in the Obama Era,” online: http: www.cnas.org/blogs/abumuqawama/2010/05/civil-military-relations-obama-era.html

This article by Jonathan Alter in [...] U.S. Constitution intended.


The CP facilitates inclusion of the JCS in military policy --- this is crucial to rebalance CMR

Gibson '8 – PhD @ Cornell Univ. (Christopher P., "Securing the State: Reforming the National Security Decision-making Process at the Civil-Military Nexus," p.106-112, RG)

At this point the argument moves [...] , Joint Chiefs of Staff.12


Reducing foreign military presence sparks massive backlash that undermines CMR
Kohn 8 - Richard H. Kohn, Professor of History at the University of North Carolina, Winter 2008, “Coming Soon: A Crisis in Civil-Military Relations,” World Affairs, online: http: www.worldaffairsjournal.org/articles/2008-Winter/full-civil-military.html

Yet imagine the outcry any one [...] now, or pay me later.”


C. Weak CMR destroys recruitment and readiness
Cohn – Graduate Student in Political Science at Duke – 1999 (Lindsay, "The Evolution of the Civil-Military "Gap" Debate," www.poli.duke.edu/civmil/cohn_literature_review.pdf)

There do seem to be a [...] ranks, and reduced effectiveness.76 


D. Readiness key to US Hegemony
Connolly 03 (Thomas, Resident Scholar at AEI, 2/1. http: www.aei.org/publications /pubID.15845/pub_detail.asp)

The preservation of today's Pax Americana [...] that underlies the logic of primacy.




==Appropriations CP== 




===1NC - Valley (vs. CR Wash BK)=== 


TEXT: The United States Congress should end all funding for [insert what the plan withdraws]


It competes, only the president has the power to withdraw military forces, the counterplan just ends funding which solves

Jeffrey Rosen, author, 3/4/07, “In Wartime, Who Has the Power?”, The New York Times, http: www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1, umn-rks

Legal scholars — both critics and [...] month for specified numbers of troops. 


Now is key – the counterplan checks a unilateral executive

Maya Schenwar, executive director, 2/14/09, “Congress Aims to Take Back Constitutional War Powers”, truthout, a non-profit organization, http: www.truth-out.org/011409J, umn-rks

Congress took little initiative to rein [...] out the terms of the agreement."


Unilateral executive risks interventionist wars and kills the constitution

Arthur Meier Schlesinger, Pulitzer prize winning historian, 2004, “The imperial presidency “, p. 497-498, google books, umn-rks

There is little more typically American [...] in useless wars and grandiose dreams.


Global nuclear war

Jorge Hirsch, 11/1/05, “The Real Reason for Nuking Iran”, Antiwar.com, http: www.antiwar.com/orig/hirsch.php?articleid=7861, umn-rks

Yes, you read it right [...] will lead to global nuclear war.







=Disads= 




==ABL Disad== 




===1NC - Valley (vs. Iowa City HS)=== 


No funding for the airborne laser now

Stephen Trimble, 2/17/10, “Airborne Laser faces uncertain future despite historic intercept test”, Flightglobal, http: www.flightglobal.com/articles/2010/02/17/338475/airborne-laser-faces-uncertain-future-despite-historic-intercept.html

The Airborne Laser Testbed (ALTB [...] FY2012 budget request, he says. 


Plan saves money which goes back into the budget

Fred Kaplan, 2/26/09, “The New Pentagon Budget—So New?”, Slate, http: www.slate.com/id/2212323/pagenum/all/#p2

Much remains unknown about the shape [...] of budgets reshuffled, not reduced. 


Lobbies mean ABL funding will be restored

Aviation Week 5/9/07 (ABL Team Lobbying Lawmakers For Full Funding, http: www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=aerospacedaily&id=news/ABL050907.xml&headline=ABL%20Team%20Lobbying%20Lawmakers%20For%20Full%20Funding)ZDM

The U.S. Missile [...] a teleconference with reporters May 8.


That causes a new arms race

Paul Rogers, Professor of Government at Bradford University, ‘2 [Directed energy: a new kind of weapon, http: www.opendemocracy.net/conflict/article_153.jsp]

The United States development of directed [...] this is not to be discounted. 


Extinction

Jeff Hech, M.Ed. Higher Education –MA in Electronic Engineering - Editor @ Laser Focus World, ’84 [Beam Weapons: The Next Arms Race, p. 10-11]

It’s only appropriate that the obstacles [...] ultimate escalation to World War III.




==Politics== 




===SKFTA=== 




====1NC - Valley (vs. Maine East PS)==== 

The South Korean free trade agreement will pass – Obama’s pushing and it’s at the top of the agenda.

Yonhap News Agency 9/17/10 (“Obama says will seek Korea FTA’s ratification as soon as possible,” Hwang Doo-Hyong, http: english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2010/09/17/26/0301000000AEN20100917000200315F.HTML)

WASHINGTON, Sept. 16 ( [...] a first for an Asian country."


Political capital is key to passage.

Doo-Hyong ‘09 (Hwang, 11/20, Staff Writer, Yonhap News, “Obama on short stay makes progress on N. Korean nukes, FTA: experts,” http: english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2009/11/20/39/0301000000AEN20091120000300315F.HTML)

"Congress has been increasingly skeptical [...] counter the rising influence of China."


The plan costs political capital.

Barry ’09 (Tom, CIP senior analyst, 1-19, “Obama’s Immigration Challenge: More about Words than Policy,” http: www.cipamericas.org/archives/1601)

Another divisive debate over the details [...] the right to be treated fairly.


The KORUS FTA controls the best internal link into free trade – it would be modeled.
Cooper and Manyin ’07 (William and Mark, Specialists in International Trade and Finance and Asian Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Congressional Research Service, “The Proposed South Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA),” http: www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33435.pdf)

In terms of broader U. [...] yield relatively little in commercial benefits.


Protectionism causes environmental degradation 
Boin and Okonski 8 - * Director of International Policy Network’s Environment Program Coordinator of the Sustainable Development Network 
(“Protectionism harms consumers and the environment.” In Defense of Liberty. Caroline and Kendra, http: indefenceofliberty.org/story.aspx?id=950&pubid=668)

In January, European leaders suggested [...] invest in new, cleaner technologies. 


Ecosystem collapse causes extinction.
Cairns, 2004
[John Cairns, 2004. Department of Biology, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. “Future of Life on Earth,” Ethics in Science and Environmental Politics, www.int-res.com/esepbooks/EB2Pt2.pdf] 

One lesson from the five great [...] posterity by continuing to live unsustainably?



====1NC - Glenbrooks (vs. Damien MM)==== 



Obama pushing SKFTA now
Carmichael 11-3 (Kevin Carmichael, “Trade may be next focus for Obama,” Globe and Mail, 11-3-2010, http://www.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/economy/trade/trade-may-be-next-focus-for-obama/article1783243/)

The end of the latest U [...] Organization, Mr. Hufbauer said.


Political capital is key to passage.
Michael Green 11-1 Senior advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C.Jooang Daily http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2927756

Obama is instinctively a free- [...] and is committed to this goal.


Ratification of the FTA is key to check North Korean proliferation.
Cooper and Manyin ’07 (William and Mark, Specialists in International Trade and Finance and Asian Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Congressional Research Service, “The Proposed South Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA),” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33435.pdf)

An FTA may also be viewed [...] some friction between the two allies.

Global nuclear war
Richardson ‘06 (Corey, Washington-based analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, “The Coming East Asian Arms Race,” DPRK Studies, July 25, http://www.dprkstudies.org/2006/07/25/the-coming-east-asian-arms-race/?cat=41)

It goes like this; The [...] will be in Korea and Japan.


====2NC Uniqueness - Glenbrooks==== 

Will pass – negotiations now
Hwang Doo-hyong, skfta hack, 11/19/10, “(LEAD) Amb. Han expects S. Korea, U.S. to conclude FTA talks soon”, http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2010/11/19/43/0301000000AEN20101119001100315F.HTML, umn-rks

WASHINGTON, Nov. 18 ( [...] with which we have trading relationships."


Bipartisanship means it will pass
Hwang Doo-hyong, skfta hack, 11/16/10, “Kerry eyes bipartisan approval of Korea FTA in next Congress”, Yonhap, http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2010/11/16/91/0301000000AEN20101116000700315F.HTML, umn-rks

WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 ( [...] Washington to conclude negotiations with Kirk.


South Korea free trade is at the top of the agenda.
Donga 11-1http://english.donga.com/srv/service.php3?biid=2010103030408

The White House says the bilateral [...] alliance and enhance Korea’s international standing.



===EPA=== 

====1NC - Sections (vs. Eden Prairie CL)==== 

EPA funding will be cut now – Republicans are pushing reductions.
Mason 1/3/11 (Colonel, The Examiner, http://www.examiner.com/county-environmental-news-in-dallas/new-congress-set-to-cut-epa-funding)

DALLAS (Jan. 3, [...] -committee where EPA is regulated.


[LINK]


Political capital is key to block cuts – otherwise the EPA will disintegrate.
Cohen 12/28/10(Steven, Executive Director, The Earth Institute, Columbia University,
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/steven-cohen/defending-epa-against-the_b_801876.html)

I don't see the symbolic posturing [...] against the coming right wing attack.


EPA regulation is key to solve warming – multiple initiatives prove.
EC 12/23/10 (The Energy Collective, http://theenergycollective.com/jessejenkins/48969/obama-facing-tough-balancing-act-epa-advances-greenhouse-gas-regulations)

The EPA is obligated by court [...] may be reluctant to engage in.


Extinction.
Tickell ’08 (Oliver, Climate Researcher, August 11, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)

We need to get prepared for [...] us towards a similar hothouse Earth. 




=Kritiks= 





==Nietzsche== 




===1NC Suffering - Greenhill (vs. Round Rock AS)=== 


The Aff represents the Socratic Will to Order in its attempt to control the world. This manifests in our attempts to resolve the chaotic aspects of life and avoid suffering. This requires the construction of an ideal real world toward which our apparent world aspires, creating life as negative vis-à-vis our internalization of ressentiment 
Paul Saurette, 1996, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory.” Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25, number 1. pp. 3-6]

The Philosophical Foundation of the Will … point of view of its interpretation.’


The desire for mastery and control the affirmative replicates only creates ressentiment for our current existence. Such hatred and search for a new life makes life laughable and makes extinction desirable. 
Friedrich Nietzsche, German Philosopher, 1886, “Beyond Good and Evil”, p. 342

Whether hedonism, or pessimism, or utilitarianism, … , through the cultivation of great suffering?


Their attempt to resolve these threats and solve problems creates a hatred of life. This mandates a desire to fight against external dangers giving way to a war on difference, ignoring that the world can never be contained, managed, or secured because danger is integral to life. 
James Der Derian, Professor of International Studies at Brown University, 1998, “On Security”, p. 32-34, CIAO

The will to power, then, should … consciousness is confused with its causes." 41


The Socratic delusion creates mastery, control, and violence as a justification for achieving the end goal of the “Real World” 
Paul Saurette, 1996, “I mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory.” Millenium Journal of International Studies. Vol. 25, number 1. pp. 1-28

The dichotomisation of the ideal and … is neither factual nor beyond critique.


Thus the Alternative – Embrace the 1AC impacts as way of accepting the unknowable aspects of life. You must take the risk of exposing yourself to violent impacts and abandon the desire for control. This risks danger but your mortality is a certainty. The alternative is the only way to bring meaning to life by living life eventfully through a rolling of the dice. 
Gilles Deleuze, French Philosopher, 1983, “Nietzsche and Philosophy”, p. 25-27


The game has two moments which … nature of the fatally obtained number.




===1NC Security - Greenhill (vs. GBS HJ)=== 


Insecurity and danger are inevitable – the attempt to control it only breeds violence

James Der Derian, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 1998, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks

The rapidity of change in the [...] site for a permanently electioneering elite.


Their framework of controlling the world creates a hatred for life. Their attempt to solve problems ignores that danger is inevitable and integral to life

James Der Derian, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 1998, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks

Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's [...] of mistrust and evil experiences." 39


Thus the alternative – embrace the instability of the status quo by allowing the Aff impacts to happen.

Our deaths are inevitable, the only question is how we face it. Only by embracing the violence of the 1AC can we truly affirm life. The Aff attempt to solve these problems only traps us in a cycle of resentment that makes this very security inevitable

Joanne Faulkner, ARC Research Fellow in the School of History and Philosophy at the University of New South Wales, Spring/Autumn 2008, “The Innocence of Victimhood Versus the “Innocence of Becoming”: Nietzsche, 9/11, and the “Falling Man””, The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Project MUSE, umn-rks

Most significantly, for the purposes [...] must have felt like flying.”33 


=="Breila"== 

Our take on the Security K


===1NC - Dowling (vs. GBS OS)=== 


<insert specific link>


Their securitized representations justify biopolitical control and genocide
Coviello 2K—Peter, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, Apocalypse From Now On

Perhaps. But to claim that [...] that can scarcely be done without.


Their framework of control creates a hatred for life
James Der Derian, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, 1998, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard”, On Security, CIAO, umn-rks

Nietzsche transvalues both Hobbes's and Marx's [...] of mistrust and evil experiences." 39


The alternative is to vote negative – rejecting their representations is key to emancipatory politics
Mark Neocleous, Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel Univ ‘8 [Critique of Security, 185-6]

The only way out of such [...] enough to return the gift."'



===1NC Afghanistan Link=== 

Framing Afghanistan in terms of global security upholds a militarized form of security that justifies genocidal politics. 
Neil Cooper Peace Studies @ Bradford ‘5 “Picking out the Pieces of the Liberal Peaces: Representations of Conflict Economies and the Implications for Policy” Security Dialogue 36 (4) p. 471-

The political economies of contemporary conflicts [...] trading structures that contribute to underdevelopment. 


===1NC China Link===

A. Not an objective reality—the China threat and territorial grabs is a discursive construct that gives rise to a falsehood designed to ratify Western power 
Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, at Deakin University, August 2004, Discourses Of ‘China’ In International Relations: A Study in Western Theory as (IR) Practice, p. 141-142

These are some of the questions  [...] ; it was cognitively constructed beforehand.


B. These representations make war inevitable  
Chengxin Pan, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, at Deakin University, August 2004, Discourses Of ‘China’ In International Relations: A Study in Western Theory as (IR) Practice, p. 43-44

Like the liberal construction of Other  [...] their leading role in world affairs.


==Spatial Geopolitical Demarcation/Maps Bad== 

===1NC - Harvard RR (vs. Pembroke HV)=== 

The affirmative’s identification of distinct countries and governing entities is a political act designed to reinforce the control of territorial boundaries and subjugation of peoples within those territories
Shapiro, 1988. - International Relations Theorist and professor of political science at the University of Hawaii (Michael J., The Politics of Representation: Writing practices in Biography, Photography, and Policy Analysis, Pub. By University of WI, Madison, p. 92)

Although there are relatively few quarrels [...] the existing power and authority configurations.


Hold 1AC impact claims suspect due to their unquestioning assumption of borders– the wars they isolate are a product of individuals transformed into abstractions leading to endless violence – assigning space to fit western interests guarantees targeting of the other
Gregory prof geography @ U British columbia 2k5 (Derek, “The role of geography in public debate” Eds Alex Murphy Prog Hum Geogr 2005 29: 165)

So, to return to the [...] to a truly progressive human geography.


Thus the alternative – reject the 1AC and its concept of spacial-political demarcations.

Changing our thinking is the first step to challenging the ordering of the world through borders 
Rajaram- Professor @ University of California, Los Angeles - Anderson School of Business – 2006 (Kumar, Oct-Dec, “Dystopic Geographies of Empire” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political)

The spaces of orderly relations, [...] and maintenance in the contemporary world.


===2NC Iraq Links=== 

Iraq is a colonial construct forced upon the people after WWI
SCOTT ATRAN, scientist at the University of Michigan Institute for Social Research in Ann Arbor and the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique in France. March 7, 2003 LOCAL COMMENT: U.S. off target in terror war Nation can't root out problem having wrong view of attackers, http://sitemaker.umich.edu/satran/files/satran_3-7-03_detroit_fp.pdf

Post-war plans for Iraq [...] the aftermath of World War I.


Understanding Iraq as having an imposed boundary key to understanding its poltics
Daniel Baldino, Hawke Research Institute for Sustainable Societies, Univ. of South Australia 2006
Hawke Research Institute Working Paper Series No 34 PROBLEMS OF ORDER, IDENTITY AND JUSTICE IN WORLD POLITICS: FIGHTING TERROR AND THE ROLE OF EXTERNAL ACTORS IN FOSTERING DEMOCRACY ABROAD http://www.unisa.edu.au/hawkeinstitute/publications/downloads/wp34.pdf

The powerful influence of structural context [...] integrity and the prospects of democracy.




=Impact Turns= 





==Biodiversity Loss Good== 





===1NC - Greenhill (vs. Round Rock AS)=== 



Subpoint A is defense – there is no impact to biodiversity loss

FIRST, it’s inevitable – no moral reason to protect species

Nassim Nicholas Taleb, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York University, and Distinguished Research Scholar, Said Business School, Oxford University, THE BLACK SWAN: THE IMPACT OF THE HIGHLY IMPROBABLE, 2007, p108-109

The stability of species. Take [...] feel moral responsibility for every endangered species


SECOND, it will be slow and without impact

Julian Simon, Professor of Business Administration at the University of Maryland, 2/16/98, “Are Humans Causing Species Holocaust?”, The Ultimate Resource II: People, Materials, and Environment, http: www.juliansimon.com/writings/Ultimate_Resource/TCHAR31.txt, umn-rks

Starting in the early 1980s I [...] gist of the the authors' arguments.)


Subpoint B is offense – species loss is good


FIRST, it’s key to evolutionary change and long-term benefit

Michael Boulter, professor of paleobiology at the University of East London, 2002, “Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man”, p. 170, google books, umn-rks

The same trend of long- [...] a whole selection of vulnerable organisms.


SECOND, biodiversity is bad – relying only on complex systems risks total failure

Jim Heath, December 1999, “Why Save Orchids Under Threat?”, Orchids Australia, http: www.orchidsaustralia.com/whysave.htm, umn-rks 

Some people say we can’t afford [...] makes the biological world more stable.


THIRD, the impact is extinction

Michael Boulter, professor of paleobiology at the University of East London, 2002, “Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man”, p. 67, google books, umn-rks

If biological evolution really is a [...] to retain life on this planet.



==China War Good== 



===1NC - Greenhill (vs. Mountain Brook GH)=== 

China war is good:

1. War is inevitable 
a) Pentagon studies 
Ergas, Dec 5, ‘6 Zeki, visiting scholar for three years at the Institute of International Studies of the University of California, at Berkeley, and for four years at the at the African Studies Program of the School of Foreign Service, at Georgetown University, presently Secretary General of PEN International’s Swiss Romand Center and lives in Geneva, “Introduction: The Neo-con Project for a New American Century and its Implications”

As its title indicates, according [...] the 43 African countries that participated. 


b) Energy competition 
Bajpaee 05, Researcher for Civic Exchange, HK-based think-tank and for Intl. Inst for Strategic Studies, (Chietigi China's Quest for Energy. PINR 2/25 www.isn.ethz.ch/news/sw/details.cfm?ID=10840)

Friction between China and the West [...] vital strategic interests are not threatened.


c) China’s self-image 
Krolikowski ‘8 (Alanna is a doctoral student in International Relations at the Department of Political Science of the University of Toronto. She completed an MA in International Relations at the Munk Centre for International Relations of the University of Toronto in August 2006; State Personhood in Ontological Security Theories of International Relations and Chinese Nationalism: A Sceptical View: http: www.utoronto.ca/ethnicstudies/Krolikowski_2008.pdf)

According to such an approach, [...] different situations, adaptation and learning. 


2. China is modernizing its nuclear forces now 
Gill, phd, Director of SIPRI, 10 [Bates, “CHINA AND NUCLEAR ARMS CONTROL: CURRENT POSITIONS AND FUTURE POLICIEs” , http: books.sipri.org/files/insight/SIPRIInsight1004.pdf] 

Nonetheless, China is in the [...] will be particularly important in this regard


And, Chinese modernization prevents US and Russian nuclear cuts 
Reuters, 10 [China seen staking "middle" role at nuclear talks”, april. http: www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE63P0GB20100426]

"China is unlikely to take [...] multilateral disarmament discussions," said Gill.


Those prevents Russian loose nukes from falling into the hands of terrorists
NSN, 09 [National Security Network, “Start with START”, http: www.nsnetwork.org/node/1348]

A START follow-on will [...] , 6/23/09.] 


Loose nukes culminate in global nuclear war
Speice, 6 (Patrick F., Jr., J.D. Candidate 2006, Marshall-Wythe School of Law, College of William and Mary; B.A. 2003, Wake Forest University, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, 2006, ln)

The potential consequences of the unchecked [...] the use of nuclear weapons. 53


3. War now is good --- 
A) Eliminates the Chinese arsenal 
Lieber and Press, 9 (Keir A., Associate Professor @ Georgetown University, Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government, Dartmouth College, Foreign Affairs, Nov/Dec)

Today, a multiple-warhead [...] .S. president real options.


B) China’s military is woefully inadequate --- a US attack obliterates their military capacity 
Lieber and Presse 6 – Keir A. Leiber, author of War and the Engineers: The Primacy of Politics over Technology, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame. Daryl G. Press, author of Calculating Credibility: How Leaders Assess Military Threats, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania ("The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy, Foreign Affairs, March/April 2006)

China's nuclear arsenal is even more [...] it for a decade or more. 





==Growth Bad== 





===1NC - Greenhill (vs. Round Rock AS)=== 


FIRST, Sustainability – economic collapse is inevitable


Collapse of society is inevitable – history proves

Debora MacKenzie, writer, 4/5/08, “Are we doomed?”, New Scientist, Academic Search Premier, umn-rks

DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation [...] stop destroying our environmental support systems.


Economic collapse does not cause war—their historical arguments are wrong
FERGUSON 2006 (Niall, MA, D.Phil., is the Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University. He is a resident faculty member of the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies. He is also a Senior Reseach Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford University, and a Senior Fellow of the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, Foreign Affairs, Sept/Oct)

Nor can economic crises explain the [...] crises were not followed by wars.


Decline won’t cause war – economic growth is a precondition 

Daniel Deudney, Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Princeton, April 1991, “Environment and Security: Muddled Thinking”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, p. 27, google books, umn-rks

Poverty Wars. In a second [...] specialized industrial products and surplus wealth.


Dedev ends all war and violence

Ted Trainer, Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the School of Social Work, University of New South Wales, 1995, The Conserver Society, p. 165

If the foregoing analysis is valid [...] has any desire to threaten you.


Turns democracy – international tensions from economics prevent free speech

Christopher Chase-Dunn, Director of the Institute for Research on World-Systems, University of California-Riverside, and Bruce Podobnik, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Lewis and Clark College, 1999, in The Future of Global Conflict, ed. Bornschier and Chase-Dunn, pp. 53

It is well known that even [...] democratic peace that warfare would be justified




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]