[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>== 
I Affirm and value **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Morality</span>**. Morality is the key value for the round because the resolution uses the term ought. Merriam Webster’s defines ought as a Moral obligation, making Morality the utmost value in the round.  

First, Moral Laws must be universal. Kant writes… 
Immanuel Kant, “Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals” translated by Thomas Abbott <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://evans-experientialism.freewebspace.com/kant_groundwork_metaphysics_morals01.htm]]</span> 
But what sort of law can that be, ...extorts from me immediate respect for such legislation. 

Second, because if I view myself as having value, I must extend that value to all others. Applbaum writes… 
Arthur Isak Applbaum “Are Violations of Rights Ever Right?” Source: Ethics, Vol. 108, No. 2 (Jan., 1998), pp. 340-366 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2382196]]</span> Accessed: 13/10/2010 20:11 
Although Kamm's is the earlier account.... all have reason to avoid and prevent. 

Third, Inviolability is key for a person to have moral status. Kamm writes 
Kamm, Frances. "In Search of the Deep Structure of Morality. An Interview with Frances Kamm." Interview by Alex Voorhoeve. Vancouver Island University. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://records.viu.ca/www/ipp/pdf/kamm.pdf]]</span> DOA; 8/10/10 
The key idea I was grappling with when ....treat them that determines their worth. 

Reducing humans to the status of violable makes people expendable and leads to every atrocity known to man. Dillon writes  
Dillon ‘99 (Michael, Professor of IR @ Lancaster, “Another Justice” Political Theory, Vol. 27, No. 2. April, pp. 165) 
Thus no valuation without .... dealing always with whatever exceeds measure."  

The only reason that other things have value is because Human Beings give them that value. This means that there must be moral constraints on actions, for if there are none, then Humans lose their value, along with everything that derives from Human values.  
Thomas Hill, Jr. “Self-regarding suicide: A modified Kantian view,” in Autonomy and Self-Respect, Cambridge University Press, 1991, 102-103. Googlebooks. DOA: 10/13/10 
The second argument is roughly this: The most valuable .... must be valued for their own sake.  

Thus, the criterion must be treating people as ends in and of themselves. Kant 2 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span></span>
Immanuel Kant, “Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals” translated by Thomas Abbott <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://evans-experientialism.freewebspace.com/kant_groundwork_metaphysics_morals01.htm]]</span> 
The ends which a rational being proposes to .... this can be practically carried out. 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span></span>
Contention 1: The possession of nuclear weapons treats people as mere means. The possession of nuclear weapons is morally equivalent to hostage holding for 3 reasons 
Steven P. Lee “Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences.” Ethics 95:3 Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, University of Chicago Press, 594-566. (April 1985) 
What is morally wrong with hostage holding? .... even though there is no consent.  


Contention 2: Even a small nuclear war could case extinction.  

<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;">A. A small war between India and Pakistan would make the world uninhabitable. The Columbia tribune writes </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"> </span>
Columbia Tribune, November 7, 2007 [http://www.columbiatribune.com/2007/Nov/20071107News006.asp]  
Starr (Steven, University of Missouri-Columbia) further explained that .... then how successful was it?" Starr asked.  

<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;">B. When Iran Proliferates, it will spark a nuclear war in the middle east </span>

Stanley Kurtz [Stanley Kurtz is an adjunct fellow of Hudson Institute, a fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford, and a Senior Fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center. Kurtz graduated from Haverford College and holds a PhD in social anthropology form Harvard University. Kurtz is also a Dewey Prize Lecturer in Psychology at the University of Chicago]. Our Fallout-Shelter Future. National Review Online. August 28, 2006. National Review Online. http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=OWU4MDMwNmU5MTI5NGYzN2FmODg5NmYyMWQ4YjM3OTU= 
Rosen assumes (rightly I believe) that proliferation .... from escalating into nuclear confrontations. 

Thus, nuclear weapons treat people as mere means, and thus are immoral, and I ask for an affirmative ballot.  
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>

==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]