[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: justify;">**Fro Rly AC** </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: justify;">**V: M** </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: justify;">Morality must be prescriptive </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">D. Wingerter “Descriptive and Prescriptive</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;"> Truth” </span>

“The 18th century…certain behaviors” 

Only practical reason can hold persons morally responsible 
Dwight Furrow. “Moral Agency.” Ethics. 2005. 
"This is because...morality requires freedom." 

**S: treating people as ends in themselves**

Human beings have inherent worth 
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">//Killing and letting die// By Bonnie Steinbock, Alastair Norcross Contributor Bonnie Steinbock, Alastair Norcross Published by Fordham Univ Press, 1994 ISBN 0823215628, 9780823215621 431 pages. Warren Quinn </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Times;">“A person is…the collective whole.” </span>

Humans are inviolable 
“Inviolability.” Francis Kamm. 

“The key idea…in other ways.” 

<span style="line-height: normal;">I contend the possession of nuclear weapons treats people as mere means. </span>

Bluffs and indecision still require a conditional intention to use nukes 
McMahan, Jeff. “Deterrence and Deontology.” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium oyn Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr. 1985), pp. 517-536. 

“Suppose for the sake…such an intention.” 

<span style="line-height: normal;">Since there must be a conditional intention to use nukes, the possession of nuclear weapons violates constraints on self-defense. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">Donaldson, Thomas. “Deterrence and Self-Defense.” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr. 1985), pp. 537-548. University of Chicago Press. <span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381036|__http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381036__]]</span> </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">“The critical moral…of the human species.” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">False alarms in regional arms races cause nuclear war </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">Perkovich, George. Nuclear Proliferation. Foreign Policy, No. 112 (Autumn, 1998), pp. 12-23. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">“However it is…launch nuclear warheads.” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">Nuclear war guarantees extinction- new studies prove that there will be massive casualties, famine and that nuclear winter guarantees extinction </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">Hogan, (Regional Nuclear War Could Devastate Global Climate, Science Daily, December 11, 2006.) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">“A study presented…according to the researchers.”</span>



<span style="line-height: normal;">**If you’re reading this…hi AC** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">Ought expresses desirability </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">V: Justice </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">Justice must be absolute </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">1. If justice is not absolute then there are times when you value something else </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">2. The resolution is stated non-comparatively </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">3. Utilitarianism cannot have a link to morality and only evaluates actions ex-post facto. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">VC: Discriminating between innocent and guilty </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">1. This is a standard not dependent upon a specific legal context but can be applied universally, irrespective of local laws. It is morally understood that you do not harm innocent people along with the guilty, but you also do not let the guilty go unpunished.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">2. Justice must respect noncombatant immunity</span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">Carlino, Michael A. “On the Moral Importance of Noncombatant Immunity”. ISME. The International Society for Military Ethics is an organization of military professionals, academics and others formed to discuss ethical issues relevant to the military. The Society’s meetings have been held each year since 1979. "<span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.google.com/url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fisme.tamu.edu%2FJSCOPE04%2FCarlino04.html&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNFdZ4wtMK92c6Q6VqdL8QFEPhUjvQ]]</span>" <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://isme.tamu.edu/JSCOPE04/Carlino04.html]]</span> </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">“The idea of…right to kill.” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">3. Combatants agree to exchange their rights which distinguishes them from non-combatants</span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">Carlino 2</span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">“The aforementioned right…ad bellum concern.”</span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">I contend that nuclear weapons do not distinguish between innocence and guilt.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">The possession of nuclear weapons for the purpose of deterrence violate the rule of non-combatant immunity</span>
McMahan, Jeff. “Deterrence and Deontology.” Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium oyn Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr. 1985), pp. 517-536. 

“Suppose for the sake…such an intention.” 

<span style="line-height: normal;">The mere possession of nuclear weapons causes much harm to innocent people.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">Ware Alyn, Coordinator of the Parliamentary Network for Nuclear Disarmament, “Health and Environmental Effects of the Production and </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">Testing of Nuclear Weapons,” 1998-2010, <span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/key-issues/nuclear-weapons/issues/effects/effects-of-nuclear-weapons.htm]]</span> </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">“Jimmy’s story is…crimes against humanity.” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">Even if harms don’t exist right now, it is inevitable that harm will occur while time passes. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">MATTHEW <span style="font-family: Times;">Rendell</span> [Lecturer in Politics and International Relations, University of Nottingham] “Nuclear Weapons and Intergenerational Exploitation,” Security Studies 16, no. 4 (October–December 2007): 525–554. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal;">“Notably, nuclear deterrence…our own miserable hides.” </span>

==Negative== 

**Asteroids DA**
<span style="font-family: Times;">**Uniqueness:** Nuclear weapons have the capability to deter an asteroid from striking the earth. </span>
Homeland Security Newswire. “Scientist says nuclear weapons best bet for saving Earth from asteroids”

“Scientists argue that…vast amount of power.”

<span style="font-family: Times;">**Link:** The affirmative advocates a world where states ought not posses nuclear weapons, thus states will not have the power to stop an asteroid from striking the earth.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">**Impact:** An asteroid striking the earth will cause human extinction.</span>
Stephen A. Nelson. “Meteorites, Impacts, and Mass Extinction.”

“Again, we as humans…surface waters.” 


<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: justify;">**Japanese Proliferation DA**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: justify;">**Uniqueness:** Japan has no nuclear weapons now; it is under the U.S. nuclear umbrella. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times;">Asiafor Educators “An Overview of Japan’s Postwar Defense Policy” (Jun 30 2010)< </span><span style="color: #0000f5; font-family: Times;">[[http://afe.easia.columbia.edu/japan/japanworkbook/fpdefense/artnine.htm#essay]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">></span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: justify;">“While there has…to Japanese ports.”</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">**Link:** The affirmative world advocates states ought not possess nukes.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times;">**Impact:** If the U.S. disarms, Japan will acquire nuclear weapons.Peter Brookes [Senior Fellow for national security affairs at the Heritage Foundation] “Why the world still needs America’s military might” (Dec, 2008) <</span><span style="color: #0000f5; font-family: Times;">[[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.1927/pub_detail.asp]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">“American military might …__to regional security.”__</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times;">A nuclear Japan triggers an Asian arms raceDr. David Robins [Lecturer at Edith Cowan University] (March 29, 2010) “Why the West should Discourage Japanese Military Expansion” Journal of Asia Pacific Studies </span><span style="color: #0000f5; font-family: Times;">[[http://www.japss.org/upload/10.robinson.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">“Japan’s self-defense force…conflict might develop.”</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: justify;">Asian proliferation will lead to nuclear war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Joseph Cerincione [Director of the Non-Proliferation Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace] Foreign Policy, “The Asian nuclear reaction chain”, Issue 118 (2000).</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">“The blocks would…since 1945.”</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; text-align: justify;">**PALS CP**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">**TEXT: All nuclear weapons will be equipped with Permissive Active Link technology.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Steven M. Bellovin, </span><span style="color: #0000f5; font-family: Times;">[[http://www.cs.columbia.edu/%7Esmb/nsam-160/pal.html|http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~smb/nsam-160/pal.html]]</span><span style="font-family: Times;">, 02 Sep 09, Professor Columbia University, Department of Computer Science.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">“A PAL…Is it?”</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Thus, PAL’s prevent nuclear weapon theft. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Bellovin 2</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">“There are two…knowing the code.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Further, Pals prevent accidental launch. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Bellovin 3</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">“Several different mechanisms…is a risk too.”</span>





=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**It’s Thanksgiving Break AC**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">V: J</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">1. Punishment is designed to impose blame on an agent who freely chooses to violate moral norms.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Punishing someone for something they are not responsible for stigmatizes people and precludes our ability solve the underlying problem.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Alan Leshner, Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47).</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Part of the…and drug users.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">VC: retaining just punishment</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C1: Drug addicts are not responsible for their actions</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Drug addiction is a disease that addicts cannot control. Leshner 2</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">“Addiction is rarely…not a cure.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Drug use induces unintended cravings that remove the will to freely take action.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Hugh Garavan, Ph.D. John Pankiewicz, M.D. Alan Bloom, Ph.D. Jung-Ki Cho, M.D. Lori Sperry, M.A. Thomas J. Ross, Ph.D. Betty Jo Salmeron, M.D. Robert Risinger, M.D. Dan Kelley, B.S. Elliot A. Stein, Ph.D. “Cue-Induced Cocaine Craving: Neuroanatomical Specificity for Drug Users and Drug Stimuli” American Journal of Psychiatry 2000; 157:1789–1798.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">“Based on self-reports…induced cocaine craving.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Drugs create powerful autonomic responses that are uncontrollable by the subject.</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Antoine Bechara [Institute for the Neurological Study of Emotion and Creativity, Department of Psychology, USC] “Decision making, impulse control and loss of willpower to resist drugs: a neurocognitive perspective” November 2005, Nature Neuroscience Vol. 8 No. 11.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Psychological evidence suggests…framework of addition.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C2: Prison’s is overcrowded due to drug laws.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Crime: America's Overcrowded Prisons By </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.time.com/time/letters/email_letter.html|Jill Smolowe; Ann Blackman/Washington, Cathy Booth/Miami, Jon D. Hull/Chicago, Sylvester Monroe/Los Angeles and Lisa H. Towle/Raleigh]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Monday, Feb. 07, 1994</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“The disturbing truth…182% of capacity.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Prison overcrowding leads to rape, and violence in communities.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Stop Prisoner Rape. Submission to the House of Commons Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights. September 2006</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“The U.S. experience…back to their communities.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND, rape is dehumanizing.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jessica E. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Jensen PATRIARCHY</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> AND THE COMFORT WOMEN</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“The rape dehumanized…so many times.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND, just because people are prison, does not mean they are not human.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jordan J. Baylor. “</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Public Accountability for Public Officials”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Prisons release violent offenders to make room for first time drug offenders. Smolowe 2. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“In North Carolina…an average of 35%.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Needle Exchange**</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">V: M</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">VC: Minimizing harm</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Eric Rakowski. “Taking and Saving Lives.” Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), p. 1063-1156. Columbia Law Review Association, Inc. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960|__http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960__]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">“On one side…to do so.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">P1: Harms</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Injection drug users do not have proper and legal injection needles. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bobby Ramakant. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Criminalization of Injecting Drug Users (IDU) Fuels HIV Epidemic. July 18, 2010.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“The criminalization of…compounding the problem.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">In 2008 the CDC reported that 4,000 plus injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and 6,000 with AIDS. Almost 300,000 people have been diagnosed with AIDS from injection drug use; 100,000 of these people have died.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">80% of all AIDS infections in the US are a result of sharing contaminated needles.</span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Gafni et. al, ’97</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> (August, PhD from McMaster University, Canadian Journal of Public Health)</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">“AIDS is a…reduce transmission.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">P2: Plan</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 150%; text-align: justify;">The United States Federal Government will provide the federal funds needed to establish needle exchange programs throughout the country and legalize drug paraphernalia. These facilities will distribute clean needles to drug users in exchange for their dirty and unclean needles. The needles will be exchanged on a one-to-one ratio. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">The plan is textual because needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">“The evolution of…sterile injecting equipment.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">P3: Solvency</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Needle exchange programs have effectively reduced the incidence of HIV/AIDS.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">“The above findings…distribution of supplies.”</span>

<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 10pt;">Negative consequences are empirically denied.</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Woodak and Conney 2</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">“Studies have searched…to IDU.”</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">And, needle exchange programs have tremendous cost-saving capabilities. Gafini et. al 2</span></span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">“In our analysis…$40 billion.”</span></span>











==Negative== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**Imma Buy you a Drank NC** </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">V: J </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">VC: Maintaining the rights of society and the victim </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Criminals victimize the community at large by placing themselves above the law. </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], “Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“We tend by…as he wishers.” </span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;">Punishment vindicates the rights of the victim and communicates a moral message to society. Garvey 2 </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Punishment is an a priori moral truth. That means that all persons in this room agree that there are certain things that are moral wrong. In order for debate to be possible, we must recognize common ground by which we can determine right from wrong. </span>

I contend that only the negative can achieve retributive justice against those who use illegal drugs to abuse other people. 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Rohypnol and GHB are illegal drugs that emerged in the last twenty years and are used mainly for the purpose of date rape. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">American Council for Drug Education [Phoenix House is a nonprofit drug and alcohol rehabilitation organization with 120 programs in ten states, serving more than 7,000 men, women and adolescents each day. Phoenix House is committed to serving individuals, families, and communities, affected by substance abuse and dependency. Phoenix House was also established in the UK as an entirely separate organization, though has its origins in the US-based Phoenix House described above. Phoenix House (UK) runs a number of residential rehabilitation units, structured day programs and is the largest not for profit provider of prison based substance misuse programs in the UK] </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Both GHB and Rohypnol…are still and issue.” </span>

Using these drugs for rape is an abuse of the drugs according to my definition because they are misusing the drugs by harming other people. 

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Failure to punish rapists is dehumynization to the victims. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jessica E. </span>Jensen<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> PATRIARCHY AND THE COMFORT WOMEN </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“The rape dehumanized…so many times.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the affirmative world these drugs will either be on the market for sale because of legalization or drugs will be decriminalized and people that wish to use them will have easy access to the drugs. This essentially means that the government condones tools that are used primarily for rape. </span>



<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**Drug Courts CP** </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">Text: Abusers of illegal drugs will be tried in drug courts. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">The net benefit is that drug courts are effective in reducing crime, and arrests. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-weight: normal;">West Huddleston, III Douglas B. Marlowe, J.D., Ph.D. Rachel Casebolt </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Painting the Current Picture: A National Report Card on Drug Courts and Other Problem-Solving Court Programs in the United States, </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">May 2008, </span><span style="color: #000099;">[[http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/pdf/12902_PCP_fnl.pdf]] </span></span>

<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">“In February of 2005…time of arrest.”</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The counter plan is competitive because drug courts use criminal justice.</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/pdf/12902_PCP_fnl.pdf|Redonna K. Chandler, PhD,1 Bennett W. Fletcher, PhD,1 and Nora D. Volkow, MD2, Journal of the American Medical association. “Treating Drug Abuse and Addiction in the Criminal Justice System: Improving Public Health and Safety”, 1Services Research Branch, National Institute on Drug Abuse, ]]</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2681083/]] JAMA. 2009; 301: 183-190.</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">“Research over the…remain in treatment.”</span>










=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
PLAN TEXT 1: My thesis is that juveniles and adults ought to be treated similarly in a criminal justice system that is focused on the rehabilitation of criminals. Mark Lipsey defines rehabilitation to help clarify the 1AC thesis, he writes,
THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CORRECTIONAL REHABILITATION: A REVIEW OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS Mark W. Lipsey1 and Francis T. Cullen2 1 Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37212; email: [[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu]] 2 Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45226-0389; email: [[mailto:cullenft@email.uc.edu|cullenft@email.uc.edu]] Annual Review of Law and Social Science, volume 3, 2007

PLAN TEXT 2: The Supreme Court of the United States of America should grant a writ of certiorari1 to the next available test case and then overturn its 2005 decision in Roper v. Simmons.
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]