[[toc]]
Email: [[mailto:angelafan94@gmail.com|angelafan94@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 

==Turkey TNW Aff- Harvard== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">contention one is propping up precrime:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">despite obama’s promises, tactical nuclear weapons are being stockpiled in turkey to extend us security threats to iran.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">tomaskovic devey 10</span>** (ma in public policy and administration at umass-amherst, “a step closer to a world without nuclear weapons”, cosmopolitica review 2.1)
<span class="DebateUnderline">Although nuclear disarmament...</span>“Be careful what you wish for ...”

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">the united states tactical nuclear weapons deployed in turkey are a legacy of the cold war in search of a new mission of preemption- iran is now the target for nuclear warfighting </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">greenpeace, 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-variant: normal !important; font-weight: normal;"> (“securing our safety, ensuring our survival- why us nato nuclear weapons in Europe must go”, www.greenpeace.org/raw/content/international/press/reports/securing-our-safety.pdf, 14-18)</span></span></span>
Nuclear sharing is irresponsible...patently absurd.


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">tactical nuclear weapons are being retargeted against states like iran to shift nuclear policy from deterrence to preemption- this makes offensive nuclear war inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**chossudovsky, 06** </span>(professor of economics at the university of Ottawa, “is the bush administration planning a nuclear holocaust? will the US launch mini nukes against iran in retaliation for tehran’s non-compliance?” global research, www. globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=2032)
At no point since ...<span class="DebateUnderline"> community" is a understatement. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">the logic of preemption makes biopolitical control of all life inevitable- freedom will be eliminated in a state of absolute war. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Irving Goh, Fellow at Harvard, 2006</span>** (“Disagreeing Preempetive Prophylaxis: From Phillip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere”, Fast Capitalism 2.1, www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html)
Wait At present, <span class="DebateUnderline">the ...</span> victim as a terror suspect.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">the logic of preemption and the constant need for deterrence breeds perpetual apocalypse </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**by actualizing potential threats**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **Brian Massumi ‘7** (Prof of Comm at U of Montreal, “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption”, Theory & Event 10:2/)</span>
It is certain that there ...<span class="DebateUnderline">tendency to be never-ending.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">our desire to act to solve is the source of the problem itself – trying to make sense of the actions of others oversimplifies events and international actors</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">der derian 05</span>** <span style="font-weight: normal;">– Director of the Global Security Program and Research Professor of International Studies at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University ( Predicting the President, http://hir.harvard.edu/articles/1430/)</span>
It often takes ... war by other means.”


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This war on uncertainty prevents an affirmation of life and fuels genocide</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Seem 83**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (</span></span>Prof @ U of Minn, Introduction of the 1983 printing of Anti-Oedipus; Anti-Oedipus p xvi-xvii)
In confronting and finally ... relationship with the outside world.”

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">preemptive logic normalizes knowledge production about the unknown, requiring the</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">elimination of all potential threats- that guarantees extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">hoffman, 7 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(</span>international development studies at Roskilde University, Militarized Bodies and Spirits of Resistance, diggy.ruc.dk:8080/handle/1800/2766)
In modern forms of government, ...<span class="DebateUnderline">of modern processes of government.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">plan is an essential switch from short-term fixes to iran like nuclear threats to long term diplomacy that is key to solve decisively</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**parsi & marashi ’10** (Trita Parsi is president of the National Iranian American Council. Reza Marashi is director of research at the National Iranian American Council and a former Iran desk officer at the U.S. State Department, “Want to Defuse the Iran Crisis?” 11/12/10 Foreign Policy, <http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/12/want_to_defuse_the_iran_crisis?page=0,0>)</span>
Obama shouldn't kid himself...<span class="DebateUnderline"> in Tehran or in Washington.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">text: the united states federal government should remove all of the united states federal government’s tactical nuclear weapons presence from turkey.</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">contention two is time for a minority report:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">we are all enmeshed in a web of power relations, some of which we cannot recognize. forms of politics centered on the idea of shared precariousness challenges the frames of war that force us to normatively script our identity and agency.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Judith Butler ‘9,</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> Prof of Rhetoric @ Cal, Frames of War, p 26-36)</span>
This book considers the...<span class="DebateUnderline">coldness to the loss of others.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">norms are dependent on context- disregarding their iterability is a sovereign act that justifies unconditional violence against the other in the name of security</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(rasch ‘4,</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> William, Prof of Germanic Studies – Indiana, //Sovereignty and its Discontents// p. 3-4)</span>
Now, if the triumph of a ...<span class="DebateUnderline"> deliberately and maliciously disturbed.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Vote affirmative to validate a minority report against pre-emptive violence- preemption is bad if it’s wrong even once. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Weber ‘7**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> (Cynthia, Prof of IR at Lancaster, The Logics of Biopower and the War on Terror: Living, Dying, Surviving, p 124-6//shree)</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">Minority Report draws a devastating ... characters – by containing them in a hegemonic logic of home.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">challenging tactical nuclear weapons spills over to broader action against nuclear violence- it will set the disarmament framework for future nuclear policies </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">KELLEHER & WARREN 2009, </span>**professor of public policy at the university of Maryland and executive director of generation citizen, (“getting to zero starts here: tactical nuclear weapons”, www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_10/kelleher)
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> A critical debate on ...<span class="DebateUnderline"> emblematic of those in the larger arms control debate.</span></span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">status quo secrecy prevents individuals from engaging larger nuclear policies because they are inherently unknown- renders all decisionmaking unsound.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Taylor, 07 </span>**(Bryan C., assoc. prof. of Comm @ U of Colorado Boulder,“The Means to Match their Hatred”: Nuclear Weapons, Rhetorical Democracy, and Presidential Discourse”, Presidential Studies Quarterly 37, no. 4, December) 
To varying degrees, these ...as a familiar and legitimate icon.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">focus on the details of policy implementation causes passive politics- that divorces our own self from policy implementation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Van Oenen ‘6****<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;"> (</span>**</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Theory and Event 9:2, Erasmus U.; A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political Life)</span>**
The observations by Pfaller and Zizek... <span class="DebateUnderline">the people involved in the activities that constitute these domains</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ethical criticism shouldn't be used as an invasion for political action- ethics requires that we make decisions in the political world to put our infinite obligation into action- psych criticisms are just an attempt to evade the responsibility of the political, meister 5</span>**</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">(Robert, dept. of ptx, uc santa cruz, “</span>"Never Again": The Ethics of the Neighbor and the Logic of Genocide” in pmc 15.2)
__Humanitarian ethics after Auschwitz reflects a cultural tendency to respond to all agony (whether moral or not) as though it were psychological trauma that...__committed face-to-face.

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">our grassroots challenge to state logic is effective and politically useful as a tool for raising consciousness for activism, this approach has historically been successful challenging us security assumption, marsh 95</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Pearl-Alice, “Grassroots Statecraft and Citizens' Challenges to U.S. National Security Policy,” in On Security, R. Lipschutz, ed. http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz15.html, gratis ben hamburger)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The basic proposition I ...could do in the short run.</span>


==Turkey TNW Aff- Scranton== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">contention 1 is inherency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The united states has 90 b61 bombs in Turkey now, with no projected plans for removal</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Global Research, 5/11/10,** [Center for Research on Globalization, “Washington Threatens Iran: 90 nukes to remain on Iran’s border”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=18602]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The US has... on the issue so far.  </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, The number of TNWs in turkey is projected to increase</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Richard Weitz,** Ph.D, is the Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis, the Hudson Institute, April 12, 2010</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> As part of ... reasons described above.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">thus the plan:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the united states federal government should remove all of the united state federal government’s b61 bombs from turkey.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">we’ll clarify. </span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention two is the nuclear weapon free zone:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Presence of US weapons in Turkey has increased iranian proliferation </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**kibaroglu 10,** Teacher at Department of International Relations at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey, Fellow at Harvard University, Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of Internation Studies, International Atomic Energy Agency, and United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, June 10, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, Arms Control Association,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#25]]</span>])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There is a ... ambitious nuclear capabilities. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iran proliferation spills over to Middle Eastern Proliferation </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Mustafa Kibaroglu,** Teacher at Department of International Relations at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey, Fellow at Harvard University, Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of Internation Studies, International Atomic Energy Agency, and United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, December 2005, (“Isn’t it Time to Say Farewell to Nukes in Turkey?”, European Security, Vol. 14 No. 4 pgs. 443 – 457,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://mustafakibaroglu.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu-EuropeanSecurity-USnukesTurkey-December2005.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> However, the tide is...formally acknowledged).</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Israeli perception of growing Iranian power from proliferation leads to preemptive strikes- Israel fears Ahmadinejad and the rise of iran as a regional power</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Christian science monitor, 8/13/10,** [“three reasons why Israel would attack iran”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Middle-East/2010/0813/3-Reasons-Israel-will-attack-Iran/Holocaust-denial-and-Holocaust-fears]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. Holocaust denial ... in the hands of some terrorist group."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Israeli Strikes on Iran would lead to Global Nuclear War </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Gil Ronen, Staff Writer, 04/13/10,** (“Medvedev: Israel Strike on Iran Could Mean Nuclear War, Refugees”, Arutz Shreva,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.israelnationalnews.com/News/news.aspx/136993]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Meanwhile, ... Many deaths.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Now is a critical time for turkey to exercise leadership --- that solves Iranian acquisition of nuclear weapons </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**alon Ben Meir, 9/8/10** [professor of IR NYU, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/alon-benmeir/can-turkey-defuse-irans-n_b_709585.html|Can Turkey Defuse Iran's Nuclear Challenge?]]</span>”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/alon-benmeir/can-turkey-defuse-irans-n_b_709585.html]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Now is the time ...between East and West.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Turkey will only proliferate if Iran goes nuclear—plan solves </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Mustafa Kibaroglu**, Professor and Vice Chair, International Relations Dept., Bilkent University, Turkey, December 20, 2004, “Iran's Nuclear Program May Trigger the Young Turks to Think Nuclear,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/920/irans_nuclear_program_may_trigger_the_young_turks_to_think_nuclear.html?breadcrumb=%2Fexperts%2F1367%2Fmustafa_kibaroglu]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Developing nuclear weapons...Turks to think nuclear seriously.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Removing TNW’s bolsters Turkish mediation efforts --- key to non proliferation </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**mustafa Kibaroglu, 6/10** [professor Bilkent University in turkey, held a fellowship at Harvard, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#25|__http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#25__]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In addition to ... an exception to this rule.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the plan sends a signal that leads to a nuclear weapons free zone in the Middle East- that solves israeli strikes </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**mustafa Kibaroglu, 10** [professor Bilkent University In turkey, held a fellowship at Harvard, “Turkey and Shared Responsibilities”, “Shared Responsibilities for Nuclear Disarmament: A Global Debate”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.amacad.org/pdfs/saganInside.pdf|__http://www.amacad.org/pdfs/saganInside.pdf__]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> At the same time,...disarmament cannot succeed.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">only turkey’s actions in the middle east can guarantee peace</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**john Feffer, 6/14/10** [co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Stealth Superpower: How Turkey Is Chasing China to Become the Next Big Thing”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/06/14-0]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mediation Central A friend ... one day brokering peace in the Middle East.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">turkey has the ability to mediate and influence regional politics- that’s key to middle east stability </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**john Feffer, 10** [co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Stealth Superpower: How Turkey Is Chasing China to Become the Next Big Thing”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/06/14-0]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But take population o..., the world will shake.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Middle East Instability leads to global nuclear war </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**stephen Morgan,** Political Writer, 9/3/07</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (Political Writer and Former Member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.freearticlesarchive.com/article/_Better_another_Taliban_Afghanistanthan_a_Taliban_NUCLEAR_Pakistan_/99961/0/]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> However events may ... the US</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention three is russia spillover:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Current US-Russia relations are uncertain despite reset //[note we update this card every tournament, they usually are all similar]//</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Washington post, 6/24/10** [“opinions vary on the state of us-russia relations”, josh rogin, foreign policy specialist, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/23/AR2010062305264.html]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The U.S.-Russia... difficult?" Gati said.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">TNWs are perceived as an aggressive nuclear posture- this dooms further improvement of relations</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**hans Kristensen,** FAS Nuclear Information Project director, 02/05 [Federation of American Scientists, former Natural Resources Defense Council Nuclear Program consultant, former Nautilus Institute Nuclear Strategy Project director, former Danish Ministry of defense special adviser, former Greenpeace International Nuclear Information Unit senior researcher, “U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Europe A Review of Post-Cold War Policy, Force Levels, and War Planning”, Natural Resources Defense Council, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nrdc.org/nuclear/euro/euro.pdf|__http://www.nrdc.org/nuclear/euro/euro.pdf__]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Bush administration ... weapons allegedly contribute to NATO’s security interests.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Recent policies have set the stage for TNW reduction talks- now is the key time</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Natalya Kovalenko, 5/19/10,** [The Voice of Russia, “Will US tactical nukes remain in Europe?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/05/19/8101005.html]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> After the Russian ...Moscow without any preconditions. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">START only magnifies Russia’s threat perceptions – as the number of strategic nuclear weapons decreases the likelihood of tnw use increases, risking miscalc and escalation</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**David Wood, ‘9**  [Columnist for Politics Daily, “Tactical Nuclear Weapons, the Menace No One Is Talking About,” 7/8, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.politicsdaily.com/2009/07/08/tactical-nuclear-weapons-the-menace-no-one-is-talking-about/|http://www.politicsdaily.com/ 2009/07/08/tactical-nuclear- weapons-the-menace-no-one-is- talking-about/]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Almost nothing is ... matter to strategists.''</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">good relations prevent a us-russia war that would go nuclear</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Dr. Andreas Umland,** teaches at the Catholic University of Eichstaett-Ingolstadt, Upper Bavaria, 2/19/09, “NATO-Russia War: A Scenario,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/nato-russia-war-scenario]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Such a scenario ... nuclear super-powers.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">TNWs are the most likely weapon Russia will use in a nuclear war due to miscalculation- uniquely increases the risk of escalation and the probability for a russia-nato standoff </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Simon Saradzhyan,** research fellow at Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center, 8/10/09, (“Tactical Nukes: A Strategic Asset or Future Liability?”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Current-Affairs/Security-Watch/Detail/?ots591=4888CAA0-B3DB-1461-98B9-E20E7B9C13D4&lng=en&id=103631]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Substantial risks However, ... or non-state actors.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **A US-Russia nuclear war would cause extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Nick bostrom,** PhD and Professor at Oxford, Recipient of the Gannon Award, March 2002, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A much greater ...potential permanently.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Only US engagement towards Russia solves Russian aggression </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Pierre Hassner,** Research Director Emeritus at the Centre D’Etudes et de Recherches Internationales in Paris</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> and a Contributing Editor to Survival, “All Shook Up?”, Survival Magazine, 7/21/10)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But the most surprising ... a military base in Abkhazia.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **plan is a prerequisite to getting Russia to also reduce its Nuclear arsenal**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **Johan Bergenas,** research associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center, Washington DC, and Miles Pomper, senior research associate of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, 4/5/10 (“No more Cold War Thinking”, The Guardian, www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2010/apr/05/cold-war-thinking-nuclear)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moscow's position ...nuclear weapons stockpiles</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">only unilateral US withdrawal of TNWs resolves the stalemate and secures russian reciprocation</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Miles Pomper, William Potter and Nikolai Sokov ‘09** [MA, editor of Arms Control Today @ ACA, Ph.D., is senior research associate at James Martin Center for Non-proliferation Studies at Monterey Institute of International Studies, Ph.D., is Institute Professor and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS) “Breaking the U.S.-Russian deadlock on nonstrategic nuclear weapons,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/breaking-the-us-russian-deadlock-nonstrategic-nuclear-weapons|__http://thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/breaking-the-us-russian-deadlock-nonstrategic-nuclear-weapons__]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> For many years ... nuclear-weapon-free world.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">contention four is solvency:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan solves potential Allied backlash through Unilateral withdrawal of TNWs </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Nikolai Sokov 2009** [Ph.D., is senior research associate at James Martin Center for Non-proliferation Studies at Monterey Institute of International Studies, 2009, (Tactical Nuclear Weapons, German Leadership 6, Issue 4<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/090717_german_leadership/german_leadership_6_issue_4.pdf|__http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/090717_german_leadership/german_leadership_6_issue_4.pdf__]]</span>)]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> However, these ... tell the children.27</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B61 bombs are useless- Turkey will rely on NATO and nuclear umbrella for protection </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Alexandra Bell and Benjamin Loehrke,** Staff Writers, Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, 11/23/09, (“The Status of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, The Bulletin, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> For more than... forces supporting its nuclear umbrella.</span>

==2AC== 
Disclosure upon request

===Obama Good=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Winners win- passing the plan will generate more polcap for Obama to use to pass < > </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Singer 9</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Jonathan, My Direct Democracy, “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital”, 3-3-9, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]]</span>)</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan doesn’t require Congressional action</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bailey et al '07</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kathleen C. Bailey, et al Senior Associate at the National Institute for Public Policy, White Paper On The Necessity of the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent Updated, August 15, 2007, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nipp.org/Publication/Downloads/Publication%20Archive%20PDF/Deterrence%20Paper%20-%20version%202.pdf]]</span> </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nuclear missile withdrawal is bipartisan</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**(Thomas Withington**, Research Associate at the Centre for Defence Studies, King's College, London and an Associate Member of the Royal Aeronautical Society France, August 13, 2008, “The tactical nuclear weapons game,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Current-Affairs/Security-Watch/Detail/?ots591=4888CAA0-B3DB-1461-98B9-E20E7B9C13D4&lng=en&id=89456]]</span>)</span></span>

===START=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iran outweighs START – Russia is no longer a threat and the treaty solves nothing</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 12pt;">**(Kim R. Holmes**, Ph.D. Vice President, Foreign and Defense Policy Studies, and Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, 7/21/10 “A Better Way to Arms Control” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/07/A-Better-Way-to-Arms-Control]]</span>) </span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-bottom: 12pt;">Negative</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Security</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; line-height: 27px;">A. The affirmative is an attempt to impose reason and static identity on the violent world around them – this fearful security discourse is self-sustaining and necessarily achieved by the destruction of difference. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; line-height: 27px;"> **Posen 2003** [Barry Command of the Commons: The Military Foundation of U.S. Hegemony, International Security - Volume 28, Number 1, Summer 2003, pp. 5-46]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; line-height: 27px;"> **B. The construction of the other as violent threat is vital to the existence of sovereign communities: the sovereign call for security as a solution to violence is a self-fulfilling prophecy that cements control over the body and legitimizes mass death and torture as mundane political instruments. [Patricia Molloy 99**, Ph.D. at the University of Toronto, “Face to Face With the Dead Man,” Moral Spaces, 1999, pp 228-229]</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; line-height: 27px;">C. Critique itself is an effective alternative—since power can only operate through structures of knowledge, exposing the foundations of systems of control disrupts them </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"> [<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; line-height: 27px;">**Li , 2007****,** professor of anthropology and senior cananda research chair in political economy and culture in Asia-Pacific at the Univ of Toronto. Tania Murray, The Will to Improve, pp. 22-26]</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; line-height: 27px;">Disads</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; line-height: 27px;">Heg</span>=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="line-height: 19px;">heg is high now- Obama’s foreign policy aimed towards maintaining US leadership globally</span>**
<span style="line-height: 19px;">**Kagan 2010** (Robert, Carnegie Endowment FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE “Obama's 5 Foreign-Policy Victories” THE WASHINGTON POST, JUNE 29, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41072]]) All administrations have ups and … a number of things right.</span>


**<span style="line-height: 19px;">Maintaining foreign deployment is key to US hegemony</span>**
<span style="line-height: 19px;">**Michael A. Allen,** Department of Political Science Binghamton University (SUNY), "Deploying Military Bases Overseas: An Emprical Assessment", 6/6/10, [[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/3/1/3/6/9/p313697_index.html]] The analysis within the Harkavy … with other states more credible.</span>


**<span style="line-height: 19px;">Sustained unipolar hegemony prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict.</span>**
<span style="line-height: 19px;">**Kagan 2007** [Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Hoover Institution - Stanford U, in Policy Review, No 144,[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]] Finally, there is the United States …will provide an easier path.</span></span>

===North Korea Deterrence=== 
**North korea wants the US to ease its presence – we need to remain committed**
**Carafano 11/24** (James, is a Senior Fellow at the Heritage Foundation, Deputy Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, “Obama Policies Encouraging North Korea,” November 24, 2010 accessed 12/9/10 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/11/Obamas-Policies-Encouraging-North-Korea]]</span>)
North Korea probably wants what… couple of hundred artillery rounds.

**Troop presence underscores our credibility in the region – withdrawal would embolden north korea**
**Hadar 12/1** (Leon T., Research Fellow at the CATO Institute, “North Korea: Not America’s Problem,” December 1, 2010 accessed: 12/5/10 Lexis <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www6.lexisnexis.com/publisher/EndUser?Action=UserDisplayFullDocument&orgId=574&topicId=100019317&docId=l:1314018439&start=13]]</span>)
In fact, these two most … country is still in place.

**Credibility is key – uncertainty leads to japanese militarization, china and korea conflict, it also spills over to india and pakistan**
**Goh08** (Evelyn, Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford , International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database)
The centrality of these mutual … appear to be much worse.

**That pressures japan to go nuclear – shows lack of US credibility, leads to arms race and collapse of the NPT**
**Emma Chanlette Avery,** Specialist in Asian Affairs, Mary Beth Nikitin, Analyst of Non-proliferation, 09, (“Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects and US Interests” Published Febuary 19 Available online at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span> )
Today, Japanese officials and experts …Asia Pacific region and beyond.

**Asian arms races escalate to nuclear conflict**
**Cimbala ‘8** (Distinguished professor of political science Stephen J.-, March, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, Vol. 27 #2, Informaworld)
The spread of nuclear weapons … marginalization of major interstate warfare.

==Counterplans== 
===Coin-Lite=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should reduce the amount of ground troops engaged in population centric counterinsurgency presence and cia activities to 15,000 in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. the united states federal government should adopt a COIN-lite strategy for the remaining ground troops engaged in population centeric counterinsurgency presence activities in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
**a coin-lite strategy solves their advantages- smart coin strat provides intel, wins hearts and minds, and solves overstretch. withdrawal only leads to more instability in afghanistan- turns case.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**jim Lobe**, chief of washington interpress service 09 < <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=49007]]</span>>Amid growing speculation and partisan … Marines to clear new areas."</span></span>
**withdrawal would lead to taliabn takeover- increases the risks of terrorism and instability**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**stephen Biddle** Senior Fellow for Defense Policy, 09 (“Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan”
Http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617)
The Taliban’s weaknesses make - into al-Qaeda’s hands in Pakistan</span>