[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">The affirmative should not be held to defend disarmament because the resolution asks if a state of affairs is desirable</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">VP: Morality</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Utilitarianism is the only moral theory that can guide governments.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Gary Woller (Professor of Public Management, Brigham Young University). “A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics in Restructuring Environmental Policy and Law for the Next Century.” Policy Currents 7.2 (June 1997): p. 10-11.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“Moreover, virtually all public policies… basis for public policy in a democracy.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">VC: Max. HR (prioritize life before other rights)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**One: Terrorists**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Nations will give terrorists nuclear weapons</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Krieger, David. What Happens If...? Terrorists, Revolutionaries, and Nuclear Weapons; Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 430, Nuclear Proliferation: Prospects, Problems, and Proposals (Mar., 1977), pp. 44-57; Research political scientist, former Director of the IR Center at San Francisco State University.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“We can imagine… result in international war.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Theft is relatively easy</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Wilson, Valerine. “A world without nuclear weapons; Ex CIA agent Valerine Plame Wilson says we need to make it real”; NY daily news; former CIA agent, specializing in nuclear counter proliferation.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“We know that terrorist groups… ensure that terrorists do not get the bomb.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Impact: Ira Helfand, MD (Chief of Emergency Medical Section of Cooley Dickinson Hospital in MA), Lachlan Forrow, MD (Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard University), Jaya Tiwari (Research Director at Center for Global Health and Security), Projected Casualties From a Terrorist Nuclear Explosion in a Large Urban Area, Clinical Medicine and Health Research, January 11, 2002.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“A 12.5 kiloton nuclear explosion… mechanical and thermal injuries.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Two: Irrational leaders**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">James Stegenga, Nuclear Deterrence: Bankrupt Ideology, Policy Sciences, Vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 127-145, 1983.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“According to the ideology of nuclear deterrence… generally erodes rationality.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Three: Accidents**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Warning errors</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Bruce Berkowitz, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, March 1985.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“The sheer magnitude… mass firing of weapons.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Empirical examples of almost-accidents</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">John Leslie, “The End of the World: The Science and Ethics of Human Extinction,” Routledge, April 1996.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“Nuclear training exercises can be… where it was programmed to explode.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">2 reasons why accidents are likely</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Scott Sagan, “The Perils of Proliferation; Organizational Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons.” International Security, Spring 1994.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“Emergent nuclear powers lack… while sitting on the workbench.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“The opaque nature of nuclear proliferation… will inhibit safety design efforts.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Impact for 2/3: Morton Mintz, Two Minutes to Launch, The American Prospect, February 2001.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“The bitter disputes over national… a nuclear war by checklist, by rote.”</span>

==Negative== 


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">VP: M</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">VC: Preventing war</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Waltz, Kenneth. Nuclear Myths and Political Realities The American Political Science Review, Vol. 84, No. 3, pp. 731-745, September 1990.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“The catastrophe promised by nuclear war… disappears in a nuclear one.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Richard Garfield “The Epidemiology of War,” Richard Garfield “The Epidemiology of War”, p. 24 “War and Public Health,” by Barry Levy and Victor Sidel 2007</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">“The Uppsala Conflict Data Project… may exceed 500,000 per year.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Forsberg, Parallel Cuts in Nuclear and Conventional Forces, Randall Forsberg, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, August 1985, Chicago, Educational Foundation for Nuclear Science.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">"The risk of conventional... escalation of crises."</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]