[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Guantanamo Bay AC=== 
V - Morality
VC - Protecting the welfare of Americans
First, Ethics must guide action. Carlson writes:
Erik Carlson. “DELIBERATION, FOREKNOWLEDGE, AND MORALITY AS A GUIDE TO ACTION.” Erkenntnis 57: 71–89, 2002. (Netherlands)

Without the requirement..........price to pay

Second, states necessarily must use consequentian ethics. Goodin writes:
Robert Goodin. Fellow of philosophy at Australian National University, 1990 (The Utilitarian Response)

Whatever its shortcomings..........highly attractive proposition

Plan Text: The USFG will try all juveniles that have been charged with war crimes or federal terrorism charges in federal criminal court. I reserve the right for clarification.

C1 - Due Process
First, The US holds many juvenile detainees in the war on terror – they are tried in military tribunals.
Al-Ahram Weekly Online International Eddition (Cairo News Paper) June 2008 http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2008/901/in3.htm

A new report by the.............Western nation remaining in Guantanamo

Moreover, the tribunals are unconstitutional – they deny the detainees important due process rights
LT. COL. DARRELL VANDEVELD “Legal issues surrounding the military commissions system.” Hearing before the subcommittee on the constitution, civil rights, and civil liberties of the committee on the judiciary House of Representatives. One hundred eleventh Congress first session. July 8, 2009

Most importantly for the purposes of...........a detainee now held in Guantanamo

C2 - Separation of Powers
Military tribunals violate separation of powers- prevent the judiciary from checking the executive
Chad DeVeaux- LL.M, Harvard University; J.D., University of Note Dame- 2009, ARTICLE: RATIONALIZING THE CONSTITUTION: THE MILITARY COMMISSIONS ACT AND THE DUBIOUS LEGACY OF EX PARTE QUIRIN, 42 Akron L. Rev. 13, lexisnexis

The Supreme Court struck down..............Congress cannot divest it

Failure to check executive power risks nuclear extinction
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Adler, 96 (David, professor of political science at Idaho State, The Constitution and Conduct of American Foreign Policy, p. 23-25)</span>

The devastating, incomprehensible............and their representatives in Congress

C3 - Soft Power
US refusal to grant due process rights to detainees damages our soft power
Coleman Wagner- 2009, Soft Power and International Public Opinion: U.S Presidents and the Treatment of Prisoners of War, http://web3.unt.edu/honors/eaglefeather/wp-content/2009/08/Wagner_Coleman.pdf
President Bush also expanded..........unilateralism in a multilateral war on terrorism

And soft power is key to coalition building – it is critical to hegemony and to solving terrorism
James Steinberg, Dean of the Lyndon Johnson School of Public Affairs at Texas Austin, “Real Leaders Do Soft Power: Learning the Lessons of Iraq,” Washington Quarterly, Spring, 2008

To secure international support............tackling terrorist cells globally

AND, Terrorism is high now
Deutsche Presse; Threat of terrorist attack in US high, Napolitano says; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.monstersandcritics.com/news/usa/news/article_1618260.php/Threat-of-terrorist-attack-in-US-high-Napolitano-says]]</span>;
February 10, 2011






The threat of a terrorist.............charges have been US citizens

Failure to prevent terrorism risks nuclear extinction
Sid-Ahmed ‘4
(Mohamed-, Al Ahram weekly, “Extinction!”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span>)

We have reached a point.............we will all be losers

AND Soft power is key to US hegemony
Joseph Nye, Distinguished Professor at Harvard and Former Dean of the Kennedy School of Government, “Recovering American Leadership,” Survival, March 2008

Those who recommend.......their American counterparts

AND, hegemony is low now, any risk needs to be avoided
Gideon Rachman; Think Again: American Decline; <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/01/02/think_again_american_decline]]</span>; January 2011

For now, as things stand..............will become China's backyard

And, collapse of hegemony risks multiple nuclear wars
Niall Fergusen, Professor of History at New York University, Foreign Policy, July / August 2004

For more than two decades.............not-so-new world disorder

Finally, Juvenile detainees should be tried in federal criminal courts – this is key to both the rule of law and to promote US soft power
ACLU 4/27/10
http://www.aclu.org/national-security/discredited-military-commissions-resume-despite-persistent-flaws

If Khadr's trial goes..................world as illegitimate
=== === 

===Unified Court AC=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V - Morality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">VC - Consequentialism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First the. State the state controls the criminal justice system - The government is forced to resolve conflicts in protecting rights. Utilitarianism is the only to do so:</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">John Hasnas [associate professor of business at Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business, visiting associate professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center, J.D. and Ph.D. in Legal Philosophy from Duke University]. "From cannibalism to caesareans: two conceptions of fundamental rights." Nortwestern University Law Review 89 (1995): 900</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But consider now that…….standard operating procedure.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, rationality requires evaluation of consequences</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cummiskey, David. Kantian Consequentialism. 1990 Ethics Vol. 100, No. 3 (Apr., 1990), pp. 586-615 Published by: The University of Chicago Press</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We have a duty………some to save many.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan Text: All criminal justice systems in the US, prosecution of juveniles accused of violent felonies in the juvenile court should be abolished and a unified court for trying all people accused of violent felonies should be created without regard for age. I reserve the right to clarify.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1: Due process concerns</span>**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, the Juvenile system is incapable of affording juveniles due process rights in their trials – the system must be abolished entirely</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Janet Ainsworth, Professor of Law at Seattle University, September 1995</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (lexis: 36 B.C. L. Rev 927) Boston College Law Review</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The unhappy truth is….unified criminal justice system.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Specifically denial of trial by jury denies juveniles a basic constitutional right</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kropf, Sara E. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/|Georgetown Law Journal]]</span>, ; Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/is_199906/ai_n8866565/pg_19/?tag=content;col1]]</span> ; June 1999 It is well settled in American………much of the Guidelines’ focus. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, Respecting the Constitution is critical to human survival – looking to any other framework justifies the human suffering destroys the agency of any individual. Henkin, 88, Professor of Law at Columbia (Louis, Atlantic Community Qtly, Spring) Lawyers, even constitutional lawyers,………policy itself as the end. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, The negatives arguments about the failure of the adult criminal just system do not link – a unified court completely reforms the criminal justice system Ainsworth [2] The emotional heart of the…..touches, regardless of age. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Two: Essentialism </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Separate juvenile justice system is predicated on an essentialist view of the child that obviates all other elements of identity Ainsworth [3] The continued existence…..with the young. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the adult/child binary inherent in juvenile court retrenches all modernist binaries Ainsworth [4] As I have shown, the essentialist ideology……primary, privileged term. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Third, Essentialist identity construction and binaries are what make otherization possible Steven Talbot – Defense Science and Technology Organization 98 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.socresaonline.org.uk/13/1/17.html]]</span> 4.5 Within a sociological context……..whose advantage it is’ (Schulte-Tenckhoff, 2001, p.11). </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, Otherization makes infinite violence against the other possible – it is the root cause of all acts of violence Chernus, 91. Ira (PROFESSOR OF RELIGIOUS STUDIES UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO AT BOULDER), Nuclear Madness: Religion and the Psychology of the Nuclear Age p 21-22 The schizoid's insecurity is further….. we want to do to them. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, Unified court is critical to overcome essentialism within the legal system Ainsworth [5] The problems with the current juvenile justice system…….it with a nuanced continuum. </span>


===Massachusetts AC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O1 - Framework</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> V - Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> VC - Consequentialism</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First the. State the state controls the criminal justice system - The government is forced to resolve conflicts in protecting rights. Utilitarianism is the only to do so:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> John Hasnas [associate professor of business at Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business, visiting associate professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center, J.D. and Ph.D. in Legal Philosophy from Duke University]. "From cannibalism to caesareans: two conceptions of fundamental rights." Nortwestern University Law Review 89 (1995): 900</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But consider now that…….standard operating procedure.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, Specifically the goal of the criminal justice system is prevention of crime through deterrence</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mathew Haist – JD Northwestern – 09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology - <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.law.northwestern.edu/jclc/backissues/v99/n3/9903_789.Haist.pdf]]</span> Utilitarian theories of criminal punishment……..criminals or rehabilitate. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan Text: The criminal justice systems in the United States should adopt the Massachusetts model of trying juveniles as adults. Specifically that juveniles charged with first and second degree murder should automatically be treated as adults via legislative waiver. I reserve the right to clarify and explain this system.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Observation 2 is Massachusetts offers the ideal model of criminal justice </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, Juveniles are frequently already transferred to adult courts via judicial waiver – however this process occurs in an ad hoc fashion – Massachusetts offers a superior model because of its uniformity Chamberlin [1] writes Christine Chamberlin, Boston College Law Review, March 2001. (Lexis: 42 B.C. L. Rev 391) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Under judicial waiver…….. adult criminal court.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Second, Massachusetts offers the perfect model of trying juveniles as adults – it maintains harsher sentences for murderers while reasonably maintaining blended sentencing for less serious offenses Chamberlin [2] continues </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> To prevent juveniles…… retribution be properly attained.. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Third, Our plan strengthens the rehabilitation function of juvenile courts -- Massachusetts system offers best hope for actual rehabilitation of juvenile offenders – this turns all the negatives arguments Chamberlin [3] furthers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Finally, Massachusetts' legislative waiver………… justice system was founded. n247</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fourth, We have empirical solvency – Massachusetts juvenile crime rates for violent felonies have declined significantly Spinney gives the empirics Elizabeth R. Spinney . Massachusetts Executive Office of Public Safety 04. Massachusetts Juvenile Justice Data and Information December 2004<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://bit.ly/dNCUav]]</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Part I crimes, also referred……… the general Massachusetts population.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Fifth, Massachusetts model is key to effective deterrence of violent juvenile crime Chamberlin [4] writes </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, in addition to providing……….. systematically and predictably. n232</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finally, Massachusetts system is the best hope for solving violent crime by juveniles Chamberlin [5] concludes In the wake of recent incidents…….punishment, deterrence and rehabilitation. </span>



==Negative== 

===Court Clog DA=== 

A. Uniqueness - The shift away from criminalizing juvenile offenses is freeing up judicial resources now
Berkshire Eagle 12-11<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> 2010</span>

(“Juvenile crime declines”, Lexis)

There's been a..........who go that route

Wood ‘00
(Daniel B.-, March 9, Christian Science Monitor, “Juvenile Justice and Same-Sex Marriage”, www.cyc-net.org/today2000/today000309.html)
Making it easier for prosecutors to try juveniles as adults will clog the court system
Wilson says allowing...........on crime deterrents

B. Links
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Most juvenile crime is gang related</span>
Berkey-Gerard ‘1

(Mark-, March 5, Gotham Gazette, “Youth Gangs”, http://www.gothamgazette.com/iotw/gangs)

Youth gangs have............substantial criminal force

Prosecuting juvenile gang members as adults clogs the courts
Lagorio ‘5

(Christine-, CBS News, May 9, “Gang Violence: A Federal Crime? It Would Be, Under House Bill With Tough Penalties, Including Death”, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2005/05/09/national/main694098.shtml]])
The rapid spread........in federal courts

C. Impact
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">Clogging the courts undermines their ability to hear organized crime cases. </span>
Washington Times ‘94

(Nov. 12)

Judge Reinhardt said............ has district judges

Effective crackdowns on organized crime depends on quick court decisions
Anderson & Jackson ‘4
(William L.-, Assist. Prof. of Econ. @ Frostburg St. U., Candice E.-, Attorney with Judicial Watch, April 1, Reason Foundation, “Washington's biggest crime problem: the federal government's ever-expanding criminal code is an affront to justice and the Constitution”, Lexis)

Once a prosecutor........by fingering someone else

Strong organized crime networks enable WMD terrorism by selling and smuggling weapons
Jane’s Terrorist and Security Montior ‘00

(June 19, “The New Threat of Organized Crime and Terrorism”, [[http://www.janes.com/security/international_%20security/news/jtsm/%20jtsm000619_1_n.shtml|http://www.janes.com/security/international_ security/news/jtsm/ jtsm000619_1_n.shtml]])

Of course, ................ in continental Europe

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Even a failed nuclear attack would risk extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Sid-Ahmed ‘4</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Mohamed-, Al Ahram weekly, “Extinction!”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: blue; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span>__</span>)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We have reached a point.............we will all be losers</span>

===Cap K=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LINK#1: The affirmative’s elevation of justice above other values prop up the capitalist state and entrench capitalism Geras writes</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Norman Geras, Professor University of Manchester 1989</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.marxists.org/reference/subject/philosophy/works/us/geras.htm]]</span> Principles of justice are,…….. for violating it.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">LINK #2: The criminal justice system sustains capitalism Fernandes writes Luis Fernandes, Doctoral Candidate at ASU 2004 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.newformulation.org/4fernandez.htm]]</span> Parenti starts by noting………“hard-line” social control. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Next, Impact and Alternative The alternative is to refuse the affirmative. Our refusal opens up new space for change – the affirmative ensures extinction Herod 04 continues (James, Faculty at University of Massachusetts, Graduate of Columbia University, The Strategy described abstractly Section 6. of Getting Free, site.www.umb.edu, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]]</span>) It is time to try to describe……. possibly even to extinction.</span>

===Supreme Court CP=== 

Counterplan Text: The United States Supreme Court should rule that juveniles within the juvenile justice system should receive the following rights the right to trial by jury and the guaranteed right to counsel and Supreme Court will rule that the waiver of juveniles to adult courts should be prohibited. 

Observation one is competition
First, the counterplan is mutually exclusive – the counterplan retain prosecution of juveniles in the juvenile justice system – this is the opposite of the affirmative who tries juveniles as adults

Second, the counterplan is net beneficial – the cp avoids all of the disadvantages and case turns that are reasons trying juveniles as adults are bad.

Observation two is solvency
The Supreme Court has the authority to reform the juvenile justice system
Jeffrey <span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Butts and</span></span> Adele <span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Varrell</span></span> – Urban Institute <span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span></span>
http://www.urban.org/publications/307452.html

<span style="line-height: 24px;">In a series of cases.....of double jeopardy</span>



=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]