[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
Legalization AC
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The war on drugs is worse than a failure, it is the cause of the very problems it seeks to rectify. The system is broken. We must change our approach away from criminal justice and towards public health.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ed Brayton. Drug Czar Admits War on Drugs Failure. May 19, 2010. http://scienceblogs.com/dispatches/2010/05/drug_czar_admits_war_on_drugs.php</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The head of...a criminal problem.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Marijuana use is a defining feature of American culture. Current laws are ineffective. It’s not going to just disappear.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Sarah N. Lynch, An American Pastime: Smoking Pot, Time, July 11, 2008, http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1821697,00.html</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Netherlands, with...marijuana," Anthony says.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Only by legalizing marijuana can we decrease abuse rates via education programs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Blumenson, Eric, and Eva Nilsen. "NO RATIONAL BASIS: THE PRAGMATIC CASE FOR MARIJUANA LAW REFORM." //Virginia Journal of Social Policy & the Law// (2009). //Lexis Nexis//.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Legalization also paves...focus has not.</span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Plan: California will enact The Marijuana Control, Regulation, and Education Act, also known as California Assembly Bill 390 (A.B. 390) using normal means fiat.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mexico is on the brink of collapse because of narcotics trade – corruption runs too deep to fix from within.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Guy Lawson, The Making of a Narco State, Rolling Stone, Mar. 19, 2009, http://www.cannabisculture.com/v2/content/making-narco-state </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mexico is on...notorious drug lords.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">US demand for illicit drugs drives increasing violence in Mexico.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Beau Kilmer, Jonathan P. Caulkins, Brittany M. Bond, Peter H. Reuter. Reducing Drug Trafficking Revenues and Violence in Mexico: Would Legalizing Marijuana in California Help? RAND, International Programs and Drug Policy Research Center. 2010. http://www.rand.org/pubs/occasional_papers/2010/RAND_OP325.pdf</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The recent surge...consumption is difficult.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Violence in Mexico is already bad – mutilation and bombings are increasingly common, femicide is at a highpoint and the best plan we have is a duplication of Plan Columbia which allowed that country to enact the worst human rights abuses in the Western Hemisphere.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Bill Weinberg. Could a Sudden Collapse of Mexico Be Obama's Surprise Foreign Policy Challenge? February 19, 2009. http://www.alternet.org/world/127850/could_a_sudden_collapse_of_mexico_be_obama%27s_surprise_foreign_policy_challenge/ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Yet even if...has been ignored.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Legalization in California would push out Mexican drug trade.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Beau Kilmer, Jonathan P. Caulkins, Brittany M. Bond, Peter H. Reuter. Reducing Drug Trafficking Revenues and Violence in Mexico: Would Legalizing Marijuana in California Help? RAND, International Programs and Drug Policy Research Center. 2010. http://www.rand.org/pubs/occasional_papers/2010/RAND_OP325.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Mexican DTOs earn...California use today.</span>


==Negative== 
START DA


<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.0pt;">A) Uniqueness- The NEW Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty is on track to pass by the end of the year. Hall writes,  </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Mimi Hall [USA Today writer]. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">War in Senate brewing over U.S.-Russia arms deal. June 24th 2010. Google News.</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">WASHINGTON — As President...</span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">over national security."</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B) Links- </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10.0pt;">going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill political capital. Keating writes, </span><span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"><span style="color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 6pt;">In a **<span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: none; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: none; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: none; border-top-width: 1pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">column...</span>**</span><span style="color: #1f1f1f;">of the debate.</span></span>

<span style="color: #1f1f1f;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10.0pt;">Moreover, START is necessary to maintaining and monitoring nuclear stockpiles. Bergmann writes, </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 6.0pt;">A Strong Case For New Start. Center For American Progress. April 6, 2010. Max Bergmann [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics Review Journal, and Issues in Science and Technology. MA from London School of Economics].</span></span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/04/new_start.html]]</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 6.0pt;">.</span></span></span>

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Blocking New START...for U.S. security.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">C) Impacts- </span>START key to improving U.S. Russian relations and stopping nuclear proliferation John Isaacs writes:
<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">09</span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[</span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6.0pt;">[[http://www.armscontrolcenter.org/policy/nuclearweapons/articles/how_the_new_start_treaty_increases_us_security/]]</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">, </span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">John Isaacs is the Executive Director of the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation where his work focuses on national security issues in Congress, Iraq, missile defense, and nuclear weapons. Isaacs has published articles //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">in the</span>//</span></span><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">New York Times, Los Angeles Times, Atlanta Journal, St. Louis Post Dispatch, Christian Science Monitor, Nuclear Times, Arms Control Today, American Journal of Public Health, and Technology Review</span>//<span class="apple-style-span">//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>//</span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">”How the New Start Treaty Increases U.S. Security”]</span>

<span style="line-height: 12px;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">New START is...</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Iran’s nuclear program.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">U.S. Russian relations solve every impact, CFR Task Force:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;"> 2006 [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Since the dissolution...a positive track</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">U.S. Russian tensions spill over globally and risk major power wars, CFR Task Force:</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">2006 [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Over time, accumulating...affect the outcome.</span>__</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> __﻿__</span>









=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]