[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**Plan: The United States Federal Government Should Fully Withdraw its Military Presence Stationed in South Korea.**

**Contention One is Inherency:**
**The U.S. currently has 28,500 Military Personnel Stationed in South Korea – No reductions are planned**.
Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs ’10 (U.S. Department of State on Asian-Pacific matters; ‘Background Note: South Korea;’ May 28, 2010; http://www.state.gov/r/pa/ei/bgn/2800.htm, Accessed June 23, 2010) cut this card.

The United States believes…….creation in both countries.

**Contention Two is Regional War:**
**Tensions along the Korean Peninsula are at an all-time high after the sinking of the South Korea warship and U.S. presence will inevitably trigger a conflict**
MacLeod ‘10(Calum, Political reporter for USA Today**, “Tension in Korea: A sunken ship, and talk of war”, 6/3/2010, USA Today, http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2010-06-01-korea-tension_N.htm)

The March 26 sinking of….for the Jane’s Information Group)

**U.S. forces act as a tripwire drawing them into conflict**
Strobel 10 (Warren P.-, Jonathan S. Landay, McClatchy Newspapers, “Will North Korea's saber rattling lead to war?”, http:// www.idahostatesman.com/2010/05/25/1240041/will-north-koreas-saber-rattling.html#ixzz0s0h0em1f; )

North Korea’s decision Tuesday to……rise in coming days.

North Korea will become desperate and target U.S. forces. The U.S. will retaliate with nuclear weapons. Withdrawal is the only peaceful solution
Meyer 9 (Carlton, former U.S. Marine Corps officer, participated in military exercises in Korea, “The Pentagon’s Favorite Demon”, The Future of Freedom Foundation, 18 June, http://www.fff.org/comment/com0906h.asp)

The North Korean military…..ought to be doing themselves.

That war causes Extinction
Hayes and Green 9 (Peter, Professor of International Relations, RMIT University, Melbourne; and Director, Nautilus Institute, San Francisco, and Michael, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development, Victoria University, Melbourne, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, 50-1-09, December 14, http://japanfocus.org/articles/print_article/3267)

Korea and Northeast Asia are…..chaos that would ensue.

A Korean conflict would draw in Russia and China
Stares 9 (Paul B., Senior Fellow for Conflict Prevention at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2.3.9, “Prepare for North Korean instability,”)

It is possible, however….North Korea is virtually guaranteed

U.S. – Sino war leads to Extinction
Strait Times 00 (The Straits Times (Singapore), “No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, 2000, L/N)

The doomsday scenario THE…..sovereignty above everything else.

U.S. – Russia war leads to Extinction
Helfand and Pastore 9 [Ira Helfand, M.D., and John O. Pastore, M.D., are past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility.March 31, 2009, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html]

President Obama and Russian President…. 1995 remains in place today.

Without U.S. troops present, any Korean conflict would be confined to the peninsula
Bandow 96 (Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and a Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute (Doug, TRIPWIRE; Korea and U.S. Foreign Policy in a Changed World, pg. 8-10)

Military Dangers More important is….would deter any adventurism.

Removing U.S. troop presence is key to prevent war
Tisdale 10 (an assistant editor of the Guardian and a foreign affairs columnist (5/24/10, Simon, The Guardian, " China faces touch choices over Korea ", http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2010/may/24/china-faces-tough-choices-korea)

The risk of renewed, all-out….at the UN security council.

Contention 3 is modernization
South Korea is free-riding – defense spending is tiny
Bennett 10 (Bruce, Senior Policy Analyst – RAND Corporation, “S. Korea’s Military Capability ‘Inadequate’”, Chosun Ilbo, 1-29, http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2010/01/29/2010012900705.html)

An American academic……catastrophic threats," he added.

Chinese aggression towards Taiwan high – they’re already targeting Taiwan
Taiwan News 10 March 19, 2010. (http://www.etaiwannews.com/etn/news_content.php?id=1205714&lang=eng_news DA: 8/30/10 LN.)

China has installed eight…..submarine designs Taiwan wanted.

China-Taiwan war will inevitably draw in the US and cause nuclear war and the destruction of civilization
Cheong, 2000 – East Asia Correspondent (Ching Cheong, The Straits Times, “No one gains in war over Taiwan,” 6-25-2000, Lexis-Nexis Universe)

A cross-strait conflict….sovereignty above everything else.

Plan prompts South Korean conventional force modernization which allows it to deter Chinese aggression
Bandow, 09 – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (6/16/09, Doug, “A Tattered Umbrella,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21606, JMP)

South Korea’s foreign minister reports….into an international crisis

South Korean modernization stops Chinese, Japanese, and Russian aggression
Bandow 96 (Doug, Senior Fellow – Cato Institute and Robert A. Taft Fellow – American Conservative Defense Alliance, Tripwire: Korea and U.S. Foreign Policy in a Changed World, p. 63-64)

None of those arguments suggests……any of its major neighbors

ROK military modernization is key to deterring a DPRK invasion and war
Carpenter and Bandow 04 (Ted Galen and Doug, Carpenter is vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute ,Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire, The Korean Conundrum, p.127-128)

Of course, replacing the American…. Foreign assistance. Very true.

US troops are useless – only 5% of the South Korean troop strength
FEFFER 2004 (John, contributor to Foreign Policy in Focus and author of a book on Korea, “Bring Our Troops Home (from Korea),” June 23, http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig5/feffer1.html)

The deeper issue, however…..a North Korean invasion.


=Negative= 
Politics
A. UNIQUENESS
START WILL PASS – HISTORY PROVES IT WILL GET THE VOTES.
CLINTON 9-8. [Hillary, Secretary of State, “Remarks at the Council on Foreign Affairs” CQ Transcripts -- lexis]

CLINTON: Well, I won't……continue working with the Russians.

PC KEY TO START PASSAGE.
Sharp, 8/28/09 (travis, military policy analyst at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, where he specializes in defense budgeting, military policy, and congressional involvement in national security, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/local-priorities-vs-national-interests-arms-control)

While beliefs about national…..from the White House.

C. IMPACT -- START KEY TO SOLVE ACCIDENTS, THEFT, PROLIF AND RELATIONS
Montreal Gazette 9. [July 4, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” -- http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=]

Still, Blair and many others….buried by them,” Blair said.

THE IMPACT IS EXTINCTION.
American Prospect, 2/26/01

The bitter disputes over…war by checklist, by rote.” 

Reverse Island Hop D.A.

A. Closing the Futenma base sparks wildfire grass-root movements against the U.S. military – this is the only scenario for a complete drawdown in U.S. military forces
John Feffer is the co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies and writes its regular World Beat column, Mar 6, 2010, “Okinawa and the new domino effect”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html)
Wherever the US military ……exit arrow is pointing.

B. These grass-root movements would not only push the U.S. military presence out of Japan, they would threaten the very bilateral security alliance between the U.S. and Japan and derail the credibility of the U.S. in East Asia
Michael Auslin, director of Japan studies at the American Enterprise Institute, JUNE 16, 2010, “The Real Futenma Fallout”, http://online.wsj.com/article/NA_WSJ_PUB:SB10001424052748704324304575307471399789704.html )
Japanese military officials worry ………however, is another matter.

C. Regional states’ confidence in the U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. global leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, China conflict and war in India-Pakistan and Korea
Evelyn Goh– Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford , International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database)
The centrality of these … to be much worse.

REVISE SOFA CP

Text: The United States federal government should revise the Japan-US Status of Forces Agreement by:
-Mandating that all suspects of crime against Japanese civilians be transferred to Japanese custody before indictment if so requested by Japan AND Mandating that the US be responsible for cleaning up polluted soil and that it set up environmental standards similar to those on bases in US soil
Funding for the counterplan will be diverted from the host-nation budgetary allocation to U.S. bases.
We reserve the right to clarify.
Counterplan solves the rape and environment advantages
Katsumata, ’09 (9/19/09, Hidemichi, The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo), “Japan-U.S. SOFA at crossroads;
Preindictment transfers, environmental protection in govt's sights”, http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/us/lnacademic/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T9621849772&format=GNBFI&sort=BOOLEAN&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T9621849776&cisb=22_T9621849775&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=145202&docNo=6)

During their negotiations on forming……around U.S. bases here.

Japan QPQ – 1NC
TEXT: The United States Federal Government should offer to <do the plan> if Japan agrees to adopt a self-defense force, whose tasks include, but are not limited to, a guarantee to support the United States in any future confrontation with China over Taiwan.

Japan will say yes – the Okinawa bargains prove
Japan Visitor, ’10. JapanVisitor.com is a subsidiary of Soccerphile™ Limited and is a member of the American Chamber of Commerce (ACCJ) Japan. http://japanvisitor.blogspot.com/2010/04/us-to-pull-out-of-okinawa-japan.html.
United States Secretary of ………………. is even actually desirable.”

An independent Japan aligned with the US solves Taiwan conflict--restricts Chinese sphere of influence
Preble, ‘6 [Christopher, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, “Two Normal Countries Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship” CATO Policy Analysis, April 18, 2006, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa566.pdf]
But lingering hostility toward ….patron for its defense.

Most recent Chinese policy guarantees nuclear war over Taiwan
AFP 10 (Feb 21, http://www.rumormillnews.com/cgi-bin/archive.cgi?noframes;read=1721) LL
BERLIN -- China is ready ……return to the mainland.

CP 1NC
Counterplan text: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in the Republic of Korea through an early withdrawal of the US infantry units, to be followed later by air and naval forces and guarantee that troops will not be redeployed**.**
Forces in South Korea will be moved to the Middle East
Liewer 05/19 (http://www.stripes.com/news/study-weighs-costs-benefits-of-options-in-shifting-u-s-overseas-forces-1.20063)
Rumsfeld has argued that … made yet,” he said.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]