[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==South Korea Prostitution - Valley== 

**Contention 1: The Camptown Life**

**Welcome to Club South Korea, where the GIs go out after an exhausting day of drills to buy a tax-free beer and a lap dance. But this has a disgusting underbelly. The lap dances come from trafficking abductees forced into prostitution all for the pleasure of the militarized world of the United States military base no more than 100 meters away. The South Korean government turns a blind eye to these abhorrent camp towns, all for the sake of appeasing its American ally.**

**Macintyre ‘2**, was Time Magazine's Seoul bureau chief from 2001-2006 Monday, Aug. 05, 2002, Base Instincts http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,333899,00.html

For the G.I.s at camp casey in Tongduchon . . . blonde Russian in tow.

**The militarism embedded in the American GIs stationed in South Korea maintains and promotes the oppressive attitude toward the trafficked prostitutes**
**Kirk and Okazawa-rey ’98**, writers for The Women and War Reader, “Making Connections Building an East Asia-U.S. Women’s Network against U.S. Militarism” New York University Press. 1998, http://www.gwynkirk.net/pdf/making_connections_paper.pdf


Participants shared the view that violence against women . . . They are usually denied and covered up. 

**The collection of sex slaves offered by camp towns is a manifestation of militarized prostitution that upholds patriarchy by offering an outlet for aggression, while degrading and destroying the lives of the affected women.**
**Kirk and Francis 2000** (Gwyn and Carolyn Bowen, Founding members of the East Asia-US Women’s Network Against Militarism. “Redefining Security: Women Challenge US Military Policy and Practice in East Asia” Berkeley Women’s Law Journal, 2000, v15, pg. 229)

The women work from early evening until dawn . . . as "little brown fucking machines."

**War is not an event but rather a continual force that causes violence. The status quo’s focus on a looming Korean war is motivated by militaristic crisis-based politics that ignore the cultural and gendered inequalities that make conflict possible**
**Cuomo ‘96** (Chris J. Hypatia, “War is not just an event: Reflections on the significance of everyday Violence”, Bloomington: Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Iss. 4; pg. 30)

Philosophical attention to war has typically appeared . . . and current ideological gravitations to military solutions for social problems. 

**Both the U.S. and South Korea have actively supported and encouraged the use of camp towns in order to meet the “natural needs” of allied soldiers**
**Choe ‘9**, Sang-Hun, New York Times Reporter, January 7, 2009, New York Times < http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/08/world/asia/08korea.html >


Now, a group of former prostitutes in South Korea have accused . . . keeping a twisted and disturbing “peace”. 

**Only a full withdrawal can end the destructive nature of the relationship.**
**Moon ‘97**, Katharine H.S., Department of Political Science and Chair of Asian Studies @ Wellesley College, “Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S./Korea Relations”, 1997, Columbia University Press

I think there is yet another, unspoken, . . . liberation of the kijich'on woman from the sexual domination of the GI. 

**Patriarchy is the root cause of violence and will inevitably cause extinction – replacing patriarchy is essential to challenging all forms of social domination**
**Kelly ‘97** (Petra Kelly, Grassroots Activist and Green Party Member of the German Parliament and Author of Several Books, in “Ecofeminism: women, culture, nature" Edited by Karen J. Warren", p. 112-1 14)

Men's domination of women is deep and systemic, . . . The kind of shared power that has to replace patriarchal power.

In response to the crisis we present the following plan:

**The United States federal government should remove its military presence from South Korea.**

**Contention 2: Solving the Crisis**

**We act to break down conventional domestic/foreign distinctions in international relations—by privileging the question of oppression over traditional politics, we enable a move away from militarism and towards transformed international relations.**
**Tickner ‘92** (J. Ann, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci. @ Holy Cross, "Gender in International Relations", p. 17-19) 

Since, as 1 have suggested, the world of international politics relationship between militarism and structural violence

**The US military presence in South Korea is the lynchpin of the forced prostitution crisis. The only way to dismantle the trafficking industry is to remove the US presence.**
**Dujisin ‘**9, Zoltan, July 7 2009, “Prostitution Thrives with US Military Presence”, Inter Press Service News Agency, http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556

Since 1945, U.S. troops have been stationed in . . . anti-prostitution policies have forced these places to minimize their visibility. 

**Demands on the state are necessary for reform - radical gestures only ensure the continuation of oppression**
**Nussbaum ‘99** (Martha, Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics at the University of Chicago, 2-22-1999, ‘The New Republic,’ http://www.akad.se/Nussbaum.pdf)

In Butler, resistance is always imagined as personal, . . . Feminism demands more and women deserve better.

**Contention 3: Framing the Round**

**First, util leads to monstrous choices because of its senseless search for maximal happiness**
**Posner ‘79**, Richard, Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and Lecturer at University of Chicago Law School, (“Utilitarianism, economics, and legal theory”, The Journal of Legal Studies, Vol.8, No. 1 (Jan., 1979))

Another difficulty with utilitarianism . . . all but one will be worse off. 

**Util promotes inequity and inherently discriminates against minorities – it justifies slavery, forced prostitution, and other deplorable acts**
**Odell ‘4** – University of Illinois is an Associate Professor of Philosophy (Jack, Ph.D., “On Consequentialist Ethics,” Wadsworth, Thomson Learning, Inc., pp. 98-103)

A classic objection to both act and rule . . . Gods for the welfare of the group.

**Set the bar high for their DAs. Their impacts overlook the value of human life in their neutralizing conception of the world.**
**Donnelly ‘85**, Jack, College of the Holy Cross, The Concept of Human Rights, 1985, p. 55-58

Basic moral and political rights are . . . than those of utility-based political strategies. 



**Be suspect of their disad – the data behind their arguments is politically biased to prop up the current system of subordinating women’s concerns**
**Tickner ‘6**, Feminist Methodologies or International Relations, J. Ann Ticker: Professor, School of IR at USC, edited by Brooke A. Ackerly: Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at Vanderbilt University, Maria Stern: Lecturer and Researcher at the Department of Peace and Development Research, Goteborg University, and Jacqui True: Senior Lecturer in the Department of Political Studies at the University of Auskland, New Zealand, 2006, Cambridge University Press p. 37 

These two cases, as with most feminist . . .men interact with the marketplace (Waring 1988: 17— 18).

**The neg’s crisis-based scenarios prop up the system of patriarchy– we must refuse their deceptive dualistic dilemmas**
**Kheel ‘93** (Marti, Writer with a doctorate in religious studies, ‘From Heroic to Holistic Ethics: The Ecofeminist Challenge,’ Temple University Press, 1993, http://martikheel.com/pdf/heroic-holistic-ethics.pdf)

In order to engage in holistic ethics . . . rather than as a natural part of life?


**Demilitarizing alone doesn’t solve the aff – our discourse is key to solvency**
**Enloe ‘93** – Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of the Cold War” p. 139-141, MT)

The factories most often located in these countries . . . men experience the post Cold War world.

**Finally, representations are important because they directly affect how the plan is perceived and implemented**
**Doty '96** (Roxanne Lynn, assistant professor of political science at Arizona State University, 1996, "Imperial Encounters: the politics of representation in North-South relations", pages 5-6)

This study begins with the premise . . . of political, military, and economic power.

==South Korea Prostitution - Millard West/South== 

**Contention 1 is the Prostitutes’ Struggle**

**Despite U.S. claims, government policies do nothing to stop forced prostitution in South Korea.**
**Dujisin ‘9** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Zoltan Dujisin, Jul 7, 2009, “Prostitution Thrives with U.S. Military Presence”, IPS]</span>

U.S. officials have made statements . . . from Southeast Asian countries. 

**The militarism embedded in the American GIs stationed in South Korea maintains and promotes the oppressive attitude toward the trafficked prostitutes**
**Kirk and Okazawa-rey ’98**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;">, writers for The Women and War Reader, “Making Connections Building an East Asia-U.S. Women’s Network against U.S. Militarism” New York University Press. 1998, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">http://www.gwynkirk.net/pdf/making_connections_paper.pdf</span> </span>

Participants shared the view that violence against women . . . They are usually denied and covered up. 

**The collection of sex slaves offered by camp towns is a manifestation of militarized prostitution that upholds patriarchy by offering an outlet for aggression, while degrading and destroying the lives of the affected women.**
**Kirk and Francis 2000** <span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(Gwyn and Carolyn Bowen, Founding members of the East Asia-US Women’s Network Against Militarism. “Redefining Security: Women Challenge US Military Policy and Practice in East Asia” Berkeley Women’s Law Journal, 2000, v15, pg. 229)</span>

The women work from early evening until dawn . . . for example, as "little brown fucking machines."(n105) 

**Forced Prostitution re-entrenches the patriarchal social order.**
**Hofmann ‘98**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> [Cecillia Hofmann, Coalition Against Trafficking in Women – Asia Pacific, “What if she chooses prostition?” November 1998, http://cpcabrisbane.org/Kasama/1999/V13n2/Cecilia.htm</span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">]</span>

A major argument being put forward . . . women free from liability, has been discussed. 

**Patriarchy is the root cause of all forms of violence – replacing patriarchy is essential to challenging all forms of social domination. We each have a moral obligation to reject patriarchal ways of thinking in our own lives. Our rejection is a key starting point for change.**
**Kelly ‘97**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Petra Kelly, Grassroots Activist and Green Party Member of the German Parliament and Author of Several Books, in “Ecofeminism: women, culture, nature" Edited by Karen J. Warren", p. 112-1 14)</span>

Men's domination of women is deep and systemic . . . that has to replace patriarchal power. 

**Military prostitution in Korea is sustained by racist depictions of Asian women—the legacy of US occupation exacerbates racism worldwide**
**Moon ‘97** <span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;">– Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, Department of Political Science and Edith Stix Wasserman Chair of Asian Studies (Katherine, “Sex among Allies” 1997, p. 33-35, MT)</span>

In Olongapo and Angeles in the Philippines . . . for work in massage parlors and brothels. 

**Racism is evil and must be resisted. This is not only an ethical but also a practical appeal – Complicity in injustice endorses all forms of violence and domination**
**Memmi 2000**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Albert, Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ U of Paris, Naiteire, Racism, Translated by Steve Martinot, p. 163-165)</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">The struggle against racism will be long . . . wager, but the stakes are irresistible.</span>

**Thus we present the following plan:**

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in South Korea.**

**Contention 2 is Solving the Dilemma**

**First, we have spillover – Our focus on military prostitution gives insight into the role women play in the international sphere. This exposes dependence on feminizing women, and opens up space for resistance against the artificial notions of masculinity.**
**Enloe ‘93** <span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;">– Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “Bananas, Beaches and Bases” p. 16-18 MT)</span>

It's true that in international politics . . . whose gendered dynamics we have scarcely begun to fathom. 

**Patriarchy and oppression are not inevitable – Challenging hierarchies of oppression allows for change**
**Peterson and Runyan ‘99**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> professor of political science at the University of Arizona and professor of women’s studies at Wright State University, 1999 (V. Spike and Anne, Global Gender Issues, 2nd edition, p. 227-228</span>

The assumption that violence is . . . national, and global hierarchies. 

**Put away your turns – the realities of oppression trump useless theorizing. Not making demands on the state encourages complicity and is nothing more than a narcissistic act. It ensures the continuation of oppression… In other words, material political action is key.**
**Nussbaum ‘9**9<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Martha, Distinguished Service Professor of Law and Ethics at the University of Chicago, 2-22-1999, ‘The New Republic,’ <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.akad.se/Nussbaum.pdf]]</span>)</span>

In Butler, resistance is always imagined . . . Feminism demands more and women deserve better. 

**The aff’s genuine ethics are key to solvenvy – their cp does not access this**
**Dunlop 5**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;">, -Ashgate Publishing, Ltd., 2005 - <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.google.com/search?tbs=bks:1&tbo=p&q=+subject:%22Psychology%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0|‪]]</span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.google.com/search?tbs=bks:1&tbo=p&q=+subject:%22Psychology%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0|Psychology]]</span>, Sexual ethics: the meaning and foundations of sexual morality</span>‬<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> By Aurel Kolnai, Francis Dunlop</span>

Every ‘reality-disregarding’ ethics . . . also has its natural ‘place’ in reality. 

**The aff’s focus on product is critical to adopting a proper ethical stance. Focus of process divorces this stance.**
**Oenen ‘6**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> Gijs Van Oenen, senior lecturer in the department of philosophy at Erasmus University Rotterdam, “A Machine That Would Go of Itself: Interpassivity and Its Impact on Political Life,” Theory and Event, 2006 (Project Muse) </span>

This metaphor signifies of course . . . is involvement with itself. 

**Contention 3 is Oppression comes first**

**War is not an event but rather a continual force that causes violence. A focus on war as an event perpetuates militaristic crisis-based politics that ignore the cultural and gendered inequalities that make conflict possible. Their scenarios are trapped in the same logic of an impending crisis that we must always avoid that prevents us from ever addressing structural violence.**
**Cuomo ‘96**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Chris J. Hypatia, “War is not just an event: Reflections on the significance of everyday Violence”, Bloomington: Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Iss. 4; pg. 30) </span>

Philosophical attention to war has . . . gravitations to military solutions for social problems. 

**Finally, an endless focus on crisis scenarios causes social paralysis and lets oppression continue unabated. It’s representative of the worst kind of Pyrrhic victory – only a break from this mode of thinking can ensure value to life and morality.**
**Callahan ‘7**3<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Daniel, 1973, “The Tyranny of Survival”, p. 91-3)</span>

The value of survival could . . . Pyrrhic victory to end all Pyrrhic victories.

==Critical Okinawa - Kearney== 

Note - Daniel was maverick.

**Contention 1 is the “Convenient” Agreement** 

**Half of the U.S. personnel in Japan are located in Okinawa – it’s a convenient agreement for everyone except for the Okinawans themselves** 
**Bandow ‘10**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> -- Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University (2010, Doug, National Interest Online, “Get Out of Japan,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23592]]</span>)</span> 

When World War II ended . . . except the people who live there. 

**Okinawa has become the forced bastion of American power – presence is justified to deter the “unknown threat” at the cost of Okinawan autonomy** 
**Inoue ‘7**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> -- Ph.D. in cultural anthropology from Duke University and assistant professor of the Japan Studies Program and the Department of Modern and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Cultures at the University of Kentucky. Visiting Associate Professor in the Department of Engineering of the Shibaura Institute of Technology (4/15, Masamichi S., “Okinawa and the U.S. Military: Identity Making in the Age of Globalization, pg. 8)</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span>

However, today, with the promised year . . . Okinawa’s resistance. 

**The status quo agreement decimates the environment and oppresses Okinawans politically, economically, and socially. The commodification of the Okinawan Prefecture strips Okinawans of their identity, all in the name of Japanese security.** 
**Mantle ‘6**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 (“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, Available Online at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf]]</span>) </span>

Accidents, ‘incidents’ (a euphemism . . . relationship with the mainland’ (Hook and Siddle, 2003: 6). 

**We’ll isolate three impacts:** 

**First, the sovereign’s understanding of populations as objects to be manipulated to a desired political end justifies all forms of violence – it requires the elimination of threats while bringing the Okinawans closer and closer to the state of bare life; their lives are reduced to tools to serve the “greater good” of Japanese security.**  
**Dean ‘**1<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Mitchell, Prof. of Sociology @ Macquarie University, "Demonic Societies: Liberalism, Biopolitics, and Sovereignty," States of Imagination, edited by Thomas Hansen and Finn Stepputat, p. 55-58)</span> 

Consider again the contrastive terms . . . functioning of the modern state (232). 

**Second, securitizing requires the destruction of the uncertain. Meanwhile, lives become homogenized and bare. The end result is otherization and a loss of value to life.** 
**Dillon ‘3**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Michael, Millenium Journal of International Studies, Professor at Lancaster, pp. 533-534) </span>

Biologisation of life means life . . . trajectories of development. 

**Third, tolerating the destruction of the environment saps us of our humanity, desensitizing us to violence** 
**Bookchin ’87**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Murray Bookchin, co-founder of the Institute of Social Ecology, 1987, "An Appeal For Social and Psychological Sanity," The Modern Crisis, Published by Black Rose Books Ltd., ISBN 0920057624, p. 106-108) </span>

Industrially and technologically. . . reproduce a green and living world.  
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
**Thus the plan:** 

**Independent from any decision regarding the location of the Jungle Warfare Training Center, the United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from the Okinawa prefecture in Japan.** 

**Contention 2 is Solvency** 

**First, the idea of security is a social construct and is the root cause of its own wars – the plan’s investigation of these discourses is key** 
**Grondin ‘4**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, “(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-13)</span> 

Adopting a more critical stance . . . security conduct; it constitutes it. 

**Second, removal of the U.S. military opens up space for alternative conceptions of security that are key to a stable and meaningful peace**  
**Mantle ‘6**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006, “Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf]]</span>, p. 102-103)</span> 

The May 2006 U.S. . . . it must be reworked.  

**Third, realism isn’t inevitable; it depends on our daily interpretations of security threats. Our questioning of the necessity of U.S. military presence in Okinawa threatens the dominant discourse and reshapes security as we know it.** 
**Mantle ‘6**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> Deborah Mantle, Lecturer in the College of International Relations at Ritsumeikan University (Japan), 2006 ,“Defending the Dugong: Redefining ‘Security’ in Okinawa and Japan,” Ritsumeikan Annual Review of International Studies, Volume 5, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/acd/cg/ir/college/bulletin/e-vol.5/MANTLE.pdf]]</span>, p. 89-92)</span> 

‘Ideas are power; they are life . . . within those foundations. 

**Fourth, claiming that realism is inevitable annihilates individual agency – we shouldn’t foreclose the possibility of alleviating Okinawan oppression** 
**Bleiker 2000**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Roland Bleiker, Senior Lecturer and Coordinator of the Peace and Conflict Studies Program at the University of Queensland and former Professor at the Australian National University, the Pusan National University, and the University of Tampere, 2000, Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics, Published by Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0511034172, p. 48-49)</span> 

The very notion of prediction . . . the ensuing political practices.  

**Fifth, policy centered on realism guarantees serial policy failure – we can only solve by investigating the discourse, ontology, and epistemology of problematization** 
**Dillon and Read 2000**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Michael Dillon, Professor of Politics at Lancaster University, and Julian Reid, Lecturer in International Relations at King's College (London), 2000, “Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Volume 25, Issue 1, January-March, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Premier)</span> 

As a precursor to global governance. . . (policy) problematized by it. 

**Contention 3 is The Paradigm** 

**First, hold them accountable for what they say – reps play a crucial role in policy formation** 
**Crawford ‘2**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Professor of political science at Boston University with PhD in political science, “Argument and Change in World Politics,” 2002, pg. 19-21, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://assets.cambridge.org/97805218/02444/sample/9780521802444ws.pdf]]</span>)</span> 

More common are meta-arguments . . . Hence framing is a meta-argument. 

**Second, hyperbolic impact scenarios reinforce an ‘insecurity state’ that prevents all change, perpetually maintaining the status quo** 
**Chernus ‘5**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Ira Chernus, Professor of Religious Studies - University of Colorado, 5, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.zmag.org/content/showarticle.cfm?ItemID=8871]]</span>)  </span>

Fear can be an energizing emotion . . . protect us from fear's worst effects. 

**Finally, attempts to start from a position of preventing large-scale violence blinds us and makes war and violence inevitable. We must address structural oppression first and refuse crisis-based scenarios that distract attention from ongoing problems.** 
**Cuomo ’96**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Chris J. Cuomo, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati, 1996, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via JSTOR, p. 31-32) </span> 

Ethical approaches that do . . . inevitability of war and militarism. 

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]