[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

===TOC Outrounds AC:=== 


I negate. I reserve the right to clarify. 

Ought is defined as policymaking. 
Treat is defined as a policy 
Juvenile and adult courts are contextually defined by blacks law as policymaking. 
Double breathing is key to uh uh uh uh… 
And all your frameworks are belong to me because if you make arguments against my arguments then my arguments go away oh nooooooooo. o donnel
//<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">afc</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">[**affirmative framework choice**] **preserves the value of the** </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">first</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> **affirmative constructive speech.** </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">This speech[which] is the starting point for the debate. It is a function of necessity. The debate must begin somewhere if it is to begin at all.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Failure to grant AFC is a denial of the service rendered by the aff</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">irmative team</span>**__<span style="color: black;">’s </span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">labor when they crafted this speech.</span>__**//
//This is unfair because arguments skew alllll my ground. Fairness is a voting issue for fairness because you cant determine an unfair debate because its unfair, which skews the unfair evaluation of unfairness.//
//This also denies the fruits of my labor so it violates deontology, which is key to fairness because side constraints against unfairness are pretty boss.//
//And, AFC stops extinction. O donnel//
**__AFC will stop extinction.__**
Prefer aff interps as long as they are reasonably dumb to counterbalance more neg speeches and ability to choose an advocacy in the 1ac. And disclosure is key to disclosure and I didn’t disclose so they didn’t disclose so reject him apriori. 
And, the 2ar postdates so takes into account all relevant variables and is always right. 
The value is policymaking, as hasnas asserts

//**__The government is compromised__** <span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">not </span>**__of__**<span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;"> philosophers, but of </span>**__practically__**<span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;"> minded lawyers, [</span>**__simple-minded__**<span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">] </span>**__economists__**<span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">, statisticians, and other social scientists who are neither trained in nor familiar with the vagaries of moral philosophy.</span>//

//And, Deontology sucks. Username wireborn on giaonline gaming forum writes.//
**__<span style="color: black;">Deontology sucks and I hate it.</span>__**
Thus, vote aff PRESTANDARDS to reduce suction. 
The criterion is net benefits, as explained by livestrong.com.
//**__<span style="color: black;">A trampoline can provide hours of fun and aerobic</span>__** **__<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; padding: 0in;">exercise</span>__****__<span style="color: black;">. The amount of fun activities you can perform on a trampoline are really only limited by your own sense of creativity. Whether you like to just bounce around or enjoy including items such as a basketball hoop or a skateboard deck to your time spent on a trampoline, it's sure to be entertaining. Trampolines, while fun, can also be dangerous, especially for small children. You should consider adding a safety net to the perimeter of your trampoline, which provides many safety benefits and can significantly help reduce the risk of injury.</span>__**//

//And deontology is key to net benefits. Bryan silly McSillyperson Writes//
**__No martin I will not write cards for you oh okay I guess I will hahaha martin ur so funny oh yeah deontology is key to net benefits haha that’s funny, when do you expect to run this case__**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">, you fucking dumbass retarded mother fucker who makes false arguments, fucking goddammit fucker fuck. </span>
And, util = key. Inverntorspot.com.
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Util</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">i </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Key is a remarkable multi-tool manufactured using superb Swiss design. This smart key shaped gadget has six functions. It functions as a bottle opener, a flat screwdriver, a Phillips screwdriver, a micro screwdriver (ideal for glasses), a razor sharp straight/serrated blade and a key ring all rolled into one. </span>__**</span>//
//<span style="color: black;">My Phillips screwdrive fixes EVERYTHING so I solve their case and the round and their impacts so none of their arguments matter. I can also tweak their standard to util with a micro screwdriver so fast that ive already made their case a reason to vote for me! They just didn’t notice my screwdriver was just tooooooo small! </span>//
//<span style="color: black;">And, net benefits destabilize oppressive leaders. Nikoli marinov writes </span>//
//**__Using panel data on 136 countries, observed over an average of 37 years, I find that the presence of__** <span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">[</span>**__the Lincoln Douglass net benefits standard__**<span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">] sanctions</span> **__against a government leader in a given year makes her or him significantly more likely to lose power in the following year.7 Specifically__**,<span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;"> sanctions [</span>**__using utilitarianism in Lincoln Douglass debate rounds__**<span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">]</span> **__increase the baseline risk of losing power by 28%.__**//
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">Observation 1 is the plan text: Little Johnny and Innocent Timmy ought to be treated and given the harshest possible penalty in the adult criminal justice system. </span>//
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">Advantage 1 is solvency: Innocent Timmy is guilty. Timmy</span>// explains under deep torture: 
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__I__** <span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">didn’t do It why are yoyu asking me questions oh my god what is that OH MY GOD OH MY GOD OH MY GOD AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! I</span> **__Did it!__** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">This is key to stopping extinction. Bryan E. McWildChild explains </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">[**__Giving Little Johnny and Innocent Timmy the harshest possible penalty in the adult system is key to stopping extinction__** ]<span style="font-size: 6pt; line-height: 115%;">Wait, what? </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">Observation 4 is the impact. Extinction saves puppies. The winner of NDF Boston’s top lab hardest worker award 2010 writes</span>
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__I think extinction kills puppies__**. </span>//
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And puppies are key to stopping extinction. TrollScience </span>//writes 
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__Puppy Proof:__** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__Step 1: All we need is love__** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__Step 2: It is impossible to not love puppies__** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__Step 3: therefore we need only puppies__** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__Step 4: therefore puppies dying sucks the world away and kills us all as there is no object of our love.__** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And, they don’t care about puppies, vote them down prestandards because they have no love and thus do not exist, and you cant vote for someone who doesn’t exist. </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And in extinction you don’t get fairies, who live in the forest with Hasnas. Fairies control the direction of every link ever since they can poof links in and out of existance. This affirms prestandards since I can poof their case out of existence. </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">Also, only punishing a guilty Timmy is key to fairies since they have no incentive to make bargains with a cheater, so vote aff apriori. </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And punishment is the only way the government will give up custody and stop torturing timmy so that he can play with his new trampoline net so I actually link to the standard, so you vote for me prestandards. </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">Advantage 2 is backbone. Johnny //writes:// </span>
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__Getting punished so severely really made me a man and gave me some backbone. I just got so friggin manly it wasn’t even funny. My 22 year old borther don’ wanna mess with me no mo.’ This is probably key to stopping extinction.__** </span>//
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And only sufficient political capitol with Johnny is key to developing nanotechnology. Johnny explains his theoretically physical proof of time symmetric quantum mechanics. </span>//
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__Look! Look! Green thingies right there! Yayyyyyyyy! I will only give them to you if you give me a toy truck and give me sufficient backbone so that I can spend my friggin political capitol on solving all of the problems in the negative case.__** </span>//
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And nanobots break down my opponents link chain because they eat straight through the weak carbon based substances of my opponent and their carbonate link chains. This also affirms prestandards since they cannot win the round if they are eaten. </span>//
//<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And, Johnny’s backbone is key to heg. Kagan</span>//
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">**__China, Japan, and South Africa all have regional security concerns and declining food shortages that must allow them to constantly reevaluate their strategic options in light of current options. Johnny’s backbone is crucial; his mainly chest and winning resolve is key to stopping a preemptive strike, as who would bother to strike us if Timmy’s bulging muscles stood in the way, barring both any chance of missle impact and any chance of retaliation.__** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And heg is absolutely and positively key to heg, as per the reflexive property. This also means you vote neg right now prestandards since the moment you contemplate voting for aff china will preemptively strike down your ballot with ten million tons of hellfire nukes! </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And, heg is key to the ballot since they are expressions of imperialism, so no heg, no ballot for you sir. </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in;">And, prefer links back to the standard about empirical instances of nets and capturing the undesirable over any link to the standard. (net opponent with coat) I have just netted my opponent and get plus 80 million net benefits, the round is over. </span>



----

1 //<span style="color: black;">“And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate”. Timothy M. O’Donnell. Director of Debate. University of Mary Washington.</span>//

//<span style="font-style: normal;">2 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; font-style: normal; line-height: 22px;">“Why Alternate Forensic Calculations will fail to stop extinction” Terrence O’Donnel</span>//

3 <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">//Hasnas, John. Ass. Prof. Business Ethics at Georgetown University and a Senior Research Fellow at the Kennedy Institute, 1995//</span>

4 <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">[[http://www.gaiaonline.com/forum/general-discussion/ask-a-philosophy-ta-anything/t.65811303_31/]]</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 22.5pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> //5 <span style="color: #333333; font-family: inherit,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Benefits of Trampoline Safety Nets </span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.livestrong.com/article/249160-the-benefits-of-trampoline-safety-nets/]]</span>//</span>

//<span style="font-style: normal;">6 <span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.urgayifyoulookatcites.com/|www.urgayifyoulookatcites.com]]</span></span>//

7 //<span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://inventorspot.com/util_key]]</span>//

8//<span style="font-style: normal;"> Qtd in George W Bush’s “what I learned when waterboarding timmy”</span>//

9 //Cmoquotes.gov//

10 TrollScience.net

11 //John Mcjohhny Johnny: “why I think you should invest political capitol into giving me what I want”//

12 //<span style="font-style: normal;">“why I am so amazingly cool” Hasnas McCummisky Kagan August 2 2011</span>//


==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]