[[toc]]
=Iraq Aff= 

==1AC---Broken at IHSA State== 

Contention One: The War in Iraq

We will stay beyond 2011 in Iraq
Herriman, 2/6 – Foreign Policy Examiner (Robert, 2/6/11, “Will the remaining US troops pull out of Iraq by Dec. 31, 2011?”, http://www.examiner.com/foreign-policy-in-national/will-the-remaining-us-troops-pull-out-of-iraq-by-dec-31-2011, KONTOPOULOS)
Will the remaining US troops...year missions in Iraq. I think the answer is becoming increasingly clear; we are being prepped for a much longer stay in Iraq.

Contention Two: The Heat is On…

Iraq shot U.S. credibility
Miller, 10 – Public Policy Scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars (Aaron David, 2/3/10, “The End of Diplomacy?”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/03/the_end_of_diplomacy?page=full, KONTOPOULOS)
Back in the day...inability to organize its own house at home.

The plan solves
Wehrey, 10 – Senior Policy Analyst at RAND (Dassa Kaye, 5/24/10, “The Iraq Effect, The Middle East After the Iraq War”, RAND, p. 50-55, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
Regional concerns related to growing Iranian influence...in Iraq]” (‘Aloush, 2007).

Our solvency claims are reverse casual—staying forever destroys U.S. credibility—withdrawing boosts it
Martel, 09 – Professor of International Relations at Tufts University (William 7/1/09, “Reprinted from USA Today”, http://fletcher.tufts.edu/news/2009/op-eds/Martel_July1.shtml, KONTOPOULOS)
Sticking to deadlines boosts U.S. credibility...catastrophe carries great strategic risks.

And, there’s only a risk of aff solvency—Iraq shattered US image abroad
Jarrar and Leaver, 10 – *Senior Fellow on the Middle East and Iraq Consultant at Peace Action AND **Policy Outreach Director for the Foreign Policy in Focus (*Raed AND **Erik, 3/4/10, “Top US general miss-steps” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/LC04Ak02.html, KONTOPOULOS)
An Obama flip-flop on the timetable...war into their own hands.

Solves warming
Hague, 10 – British Foreign Secretary and Secretary of State (William, 9/27/10, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change”, http://www.cfr.org/energy/russell-c-leffingwell-lecture-diplomacy-climate-change/p23037, KONTOPOULOS)
But I particularly wanted...determine our destiny for us.

Consensus there is rapid human induced warming now—numerous and best studies prove
Richard Rahmstorf, Professor of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University, 2008 (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Chapter 3, “Anthropogenic Climate Change?” p. 42-49)
It is time to turn to statement B: human activities...with which we need to deal.

Positive feedbacks drive irreversible tipping points—only aff solvency claims are true—all their authors are media hype
Foster, 10 – Professor of Sociology at the University of Oregon (John B., December 2010, “Notes from the Editors”, http://www.monthlyreview.org/nfte101201.php, KONTOPOULOS)
***Citing James Hansen—Director of NASA’s Institue for Space Studies and Leading U.S. Climatologist
On October 16, MR editor John Bellamy Foster...trustworthy caretakers in this respect.

Err aff—peer-reviewed studies are the only way to ensure scientific studies are credible—reports by skeptics are not peer-reviewed and shouldn’t be evaluated
Dr. Geoff Davies, Author and Geophysicist at the Australian National University, 6/11/2008 (Science Alert, “Why listen to scientists?”, http://www.sciencealert.com.au/opinions/20081106-17474.html)
Professor Don Aitkin’s recent promotion...being broadly vindicated.

Even if we lose the science debate there’s still an obligation to vote aff
Cass R. Sunstein, Professor in the Department of Political Science and at the Law School of the University of Chicago, 2007 (“Worst-Case Scenarios”, Harvard University Press)
Most worst-case scenarios appear...would otherwise seem justified.

Modeling doesn’t matter
James E. Hansen, head of NASA Goddard Institute and professor of Environmental Sciences, Columbia University, 2008 (Briefing before the Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, US House of Representatives. “Twenty years later: tipping points near on global warming,” http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/TwentyYearsLater_20080623.pdf)
The fossil industry maintains...added to the dividend pool.

Warming causes extinction
Dr. John Brandenberg, Physicist, Dead Mars, Dying Earth, 1999, p. 232-3
The world goes on its merry...with perhaps a few hardy microbes surviving.

There is zero chance of surviving—the earth will explode
Thomas Chalko, Ph. D. and Professor of Geophysics at Mt. Best, 10/30/2004 (http://nujournal.net/core.pdf)
Abstract: The heat generated...integrity to comprehend the danger before the situation becomes irreversible?

Evaluate impacts on reversibility—we can always come back from a nuclear war, but not from global warming
Furio Cerutti, Professor of Political Philosophy at the University of Florence, 2007 (“Global Challenges for Leviathan: A Political Philosophy of Nuclear Weapons and Global Warming.” Lexington Books. p. 31)
The second feature of the impasse is irreversibility...which will be looked into in the last three chapters.

Here’s evidence on that—nuclear war is survivable
Nyquist, 99 (J.R., Defense Analyst, Worldnetdaily.com, May 20, 1999)
I patiently reply to these correspondents...few (if any) fallout casualties.

We also access all their impacts
Lester E. Brown, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., 2008 ( “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”)
In 2004, Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow...under these extreme stresses.

Independently—CO2 fertilization destroys insect biodiversity killing the Tropical Forest
Jonathan Adams, Assistant Professor in Ecology at Rutgers University, and Ning Zeng, associate professor of metereology at University of Maryland and an affiliate at the Earth System Science Interdisciplinary Center, 2007 [Vegetation-Climate Interaction: How Vegetation Makes the Global Environment, p.215]
However, it is important to bear in...and can now push the others out.

Extinction
Takacs, professor of environmental humanities at the Institute for Earth Systems Science and Policy at Cal state, 1996 (David. “The idea of biodiversity: Philosophies of Paradise,” p. 200-201)
So biodiversity keeps the...some time before the end of the next century - not with a bang but a whimper.14

The United States federal government should end United States military presence in Iraq.

==Add-Ons== 

===Economy Add-On=== 

Iraq increases defense spending
Francis, 08 – Media Fellow at the World Economic Forum (Diane, 2008, “Iraq pulls down U.S. economy” http://www.nationalpost.com/opinion/columnists/story.html?id=999e7591-f0af-49f4-bb45-d550623b3001&k=14322, KONTOPOULOS)
But the Iraq war is monstrously expensive...being lowered or contributions raised.

Collapses the economy
Altman and Haas, 10 – *Former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary AND **President of the Council on Foreign Relations (*Roger AND **Richard, 11/1/10, “American Profligacy and American Power,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66778/roger-c-altman-and-richard-n-haass/american-profligacy-and-american-power, KONTOPOULOS)
The U.S. government is incurring debt...coming era of international relations.

Extinction
Bearden, 00 (T.T, Director, Association of Distinguished American Scientists, http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm)
History bears out that desperate nations...the biosphere, at least for many decades.

==Topicality Answers== 
===2AC Combat Troops=== 

We meet
Whitlock, 10 -- German Marshall Fund's 2005 Peter R. Weitz Senior Prize Winner, Writer for the Washington Post (Craig, "Lt. Gen. Lloyd Austin to face different mission when he returns to Iraq as U.S. commander, Washington Post, July 21, 2010, July 21st 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/07/20/AR2010072005596.html?wpisrc=nl_fed, KONTOPOULOS)
By Aug. 31, the U.S. military...and assisting Iraqi security forces.

Counter-interpretation—permanently stationed troops and twelve other cases
Dismukes, 94 – representative of the Center for Naval Analyses to the London staff of the Commander in Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe. (Bradford, “National Security Strategy and Forward Presence: Implicationsfor Acquisition and Use of Forces,” March, http://cna.org/sites/default/files/research/2793019200.pdf)
Overseas presence A principal...Chiefs of Staff in December 1992.

==DA Answers== 
===Obama Good Answers---Political Capital Link=== 

Plan is bipartisan
Schake, 10 – Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution and Associate Professor of International Security Studies at the United States Military (Kori, 6/23/10, “Iraq still needs helping hands, and ours are now tied”, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/Iraq_Withdrawal, KONTOPOULOS)
So to say that Obama's plan...yesterday the same plan of two years ago.

That’s key to the agenda
Christopher W. Hansen, President & CEO, AeA, AeA: Advancing the Business of Technology, 12-12-08, http://www.aeanet.org/GovernmentAffairs/gajl_Obama1208.asp
The Republicans are in...impact on high tech will be considerable.

No link—the plan is passed via persuasion, not bargaining which requires no capital
Smith and Smith, Prof. of comm. at UNC and prof. of politics at Wake Forest, 1994 (Craig Allen and Kathy B., The White House Speaks, p. 3)
The third problem with Neustadt’s...for the sake of compliance.

Increasing the size of the agenda makes it more likely to pass
Jonathon Cohn, 3/11/09 [The New Republic, “The Case for Presidential Multi-Tasking”, http://blogs.tnr.com/tnr/blogs/the_treatment/archive/2009/03/11/the-case-for-presidential-multi-tasking.aspx]
My friend William Galston is not...up huge congressional majorities.

Public likes the plan
Walker, 3/9 (3/9/11, “Two-Thirds of Americans Favor Full Withdrawal from Iraq and Afghanistan”, http://fdlaction.firedoglake.com/2011/03/09/two-thirds-of-americans-favor-full-withdrawal-from-iraq-and-afghanistan/, KONTOPOULOS)
In the context of reducing...percent oppose it.

Key to the agenda
Spitzer, 93 – Prof of Poli Sci, State University of New York [Robert J., President and Congress: Executive Hegemony at the Crossroads of American Government]
An important empirical study...start of an administration. But Ostrom and Simon conclude that a shrewd President can influence public support and that the typical long-term decline in a President’s public standing is by no means inevitable.

Popularity also solves the link
Spitzer, 93 – Prof of Poli Sci, State University of New York [Robert J., President and Congress: Executive Hegemony at the Crossroads of American Government]
The idea that modern Presidents can obtain...with the President’s wishes.

Republicans like the aff
Baker, 09 (Peter, 2/26/09, “Iraq Withdrawal Plan Gains G.O.P. Support”, http://www.nytimes.com/2009/02/27/washington/27troops.html, KONTOPOULOS)
WASHINGTON — President Obama won...supportive, while advocating flexibility to preserve the security gains since President Bush sent more troops two years ago, according to Congressional aides.

Key to the agenda
Zelizer 9 (Julian, Prof Public Affairs @ Princeton, CNN, 1/13)
Obama will have to define himself...the power of polarization on Capitol Hill and establish the groundwork for future compromise.

Winners win
Jonathan Singer, 3/3/09 [Jonathan Singer is an editor of MyDirectDemocracy, a position he has held since November 2005. Singer is a Juris Doctorate candidate at Berkeley Law. “By Expending Capital, Obama Grows His Capital”, http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]
Despite the country's struggling economy...anything from universal healthcare to energy reform to ending the war in Iraq.

Case studies prove pol cap doesn’t matter
Bond and Fleisher, 96 Professor in Political Science - Texas A&M & Professor in Political Science - Fordham 1996 (Jon R. and Richard The President in Legislation)
In sum, the evidence presented...the importance of skills.

Capital can be borrowed – Bush proves
National Journal, 07 1/26/07 lexis
So Tuesday night, he did the only...have to pay it back.

==Warming Answers== 

===AT: CO2 Turn=== 

Even a small rise in global temperature would lead to mass starvation despite CO2 fertilization—the impact is extinction
Strom, 07 – Professor Emeritus of Planetary Sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona (Robert, 2007, Hot House, Google Books, p. 211-216, KONTOPOULOS)
THE future consequences of global warming are the least known aspect of the problem...starvation, and political and economic chaos with all their ramifications for civilization.

We still get all our offense—CO2 fert doesn’t offset the negative consequences of warming
Stern, 07 – Professor Emeritus of Planetary Sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona (Robert, 2007, The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review, Amazon Books, p. 70, KONTOPOULOS)
Carbon dioxide is a basic building...production are reached more often.

===AT: Ice Age Turn=== 

Ice age happens in thousands of years—warming is still bad and there’s no link threshold
AFP, Agence-France Presse, 11/12/2008 (“Earth would be heading to a freeze without CO2 emissions”, http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5jyGeD4x6xxyooCI8A_gn-LLBF_3g)
PARIS (AFP) — Scheduled shifts in Earth's orbit...and other stresses for millions of people.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]