[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Lexington East Asia 1AC== 
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #222222;">1AC plan text</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #222222;"> The United States federal government should end its military presence in South Korea and Japan.</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #222222;"> 1AC China war</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #222222;"> Contention 1 is US-Sino war</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #222222;"> 3 internal links:</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #222222;"> First is sphere of influence:</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #222222;"> As China rises, it will need a regional sphere of influence</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #222222;"> Ivan Eland, 1/18/06 - Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in National Security from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. (The Independent Institute. “Is future conflict with China unavoidable?” <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.independent.org%2Fpdf%2Fworking_papers%2F63_china.pdf|http://www. independent.org/pdf/working_ papers/63_china.pdf]]</span> ) If rapid economic growth does … military strength (short-term power). Military presence obstructs China's sphere, causes nuke war. Ivan Eland, 4/11/05 - Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in National Security from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. (The Independent Institute. “Coexisting with a rising China?”. <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1494|http://www. independent.org/newsroom/ article.asp?id=1494]]</span> ) Unfortunately, in international relations, talk … war or even a nuclear conflagration. Wtihdrawal solves—forces the US to reevaluate its interests Ivan Eland, 1/18/06 - Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in National Security from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. (The Independent Institute. “Is future conflict with China unavoidable?” <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.independent.org%2Fpdf%2Fworking_papers%2F63_china.pdf|http://www. independent.org/pdf/working_ papers/63_china.pdf]]</span> ) U.S. “vital interests” are currently … imperial bushﬁre war in Iraq. Second is arms race, presence causes it Bandow, 08 – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812|http://www. nationalinterest.org/Article. aspx?id=17812]]</span>, JMP) Still, does an American presence … today’s outmoded twentieth-century alliance. War and relations collapse Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 06 [Michael, “Containing China: The US's real objective”,<span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html|http://www.atimes. com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]]</span> ] Accompanying all these diplomatic initiatives … no victors from such a conflagration. China war goes global and nuclear Hunkovic, 09 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.lamp-method.org%2FeCommons%2FHunkovic.pdf|http://www.lamp- method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic. pdf]]</span>] A war between China, Taiwan … be considered in this study. Even a limited war would cause extinction Takai ‘9, Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/|http://www.upiasia.com/ Security/2009/10/07/us-china_ nuclear_strikes_would_spell_ doomsday/7213/]]</span> [gender paraphrased]) What would happen if China … heeding by nuclear hard-liners. First strike fails Bin, Professor of the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua Universit, 06 [Li, “Paper Tiger with Whitened Teeth”, <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.wsichina.org%2Fcs4_5.pdf|http://www.wsichina. org/cs4_5.pdf]]</span>] Rather than exploring why China … risks to the United States. Trade won't solve Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”.<span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.morris.umn.edu%2F~joos%2Fus%2FReadings%2F2_US%2520in%2520NE%2520Asia%2FChina%2520challenge%2520to%2520US%2520hegemony.pdf|http://www.morris. umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_ US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China% 20challenge%20to%20US% 20hegemony.pdf]]</span>) Engagement is a problematic strategy, however, … confront the United States tomorrow. The plan does offshore balancing Doug Bandow, 6/3/06 (former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, senior fellow at the Cato Institute.<span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20060603db.html|http://search. japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/ eo20060603db.html]]</span> ) But America is not alone. … responsibility for their own defense. That shifts the burden to allies and long range capabilities which mangage China more effectively but prevent war Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”.<span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.morris.umn.edu%2F~joos%2Fus%2FReadings%2F2_US%2520in%2520NE%2520Asia%2FChina%2520challenge%2520to%2520US%2520hegemony.pdf|http://www.morris. umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_ US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China% 20challenge%20to%20US% 20hegemony.pdf]]</span>) Similarly, at an October 2007 conference … by engaging in security competitions. Independently, security tension between the US and China causes nuclear wars across the globe Conable and Lampton 93 – Chair; and … exacerbate the dilemmas facing Washington. China's rise inevitable—growth rate differentials and structural pressures Christopher Layne, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute and Mary Julia and George R. Jordan Professorship of International Affairs at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service . 2004. (The Asia-Pacific: A Region in Transition. <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.apcss.org%2FPublications%2FEdited%2520Volumes%2FRegionalFinal%2520chapters%2FChapter5Layne.pdf|http://www.apcss. org/Publications/Edited% 20Volumes/RegionalFinal% 20chapters/Chapter5Layne.pdf]]</span>. p 56) Growth rate differentials, however, are … be exploited by the hegemon. Deterrence fails—defense is easier than offense Bandow, 09 – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP) So Washington should exhibit humility … other's economic and geopolitical ambitions. 1AC Regionalism Contention 2 is regionalism Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a … motivate sustainable regional security cooperation Carpenter and Bandow 4 - * Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND ** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR The security treaties with the … central and west-central Pacific. Bilateral alliances trade off with a more multilateral structure. Empirically proven. Deepak Nair, Research Associate at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. 2008. (Contemporary Southeast Asia Vol. 31, No. 1. pg 124 <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.accessmylibrary.com/article-1G1-198805524/regionalism-asia-pacificeast-asia.html|http://www.accessmylibrary. com/article-1G1-198805524/ regionalism-asia-pacificeast- asia.html]]</span>. ) The second related factor that … deepened with Singapore and India." [continues on page 129] As highlighted in this article, … future'" is not entirely tenable.'^ East Asia is on brink of war—only regional solutions solve instability Feng 5/10/10 [Zhu, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, has served as research fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “AN EMERGING TREND IN EAST ASIA: MILITARY BUDGET INCREASES AND THEIR IMPACT”, May 10, 2010, <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia|http://www.fpif.org/ articles/an_emerging_trend_in_ east_asia]]</span>] If it is not yet … every country in the region. Regionalism prevents conflict escalation and nuclear war—bilateralism fails Swanstrom 5 [Niklas, *Program Director of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program. He is also editor for the China-Eurasia Forum Quarterly. He holds a Ph.D. and a Licentiate degree from Uppsala University and a MALD degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, USA. Dr. Swanström's specialization is conflict management, security issues, and negotiations in Central and Northeast Asia, as well as Chinese foreign policy, “CONFLICT PREVENTION AND CONFLICT MANAGEMENT IN NORTHEAST ASIA”, 2005, <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.isdp.eu%2Fimages%2Fstories%2Fisdp-main-pdf%2F2005_swanstrom-ed_book_conflict-prevention-and-conflict-management.pdf|http://www.isdp.eu/ images/stories/isdp-main-pdf/ 2005_swanstrom-ed_book_ conflict-prevention-and- conflict-management.pdf]]</span>] After the end of the … any conclusions can be drawn. Independently, presence causes a moral backlash and provocations that crush alliances and cause war Johnson ‘01 [Chalmers, Ph. D Political Science UC Berkley, Professor of Emeritus University of San Diego, Former CIA Consultant, “Time to Bring the Troops Home”, 5/14, <span style="background-color: initial; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #354258; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.thenation.com/article/time-bring-troops-home|http://www.thenation. com/article/time-bring-troops- home]]</span>] In lieu of concrete security … satellites did in Eastern Europe. Extinction Jonathan S. Landay (staff) March 10 2000 “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts:, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, l/n WASHINGTON _ The 3,700-mile arc that … , according to the Commerce Department. Defensive realism is true—proves our aff, answers your disads, and mitigates your critiques Taliaferro, '1—Associate Professor of Political Science at Tufts University (Jeffrey W. Taliaferro. International Security, Vol. 25, No. 3 (Winter, 2000-2001). “Security Seeking under Anarchy: Defensive Realism Revisited”. JSTOR. pp 136) ASSUMPTION 1: THE INTRACTABILITY OF THE … anticipated high costs and risks of</span>


==BF 1AC== 

Took out defensive realism card added this card on china war:


China's not a threat
Fravel 10 (M Taylor, Department of Political Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “International Relations Theory and China’s Rise: Assessing China’s Potential for Territorial Expansion,” International Studies Review, Vol 12, Issue 4, Wiley) 
A third reason to focus … region, not physical control (Kang 2007).




And this card on regionalism:


Regionalism makes conflict impossible
Zhongying 4 [Pang, PhD in international politics @ Peking University, Professor of International Studies and director of the Institute of Global Studies @ Nankai University, “CRISIS AND TRANSFORMATION: NEW REGIONALISM AND EAST ASIA’S REGIONAL COOPERATION”, International Review, Spring 2004, volume 34, http://irchina.org/en/xueren/china/view.asp?id=865]

The “security regionalism” in this … crisis as far as possible.




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]