[[toc]]
==TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS== 

===1ac 2012 advantage=== 

We also read an abortion impact but I can't find it on my computer, ask Daniel.

Afghan Quagmire ends Obama’s chances because it alienates his base – but withdrawal creates economic spin to get him re-elected 
Hayden 4/26 (Tom Hayden, “Obama's Decisions on Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan Will Determine Re-Election Chances,” 4/26/11) http://www.thenation.com/print/article/160194/obama-close-decisions-afghanistan-iraq-pakistan-and-2012-re-election-campaign

The president is on the cusp of a decision … in the center of quagmires he has created

Failure to dilute the Right wing power will collapse foreign policy-impacts are climate, Russia, china, prolif, and Latin America
Jim Lobe 10, 11-8-2010, Obama foreign policy likely to face Republican challenges, online)

While foreign policy issues … multilateralism and engagement," he added. 

China relations solve nuclear war
Conable and Lampton 93 (Barber B., President Emeritus – World Bank and David, President – National Committee, “China: The Coming Power”, Foreign Affairs, December / January, Lexis)

Regionally American interests are … attaches to building positive ties to the P.R.C.

Russia relations stop conflict with Russia – nuclear war
Cohen 2000 - professor of Russian studies at New York University (Stephen, Failed Crusade, p. 196-205)

These assurances are manifestly untrue and, coming … will reap the benefits or pay the price. 

Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction 
Sify 2010 – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html, WEA)

The findings of the comprehensive report: 'The impact of … These findings were published in Science 

Prolif causes extinction
Arbatov, 04 (Alexei, Corresponding Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and Director of the Center of International Security, Institute of the World Economy and International Relations, Russian Academy of Sciences, 4/13/2004. “Horizontal Proliferation: New Challenges”, Russia in Global Affairs, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/7/531.html)

As the situation stands, further nuclear … risk factors will overlap.

GOP win causes Iran strikes
Jonathan Curiel 10, Prof of Journalism @ UCLA, 7-28-2010, “What just might happen if Obama loses in 2012,”http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:AIlWa6eGDQcJ:trueslant.com/jonathancuriel/2010/07/28/what-just-might-happen-if-obama-loses-in-2012/+If+Obama+losses+2012&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a 
** War in Iran: The Republicans’ ascension marks the return of chickenhawk diplomacy. Instead of the Obama administration’s reasoned approach to Iran, the new administration relies on all-or-nothing antagonism, leading to the third Gulf War in two decades. What ensues are thousands of new military deaths, a dangerously destabilized Middle East, and an oil crisis that shocks Western economies for years. As in Afghanistan and Iraq, the U.S. tries to shepherd in a friendlier government, but now all three countries – connected geographically, religiously and historically – become the world’s leading front for insurgency against the United States.

Strikes cause Middle East and oil shocks
Petras 12/15/05 (James, former Professor of Sociology at Binghamton University, "Israel's War with Iran: The Coming Mid East Conflagration Or Israel Bombs Iran: The US Suffers the Consequences," http://www.thestruggle.org/petras.htm)

The US then would attempt to pressure Russia and … provoking a major world recession or worse.

Nuclear Wars
Primakov, 9 [September, Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”] 

The Middle East conflict is unparalleled in … completely rule out such a possibility.

Oil shocks risk extinction 
Roberts 04 (Paul, Regular Contributor to Harpers and NYT Magazine, “The End of Oil: On The Edge of a Perilous New World”, p. 93-94)

The obsessive focus on oil is hardly … simple survival than terrorism or even war.

Republican victory in 2012 means the end of health care reform 
Sloane 1/2/11 (Harvey, a physician, was mayor of Louisville from 1973-77 and 1982-86, and he served as Jefferson County Judge/Executive from 1986-90, "Health care reform worth defending," http://www.courier-journal.com/print/article/20110102/OPINION04/301020041/Harvey-Sloane-Health-care-reform-worth-defending) 

Health care reform is worth … will have to win the presidency.

Solves Bioterror
Halstead 1. “Lack of Health Care For All Creates U.S. Security Risk” The New America Foundation. Ted Halstead, New America’s founder, served as the institution’s first president and CEO from its inception in 1999 until September, 2007. He is a frequent public speaker and media commentator, having appeared as a guest on Nightline, ABC’s World News Tonight, CNN, CNBC, C-SPAN, and PBS. He has published numerous articles in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Financial Times, The Atlantic Monthly, Los Angeles Times, and The Harvard Business Review. He is co-author with Michael Lind of The Radical Center: The Future of American Politics (Doubleday, 2001), and editor of The Real State of the Union (Basic Books, 2004). Previously, Mr. Halstead was executive director of Redefining Progress, another public policy institute that he founded to promote new approaches to economic and environmental policy. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Dartmouth College, and received his Master’s degree from Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. He was selected as a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. (http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2001/lack_of_health_care_for_all_creates_u_s_security_risk)

From President Bush on down, our leaders are finally … a threat to the security of all Americans.

Extinction
Ochs 02 – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]

Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered … patriotism is the highest of all crimes.

===1ac West Africa advantage=== 

West Africa is falling towards instability causing war, refugee flows, failed states, and instability
Dickingson 3/11 (Elizabeth Dickingson, “West Africa Lurches Toward War,” 3/11/11) http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/03/11/west_africa_lurches_toward_war?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full

MONROVIA, Liberia — Along a muddy border between the Ivory Coast and Liberia, Ivorian refugees pack into a small wooden boat that resembles a giant, square fruit crate. The raft fills quickly and just as quickly departs directly across the river, where a Liberian immigration officer waits to direct them on the opposite bank. The new arrivals carry nothing but the clothes they are wearing and any small plastic bags they can manage. Once on the Liberian side, they are herded into long lines and processing queues. Many will sleep outside; some will take shelter with ethnic kin, in local villages, who are themselves often struggling to survive.
Armed conflict from the Ivory Coast is spilling over its fluid western border with Liberia. And the result is the worst humanitarian crisis that West Africa has faced since 2003, when the wars ravishing Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea, and the Ivory Coast finally wound down.
What's unfolding now in West Africa are the warning signs of another all-out war. Off and on for almost two decades, from 1989 to 2004, rebels roamed the region, pillaging and attacking villages and displacing millions. In Sierra Leone, rebel armies routinely hacked off limbs and hands to deprive villagers of their economic potential -- their physical ability to farm. In Liberia, child soldiers, drugged and armed with old Kalashnikovs, terrorized the countryside. Tens of thousands of U.N. peacekeepers have worked for years to stitch the region back together.
The scene today, however, is darkly familiar. Elements of the old wars are surfacing again: Armed fighters are suddenly trying to cross the border from Ivory Coast into Liberia, Liberian ex-combatants are being lured to fight in the Ivory Coast, and almost half a million have been uprooted from their homes in both Liberia and the Ivory Coast, plunging the region into humanitarian crisis. Tension throughout the region is reaching a boiling point at a time when Liberia was already warily preparing for a national election. War is in the air.
The trigger came in November, when Ivory Coast's incumbent president, Laurent Gbagbo, refused to step down after losing an internationally certified election. Although international pressure has isolated Gbagbo diplomatically, he retains strong local support -- about 50 percent of the vote and the country's territory. He and his opponent, Alassane Ouattara, are each backed by loyal armed forces, which were supposed to have integrated after the war. But instead, Gbagbo's army has maintained control over the south while Ouattara's rebels, the Forces Nouvelles, have guarded the north. In early January, they started fighting one another again in Abobo, a suburb of the capital Abidjan, and in recent days all along the border with Liberia.
The result has been growing chaos on the Liberian side of the border, where the flow of refugees increased by 90 percent in February. In just the last two weeks, the number of people who have entered Liberia from the Ivory Coast has jumped from 30,000 to 100,000. In the Ivory Coast, at least 200,000 have fled their homes in Abidjan, bringing the total number of displaced in the country to around 370,000. In thecountry's interior, the United Nations has very limited access to them. Meanwhile, U.N. agencies in the Liberian capital of Monrovia say they have contingency plans for housing as many as 250,000 refugees.
But civilians aren't the only ones crossing the border. The U.N.'s top envoy in Liberia, Ellen Margaret Loj, confirmed that armed Ivorian fighters from both sides of the emerging conflict have recently attempted to enter the country. "Some [were] trying apparently to use Liberia as a transit to re-enter into Cote d'Ivoire, others to come in and see if there were any defected fighters among the refugees," she told me on March 9.
The U.N. mission in Liberia, UNMIL, has so far turned those combatants away -- at least at formal border crossings. But along an unmanned, largely forested border that stretches across four Liberian counties, neither the United Nations nor the local military and police can be everywhere. Many fear that Liberia's hard-earned disarmament over the past several years may be put into jeopardy, Loj said. "The worry both on my side but certainly even more so on the government side is that people will come in with weapons from Cote d'Ivoire."
In recent days, the number of men and boys among the refugee flows, which were originally dominated by women and children, has skyrocketed in what U.N. officials say is a sign of how intense the fighting has become. Sulaiman Momodu, the local spokesman for UNHCR, the U.N. relief agency, told me on March 9 that many of these young men left for fear of being conscripted into pro- or anti-Gbagbo forces. Others, Momodu said, had seen fighting directly or heard gunfire. For now, Ouattara's troops are controlling the Ivorian side of the border with Liberia, but refugees from both political affiliations are literally running for their lives.
Meanwhile, some Liberians are said to be going in the other direction. According to local radio reports and secondhand accounts, former combatants and other jobless young men are heading across the border to fight, lured by the promise of cold, hard cash. UNMIL can't confirm those rumors, Loj told me, "but I'm sure there's some truth to them." Certainly, money could lure plenty of recruits here in Liberia, where the vast majority are not formally employed, particularly in rural areas. During its disarmament program, the U.N. partnered with NGOs and the government to offer ex-combatants vocational training, but many are still without work. Former soldiers are jobless, too, ever since the army -- tainted by the atrocities it committed during the decade and a half of fighting -- was disbanded after the war.
The newly recruited and trained security forces that replaced them are still struggling to maintain order. There are about 4,000 Liberian police, for example, but they don't yet operate independently, and their UNMIL trainers readily admit that outside Monrovia, police operations are even more remedial. In response to the violence and the refugee situation, UNMIL has redeployed some forces to the border, and four units of armed policemen (most police in Liberia are not armed) have been moved there as well.
Relief workers seem overwhelmed by the burgeoning crisis. The U.N. refugee agency originally requested funds for the operation based on a maximum refugee population of 50,000 -- only half of the number present in Liberia's border region now. Of the nearly $19 million that the U.N. says it needs for the operation to function, only 10 percent of that -- $1.9 million -- is in hand. "We are losing the battle on the CNN effect. [In Libya,] geopolitical interests are more acute," says Isabel Crowley, UNICEF country director in Liberia, who expressed frustration that the situation in the Ivory Coast has failed to capture headlines. "If we don't get funds, people are going to start to die."
Supplies of food and water are running desperately low. At the moment, the U.N. World Food program has enough provisions to feed some 72,000 people for 15 days at the rate of one meal per person per day; new supplies won't arrive until April 1. As for water, U.N. agencies and humanitarian organizations say they can meet the emergency needs of about 30,000 people and long-term needs of just 8,000. Worse yet, the rainy season will begin in a matter of months, making roads inaccessible and raising transportation costs.
UNHCR has constructed one refugee camp, but only about 650 refugees have relocated there. Most of the refugees in Liberia are still close to the border, many camping outside or finding temporary shelter in schools or churches, says Crowley. Others are being taken into the homes of local Liberians, many of whom are the same ethnicity.
The welcome wears out fast, however. "We already have reports of tension between the refugee community and the host community," Loj reports. "You can be generous, but only so long when you have nothing to share, and then you start bickering and arguing, and we are watching that very carefully because it has the potential of threatening the security situation." Local radio stations are a mouthpiece for those fears, as talk shows feature local residents discussing their anxieties that incoming refugees will take scarce resources or jobs.
In Liberia, all this is taking place against the backdrop of an upcoming presidential election in October. The incumbent, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Africa's first elected female leader and a darling of international donors, has significant support, but her victory is far from a done deal. "If you analyze this, the situation in Cote d'Ivoire is a result of elections, disputed elections," Momodu of UNHCR said. "So as Liberia heads toward elections, there is a genuine fear in the population that what has happened in Cote d'Ivoire could also happen here."
Things in the Ivory Coast are likely to get worse before they get better. On March 10, Gbagbo rejected an African Union deal that would have created a unity government including both him and Ouattara, but with Ouattara as the official president. Other pressure on Gbagbo to resign has come to naught. Threats from the regional West African economic community, ECOWAS, to use force if necessary to remove Gbagbo have dimmed as regional giant Nigeria prepares for its own tricky elections in April. The one hope of the international community has been that economic sanctions could cripple Gbagbo's ability to pay his loyal military and civil service, come hell or high water. But he still seems to have cash.

African escalation goes nuclear
Deutsch, 2002 (Jeffrey, PhD from George Mason University, The Rabid Tiger Newsletter, Vol. II, No. 9, 11/18, http://www.rabidtigers.com/rtn/newsletterv2n9.html)

The Rabid Tiger Project believes that a nuclear war is most likely to start in Africa. Civil wars in the Congo (the country formerly known as Zaire), Rwanda, Somalia and Sierra Leone, and domestic instability in Zimbabwe, Sudan and other countries, as well as occasional brushfire and other wars (thanks in part to "national" borders that cut across tribal ones) turn into a really nasty stew. We've got all too many rabid tigers and potential rabid tigers, who are willing to push the button rather than risk being seen as wishy-washy in the face of a mortal threat and overthrown. Geopolitically speaking, Africa is open range. Very few countries in Africa are beholden to any particular power. South Africa is a major exception in this respect - not to mention in that she also probably already has the Bomb. Thus, outside powers can more easily find client states there than, say, in Europe where the political lines have long since been drawn, or Asia where many of the countries (China, India, Japan) are powers unto themselves and don't need any "help," thank you. Thus, an African war can attract outside involvement very quickly. Of course, a proxy war alone may not induce the Great Powers to fight each other. But an African nuclear strike can ignite a much broader conflagration, if the other powers are interested in a fight. Certainly, such a strike would in the first place have been facilitated by outside help - financial, scientific, engineering, etc. Africa is an ocean of troubled waters, and some people love to go fishing.

Failed states and refugee flows cause WMD use and epidemic circulation
African Studies Centre et al 2003 (The Transnational Institute, The Center of Social Studies, Coimbra University, and The Peace Research Center – CIP-FUHEM, “Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” December, found at: http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf)

In the malign scenario of global developments the number of collapsed states would grow significantly. This would mean that several more countries in the world could not be held to account for respecting international agreements in various fields, be it commercial transactions, debt repayment, the possession and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the use of the national territory for criminal or terrorist activities. The increase in failed states would immediately lead to an increase in international migration, which could have a knock-on effect, first in neighbouring countries which, having similar politico-economic structures, could suffer increased destabilization and collapse as well. Developments in West Africa during the last decade may serve as an example. Increased international migration would, secondly, have serious implications for the Western world. In Europe it would put social relations between the population and immigrant communities under further pressure, polarizing politics. An increase in collapsed states would also endanger the security of Western states and societies. Health conditions could deteriorate as contagious diseases like Ebola or Sars would spread because of a lack of measures taken in collapsed areas. Weapons of mass destruction could come into the hands of various sorts of political entities, be they terrorist groups, political factions in control of part of a collapsed state or an aggressive political elite still in control of a national territory and intent on expansion. Not only North Korea springs to mind; one could very well imagine such states in (North) Africa. Since the multilateral system of control of such weapons would have ended in part because of the decision of the United States to try and check their spread through unilateral action - a system that would inherently be more unstable than a multilateral, negotiated regime - one could be faced with an arms race that would sooner or later result in the actual use of these weapons. In the malign scenario, relations between the US and Europe would also further deteriorate, in questions of a military nature as well as trade relations, thus undercutting any possible consensus on stemming the growth of collapsed states and the introduction of stable multilateral regimes towards matters like terrorism, nuclear weapons and international migration. Disagreement is already rife on a host of issues in these fields. At worst, even the Western members of the Westphalian system - especially those bordering on countries in the former Third World, i.e. the European states - could be faced with direct attacks on their national security. 

Disease = extinction
Yu 2009 (5/22, Victoria, Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science, "Human extinction: the uncertainty of our fate", http://dujs.dartmouth.edu/spring-2009/human-extinction-the-uncertainty-of-our-fate)

A pandemic will kill off all humans.
In the past, humans have indeed fallen victim to viruses. Perhaps the best-known case was the bubonic plague that killed up to one third of the European population in the mid-14th century (7). While vaccines have been developed for the plague and some other infectious diseases, new viral strains are constantly emerging — a process that maintains the possibility of a pandemic-facilitated human extinction.
Some surveyed students mentioned AIDS as a potential pandemic-causing virus. It is true that scientists have been unable thus far to find a sustainable cure for AIDS, mainly due to HIV’s rapid and constant evolution. Specifically, two factors account for the virus’s abnormally high mutation rate: 1. HIV’s use of reverse transcriptase, which does not have a proof-reading mechanism, and 2. the lack of an error-correction mechanism in HIV DNA polymerase (8). Luckily, though, there are certain characteristics of HIV that make it a poor candidate for a large-scale global infection: HIV can lie dormant in the human body for years without manifesting itself, and AIDS itself does not kill directly, but rather through the weakening of the immune system. 
However, for more easily transmitted viruses such as influenza, the evolution of new strains could prove far more consequential. The simultaneous occurrence of antigenic drift (point mutations that lead to new strains) and antigenic shift (the inter-species transfer of disease) in the influenza virus could produce a new version of influenza for which scientists may not immediately find a cure. Since influenza can spread quickly, this lag time could potentially lead to a “global influenza pandemic,” according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (9). The most recent scare of this variety came in 1918 when bird flu managed to kill over 50 million people around the world in what is sometimes referred to as the Spanish flu pandemic. Perhaps even more frightening is the fact that only 25 mutations were required to convert the original viral strain — which could only infect birds — into a human-viable strain (10).

Afghanistan trades off with West African Security, key to oil supply stability, preventing terrorism
Raidt et al. 11/30 (John Raidt, Director and Senior Fellow on the Horizon Project, Kristen E. Smith, Assistance Director of Michael S. Ansari Africa Center, Nancy J. Walker, Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Michael S. Ansari Africa Center, The Atlantic Council, “Advancing U.S., African, and Global Interests: Security and Stability in the West Africa Maritime Domain,”

The United States possesses clear and compelling national interests in West Africa, particularly in the region’s maritime domain. These vital security, economic, and humanitarian interests, including reliable long-term access to energy, shared largely by the African people and the international community, are at grave risk from regional instability and the increasing potential for state failures in an economically and politically distressed area of over 250 million people.
In cooperation with our allies, America must work harder, smarter, and better to help responsible West African leaders counter the rampant exploitation of the region’s ungoverned waters by a host of illicit actors, including terrorists, illicit traffickers of drugs, humans, arms and other contraband, oil thieves, pirates, poachers, and polluters. The continued failure to counter these devastating threats urgently, energetically, and proactively—particularly through the development of sustainable West African will, capability, and capacity to govern and enforce the rule of law effectively—increases the likelihood that in the near future the United States, Africa, and the international community will be required to deal with far greater, costlier, and more intractable challenges to our shared security and development objectives.
Priority U.S. interests in West African maritime security and its land based dimensions are—
An adequately secure maritime domain that does not provide space for transnational terrorist and criminal organizations to operate or find safe haven The area’s strategic location, lack of governance, defi cient rule of law, glut of corrupt officials, porous borders, insurgent environment, and expansive, largely un-policed maritime domain, are attracting international terrorists, transnational drug cartels, and other criminal elements and enterprises (including large scale polluters and poachers). In particular, massive oil theft and narcotics trafficking abetted by maritime insecurity are generating huge illegal fi nancial fl ows fueling widespread criminality and corruption with a global reach. Highly troubled economic and political conditions and regional demographic trends are creating a fertile environment where illicit groups including acolytes of radical Islam can readily win new adherents, sympathizers, and recruits. Osama bin Laden has called on his followers to make Nigeria a priority. Nigeria, the largest nation on the continent, has a population of 150 million people, 40 percent of whom are under the age of 14. Concerns are growing about the increased potential for radicalization, particularly youth, among the country’s large Muslim population.
The safe, secure, and effi cient fl ow of vessels, cargo, and people bound to or from the United States West African ports, harbors, and shipping lanes are important components of the highly integrated global maritime transportation linked to U.S. and allied ports and traffi c fl ows. While the region’s waters are a major transit route for international commerce, they are plied by a host of criminal actors engaged in operations, including illicit oil tankers, drug runners, armed robbers, illicit waste dumpers, and pirates. The Gulf of Guinea is second only to Somali waters in the number of attacks at sea, and may even exceed it depending on reporting regimes. In general, the region’s port security and maritime law enforcement fail to meet minimum international standards.
The unimpeded flow of oil from the Gulf of Guinea and Security of energy related infrastructure and assets West Africa—in particular the Gulf of Guinea and Nigeria’s delta—is a major source of high quality oil and natural gas for the United States (18 percent and 14 percent of imports, respectively). The region possesses larger deepsea oil reserves than the Persian Gulf. U.S. imports from the area are expected to increase significantly in years to come. Adverse security conditions endanger the longterm reliability of this energy supply, the cost of oil, and the stream of revenue energy development can produce for the benefit of West Africa.
Political development, sustainable economic growth, and enduring stability in the region as a deterrent to state failure, humanitarian crisis, and violent extremism
The potential for state failure and massive migration from West Africa intensifies as the population grows rapidly and economic, political, and living conditions fail to improve significantly. Despite the enormous oil wealth drawn from their country’s waters and a growing GDP, 80 percent of Nigerians live on less than two dollars a day. Good governance, political development and sustainable economic growth are vital for deterring terrorist and criminal proliferation, securing the area’s ports, harbors, and territorial waters, and to ensuring reliable access to oil. Nigeria and Emerging Democracies. Achieving greater security and stability in West Africa and advancing the interests listed above will depend highly on the longterm viability and stability of Nigeria and other emerging democracies in the region as partners and allies of the United States.
With its sizeable population, vast gas and oil reserves, vibrant entrepreneurship, leadership role in Africa and regional organizations, plus a history of robust military intervention to secure peace in West Africa, Nigeria is the closest to what the area can call a regional hegemon. The critical question is what kind of leader and influence Nigeria will become. Nigeria can be an exporter of criminality and instability, a home to multiple insurgencies, reservoir of ethnic and religious conflict, a hotbed of Islamist radicalization, and a poor influence on the region’s emerging democracies and fragile post-conflict states; or, with the robust support and partnership of the United States and the international community, it can deepen its democracy, combat official corruption to acceptable levels, deepen prosperity, and broaden the numbers with access to it. The latter course is essential if U.S. interests, including long-term access to oil, are to be protected; the people of West Africa are to enjoy a better future; and the international community is to benefit from greater levels of stability in a strategically important area of the world. Given the enormous stakes, enhancing the prospects for Nigeria and other emerging nations in West Africa, including through greater maritime security, must be a higher priority for the United States and our partners. Regional Insecurity and the Maritime Component. Central to West Africa’s high levels of insecurity and instability is the criminal exploitation of its expansive, largely ungoverned maritime domain, particularly in the form of massive oil theft and an enormous intercontinental drug trade funneling through the region much of it by sea. Revenue and power derived from these illicit activities finances a robust arms trade that facilitates political and criminal violence and provides a deep purse for official graft that is undermining regional development and eroding public order.
These conditions combined with ineffective governance, a dearth of official integrity, and, in many cases, an absence of political will for reform are attracting lethal international actors including Al Qaeda affiliates such as Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), Hamas, Hezbollah, and Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), each of which is present and active in the region.
FARC and other South American drug cartels that are hostile to the U.S. and cause much death and destruction in the Western Hemisphere continue to generate billions of dollars a year trafficking drugs to and through West Africa filling their coffers for trouble making in the Americas. Recent arrests and other evidence suggest that dangerous relationships and alliances may be forming between the cartels and Middle Eastern terrorist groups through the development of a West African connection.
Poor governance, inadequate rule of law, widespread official corruption, and public dissatisfaction in West Africa are attracting criminal, militant, and terrorist organizations
Revenue from massive oil theft and drug trafficking funds a thriving illicit arms trade, political graft, and widespread criminal operations Troubling conditions and adverse trends bearing on public order, economic development, and stability in West Africa will place U.S. security and long-term access to energy at risk
The opportune conditions that draw terrorist groups and drug cartels to West Africa attract other malign actors that exploit the maritime domain for illegal purposes including trafficking, piracy, fish poaching, and illegal waste dumping. The UN reports that more than 200,000 children a year are trafficked though West and Central Africa, and approximately 5,000 women are illegally transported, including by sea. Cigarette smuggling generates in excess of $ 5 million—greater than the yearly GDP of some West African countries. Pervasive large scale fish poaching by fleets from Europe and Asia is depriving the people of the region of an important source of food and revenue. Unregulated ocean dumping of solid, toxic, and electronic waste and oil is endangering the health and sustainability of the marine environment on which a large segment of the local population depends for subsistence.
These illegal activities fostered by poor governance, enabled by poor law enforcement, and supported by the complicity, intimidation, or indifference of high-level officials are depriving the people of African wealth and resources critical to their economic and political development, fomenting public dissatisfaction, and fueling insurgency and insecurity to the detriment of West Africa, the U.S. and the international community.
Despite the troubling conditions and sizeable challenges before us, the area’s lucrative resources, enormous human capital, rich cultural diversity, and expanding islands of official integrity hold important potential and offer the opportunity to transform a gathering crisis into a global success story. Pursuing our strategic interests more purposefully and vigorously is imperative. We must either reinforce the region’s strengths and partner effectively to stabilize it or soon deal with crises that have metastasized into graver, long-term threats.
Strategic Objectives. Seizing this opportunity will require a well-defined set of U.S., African, and international goals to promote security and enforce rule of law in the maritime domain and its land based dimensions including: Preventing the use of West African waters, ports, and harbors by international terrorists and criminal enterprises as a base of operations, safe haven, and locus of fundraising activity (such as selling stolen oil, etc.) Degrading the operational capability of terrorist and criminal organizations exploiting the area. Protecting the safety, security, and integrity of vessels and cargo embarking from or transiting through West African waters and ports bound directly or indirectly for the United States Protecting the flow of oil and security of related infrastructure in West African waters Protecting African waters from poaching and pollution Addressing the fundamental causes of insecurity— including shortfalls in economic, political, and human development Sustainable security in the region will require an emphasis on initiatives that are African supported and led. Accordingly, the primary strategic objectives in support of our vital national interests should be: To foster the will of West African nations and their international institutions to provide for the safety, security, and rule of law in the region’s maritime domain, including ports, harbors, and territorial waters, as a vital component of overall economic, political, and social development To help the region develop, deploy, and sustain the capabilities and capacity to self sufficiently provide for safety, security, and rule of law in the maritime domain (including its land-based dimensions) To help counter external threats contributing to insecurity in West Africa and threats emanating from the region into the global commons and beyond Strategic Challenges. Among the impediments to achieving our objectives are considerable deficiencies in political “will,” regional governmental “capability/capacity,” and international assistance— Will. Many West African governments rank among the world’s worst in terms of corruption and governance. Efforts to improve conditions must seek to overcome the deeply rooted incentives supporting criminality and take into account the tenacity of certain leaders and high officials who have enormous personal, financial and political stakes in criminal activity. It will also require a commitment to improving the transparency and quality of governance for the people of the region. Moreover, addressing maritime insecurity will require a change in thinking among the region’s security leaders who, traditionally, have been more concerned with ground forces to counter land-based security threats viewed as a greater risk to ruling regimes than dangers arising in the their waters. Capability and Capacity. The West African maritime domain is a vast space—the Gulf of Guinea alone is over 500,000 square miles—and the region’s maritime security services and capability to enforce the rule of law on its waters is grossly deficient. Among the capabilities that must be developed and sustained to better secure the West African waters are: Intelligence and domain presence and awareness (deterrence and detection). Physical and electronic surveillance of West African waters and intelligence on criminal networks operating in the domain is sorely lacking. Emergency response to protect lives and property (response). African maritime services are small, ill equipped, and neglected in resources, prestige, and priority. Rule of law (enforcement). West African police/security, judicial, and correctional institutions are riddled with abuse and corruption and in many cases dysfunctional. U.S. and International Assistance. The United States and its allies currently sponsor an alphabet soup of programs to help develop West African “will and skill” through naval presence, security sector technical assistance, training, and equipment donation to the region’s governments and their security services. For the most part, the interagency effort is uncoordinated, unfocused, under resourced, and not yet hitting the mark. U.S. donations of vessels and other security assistance initiatives appear to be aimed mainly at preserving relationships, ensuring political access in the region, and meeting other diplomatic requirements rather than organized as part of a holistic, goal-based strategy to achieve defined and measurable improvements in regional security and stability. On the whole, the U.S. effort lacks coherence, remains un-led by an interagency coordinating body, unguided by an overarching strategic plan and priorities, and un-integrated with allies and other stakeholders to produce economies of effort. Many of the West African security assistance programs administered by other countries suffer from the same shortcomings as U.S. efforts with respect to lack of planning, coordination, prioritization, and holistic, goal-oriented approach. Understanding the economic and political importance of West Africa, China and other emerging nations are increasingly present and active in West and Central Africa and aggressively providing financial assistance and infrastructure development in the hope that better relations from soft power will expand its influence and access to the area’s resources. These nations will either be part of a fulcrum for transformation or simply serve as the alternative market for West African regimes more interested in oil sales than security and reform. The U.S. and allies must work diplomatically to help China and other nations engaged in the region determine that promoting stability and its enablers is in their long-term interest as much as West Africa’s and ours. Recommendations. Success in building West African “will and skill” requires the highest level of regional cooperation and a closer partnership between African nations, the United States, allies, and other stakeholders, including the private sector, non-government institutions, and civil society organizations. In terms of U.S. policy it means better organizing, targeting, and implementing more effective, holistic, security sector reform initiatives, and approaches. And it means more vigorous diplomacy and initiative to diminish incentives supporting the status quo, while creating and reinforcing dynamics and conditions that favor reform. Accordingly, this report offers four core recommendations:
Better Organize the US Interagency to Achieve Our Strategic Objectives in the Region: To be sure security reform and transformation must be African conceived and led; however, the scope and quality of U.S. and international assistance will be a crucial enabler that could mean the difference between long-term success and failure. Given the stakes, it is imperative that the U.S. interagency be postured and resourced to render efficient and effective assistance to West African nations and regional associations to achieve clear, realistic, and desirable security and development goals. For that reason we recommend the creation of an “interagency policy, strategy, and implementation team” (IPSIT) led by the Department of State and convened under the auspices of the National Security Council to coordinate West African security assistance initiatives, develop strategy, ensure that the effort is sufficiently resourced, and to track and drive progress over time. As part of its charter, the team should be responsible for conducting a holistic, interagency strategic review of West African security, and its maritime component, and produce a strategic plan to advance U.S. security goals and interests in the region. Proof of Concept Initiatives: We recommend that the U.S. establish a comprehensive maritime security assistance pilot (or proof of concept) program in partnership with one or two willing and able West African nations. Under such an initiative the full range of U.S. security assistance and rule of law programs, along with other forms of aid would be coordinated and focused holistically to clear and hold the participating nation’s waters and maritime infrastructure against bad actors and sustain the rule of law. The pilot would serve as a regional proof of concept and a springboard for region-wide cooperation as neighboring countries perceive the tangible benefits, including enhanced national revenue, that can be produced by greater levels of maritime security. Regional Network: Concurrently we recommend that the U.S. fully support the effort of Maritime Organization of West and Central Africa (MOWCA) and its member states to develop and implement a “regional maritime security network.” U.S. and international security assistance efforts, including planning support, asset donation, and training, should be leveraged to bring the network to fruition as swiftly as possible. The network should provide a mechanism for the regional acquisition and sharing of critical maritime security assets that are too expensive for each nation to possess independently. Participating nations would be vested with discrete roles, missions, responsibilities, and areas of expertise to achieve vital efficiencies and economies of scale. The network would include the necessary command and control protocols to ensure region-wide cooperation and be implemented with the goal of producing significant security and developmental benefits for the participating nations and their people. Nigerian and Emerging Nations Partnership: We recommend that the United States energetically utilize the U.S.—Nigeria Binational Commission and other diplomatic tools to help foster Nigeria as anchor for stability and security in the region. The commission should meet regularly and establish a full array of active and expert working groups in the key areas of governance, economic development, security, and rule of law, including a maritime component. These “centerpiece” initiatives should be undertaken in concert with the full array of recommendations set forth in the report, corresponding to the following objectives— Improve U.S. intelligence in the region to better understand the linkages among criminal enterprises, terrorist organizations, and enabling factors; and to gain a more acute comprehension of the scope, objectives, cause/effect and other dynamics of these associations and synergies Organize the U.S. interagency and our partners more effectively to advance shared interests more strategically and comprehensively guided by an overall planning body and a well-crafted strategic plan, rather than through uncoordinated lines of effort delivered in programmatic stovepipes Communicate better with African leaders and publics about U.S. interests, objectives, and intentions Improve the effectiveness of our capacity building programs by focusing resources holistically to achieve measurable security improvements, rather than merely parceling out assistance across the region predominantly to preserve political relationships and ensure access Enhance operational initiatives to boost West African maritime security including the establishment of a joint operations center, information sharing regimes, and other partnerships and asset sharing Energize multilateral diplomatic efforts and private sector engagement, including better integrating the oil industry into efforts to improve maritime security capacity building Engage the NGO and advocacy community to build constituencies of support and public impetus in the region for reform The foregoing objectives could be advanced through the following recommended initiatives: Know More, Understand Better Conduct a National Intelligence Estimate for West Africa Improve human intelligence assets in the region Tap outside resources for broader perspectives and increased understanding of the region Establish an incident-reporting and -tracking database for the West African maritime domain Secure a report by a respected international entity analyzing the cost of West African maritime insecurity to West African governments and their populations, and share the report widely among African governments, regional associations, NGOs, the press, and other influential institutions and opinion leaders Create an assessment tool in the form of a matrix to track and evaluate the performance, capabilities, and requirements of West African nations Organize and Plan Better for Security Establish an interagency policy, strategy, and implementation team (IPSIT) on West African security to develop strategy, ensure the effort is sufficiently resourced, and to track and drive progress Conduct a holistic, interagency strategic review (under the auspices of the IPSIT or other appropriate body) of West African security, and the maritime domain Produce a comprehensive strategic plan to promote West African maritime security Consider appointing an ambassador-at-large or other diplomatic focal point for West Africa Consider appointing a Coast Guard liaison-at-large for the West African region Improve the Coordination and Delivery of Security Assistance Establish a pilot project, with one or two qualified west African nations to implement a comprehensive maritime security development program to serve as a regional proof of concept In coordination with the nation(s)-specific pilot project recommended above, work with MOWCA and its member states to develop a model “regional maritime security network program” including plans for the sharing of critical assets; the assigning of national contributions, roles, and missions; and other means of achieving economies of scale among the region’s coastal nations Establish an interagency Maritime Security Reconstruction Team for deployment to the region Coordinate the various U.S. donation, training, and assistance programs in accordance with the strategic plan recommended above Coordinate international donation, training, and assistance programs tailored to risk-based prioritization of requirements Create a U.S. government clearinghouse to aggregate and display data on programs, personnel, and funding provided for West African security, including the maritime domain Assist regional countries in developing comprehensive national maritime security strategies and implementation plans to help guide the form and scope of U.S. assistance Expand maritime education and training opportunities for West Africans at U.S. training and educational institutions Establish single points of contact within the U.S. government for maritime security assistance Enhance Operational Initiatives to Boost West African Maritime Security Establish an information-sharing system among operators in the maritime domain and key regional and international authorities Increase the availability and usefulness of electronic surveillance and other technology to enhance maritime domain awareness Establish a regional joint operations center under the auspices of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS-CEEAC), MOWCA, or other appropriate regional organization Work with Africans to develop a program using cell phones to target illegal fishing and that engage citizens in a Coast Guard auxiliary Consider broader application of train the trainer initiatives under the African Partnership Station and other capacity building programs Increase the role of the U.S. Coast Guard in Africa Partnership Station programs and other training, advisory, and operational programs Assist countries in writing and strengthening their legal authorities and institutions to prosecute wrongdoing Communicate Better Be clear in messaging about the vital interests, priorities, and intentions of the U.S. government Develop and execute a strategic communications plan for the U.S. government on West African security, including the maritime domain Coordinate message and communications with allies and African partners Energize Diplomatic Efforts and Private Sector Engagement Work with key African partners to push for implementation of security initiatives agreed to by nations that are party to continental, regional, and sub-regional organizations (MOWCA, ECOWAS, ECCAS-CEEAC, African Union, United Nations) Make use of the Nigeria-U.S. Bi-national commission to reinforce Nigeria’s regional and continental responsibilities Work through diplomatic channels to resolve border disputes that have impeded greater levels of regional cooperation in enforcing the rule of law, including in the maritime domain Engage more energetically with African leaders in generating national and regional political will and resources to implement the maritime security pledges of MOWCA and other regional organizations Promote greater transparency regarding how oil revenue is used by African nations Engage in energetic diplomacy with European partners to invigorate efforts to improve West African maritime security by such means as asset donation, training, and African diplomacy Work with the oil industry to determine how it can best support maritime capacity building, such as through special funding and pilot projects, as well as by utilizing energy infrastructure and vessels as sensor platforms or electronic domain awareness systems Work with oil companies to improve infrastructure and environmental protection, and help foster sustainable development in the countries from which they obtain oil Work through diplomatic channels with China and other nations whose engagement in the region is expected to grow to obtain greater levels of cooperation in fostering anticorruption and security in West Africa Work with appropriate institutions to help develop training programs for African journalists to scrutinize the oil industry Reach out to young leaders in the region with training, seminars, visits, scholarships, and other programs to reinforce the elements and modalities of good governance and responsible public administration Engage the NGO and Advocacy Community Better Engage advocacy groups such as (ENOUGH, ONE, International Crisis Group) to promote messaging, communications, and reform Engage the U.S. and African advocacy communities in the policy development process, including the formulation and execution of the strategic plan recommended above Develop “government to government,” “people to people,” and “institution to institution” programs to promote communication and mutual understanding, as well as the sharing of information, best practices, and technical support
Resourcing. Improving the U.S. effort to promote greater levels of West African maritime security is ultimately a function of properly prioritizing and resourcing the effort. The United States is engaged in Iraq and Afghanistan, and within Africa much of the policy attention is focused on Somalia and the Sudan. Moreover, these are fiscally challenging times, and any initiative that demands greater resources is a hard sell. The legitimacy of increasing the national focus, money, and manpower devoted to the West African account must be measured not just by the benefits to be gained with a more vigorous effort but also by the adverse consequences of maintaining the status quo—and both, we argue, are substantial. Of course, such changes in policy must be directed and sustained at the highest levels of our government. Several points should be taken into consideration in marshaling the necessary resources

Oil shocks cause extinction
Roberts 04 (Paul, Regular Contributor to Harpers and NYT Magazine, “The End of Oil: On The Edge of a Perilous New World”, p. 93-94)

The obsessive focus on oil is hardly surprising, given the stakes. In the fast-moving world of oil politics, oil is not simply a source of world power, but a medium for that power as well, a substance whose huge importance enmeshes companies, communities, and entire nations in a taut global web that is sensitive to the smallest of vibrations. A single oil "event" — a pipeline explosion in Iraq, political unrest in Venezuela, a bellicose exchange between the Russian and Saudi oil ministers — sends shockwaves through the world energy order, pushes prices up or down, and sets off tectonic shifts in global wealth and power. Each day that the Saudi-Russian spat kept oil supplies high and prices low, the big oil exporters were losing hundreds of millions of dollars and, perhaps, moving closer to financial and political disaster — while the big consuming nations enjoyed what amounted to a massive tax break. Yet in the volatile world of oil, the tide could quickly turn. A few months later, as anxieties over a second Iraq war drove prices up to forty dollars, the oil tide abruptly changed directions, transferring tens of billions of dollars from the economies of the United States, Japan, and Europe to the national banks in Riyadh, Caracas, Kuwait City, and Baghdad, and threatening to strangle whatever was left of the global economic recovery. So embedded has oil become in today's political and economic spheres that the big industrial governments now watch the oil markets as closely as they once watched the spread of communism — and with good reason: six of the last seven global recessions have been preceded by spikes in the price of oil, and fear is growing among economists and policymakers that, in today's growth-dependent, energy-intensive global economy, oil price volatility itself may eventually pose more risk to prosperity and stability and simple survival than terrorism or evenwar.

Failed states cause global chaos
Rice 2005 (Condoleezza Rice, former Secretary of State “The Promise of Democratic Peace: Why Promoting Freedom Is the Only Realistic Path to Security” 12-11-05. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2005/12/09/AR2005120901711.html)

Since its creation more than 350 years ago, the modern state system has always rested on the concept of sovereignty. It was assumed that states were the primary international actors and that every state was able and willing to address the threats emerging from its territory. Today, however, we have seen that these assumptions no longer hold, and as a result the greatest threats to our security are defined more by the dynamics within weak and failing states than by the borders between strong and aggressive ones. The phenomenon of weak and failing states is not new, but the danger they now pose is unparalleled. When people, goods and information traverse the globe as fast as they do today, transnational threats such as disease or terrorism can inflict damage comparable to the standing armies of nation-states. Absent responsible state authority, threats that would and should be contained within a country's borders can now melt into the world and wreak untold havoc. Weak and failing states serve as global pathways that facilitate the spread of pandemics, the movement of criminals and terrorists, and the proliferation of the world's most dangerous weapons. Our experience of this new world leads us to conclude that the fundamental character of regimes matters more today than the international distribution of power. Insisting otherwise is imprudent and impractical. The goal of our statecraft is to help create a world of democratic, well-governed states that can meet the needs of their citizens and conduct themselves responsibly in the international system. Attempting to draw neat, clean lines between our security interests and our democratic ideals does not reflect the reality of today's world. Supporting the growth of democratic institutions in all nations is not some moralistic flight of fancy; it is the only realistic response to our present challenges.

Terror causes nuclear war
Ayson 10 (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand, Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies. “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects. Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, pages 571-593)

Washington's early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country's armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, it is just possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force (and possibly nuclear force) against them. In that situation, the temptations to preempt such actions might grow, although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response. As part of its initial response to the act of nuclear terrorism (as discussed earlier) Washington might decide to order a significant conventional (or nuclear) retaliatory or disarming attack against the leadership of the terrorist group and/or states seen to support that group. Depending on the identity and especially the location of these targets, Russia and/or China might interpret such action as being far too close for their comfort, and potentially as an infringement on their spheres of influence and even on their sovereignty. One far-fetched but perhaps not impossible scenario might stem from a judgment in Washington that some of the main aiders and abetters of the terrorist action resided somewhere such as Chechnya, perhaps in connection with what Allison claims is the “Chechen insurgents' … long-standing interest in all things nuclear.”42 American pressure on that part of the world would almost certainly raise alarms in Moscow that …might require a degree of advanced consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.

Econ collapse causes nuclear war
Auslin & Lachman 9 [Michael Auslin is a resident scholar and Desmond Lachman is a resident fellow at AEI, “The Global Economy Unravels,” March 6, http://aei.org/publications/pubID.29502,filter.all/pub_detail.asp]

What do these trends mean in the short and medium term? The Great Depression showed how social and global chaos followed hard on economic collapse. The mere fact that parliaments across the globe, from America to Japan, are unable to make responsible, economically sound recovery plans suggests that they do not know what to do and are simply hoping for the least disruption. Equally worrisome is the adoption of more statist economic programs around the globe, and the concurrent decline of trust in free-market systems. The threat of instability is a pressing concern. China, until last year the world's fastest growing economy, just reported that 20 million migrant laborers lost their jobs. Even in the flush times of recent years, China faced upward of 70,000 labor uprisings a year. A sustained downturn poses grave and possibly immediate threats to Chinese internal stability. The regime in Beijing may be faced with a choice of repressing its own people or diverting their energies outward, leading to conflict with China's neighbors. Russia, an oil state completely dependent on energy sales, has had to put down riots in its Far East as well as in downtown Moscow. Vladimir Putin's rule has been predicated on squeezing civil liberties while providing economic largesse. If that devil's bargain falls apart, then wide-scale repression inside Russia, along with a continuing threatening posture toward Russia's neighbors, is likely. Even apparently stable societies face increasing risk and the threat of internal or possibly external conflict. As Japan's exports have plummeted by nearly 50%, one-third of the country's prefectures have passed emergency economic stabilization plans. Hundreds of thousands of temporary employees hired during the first part of this decade are being laid off. Spain's unemployment rate is expected to climb to nearly 20% by the end of 2010; Spanish unions are already protesting the lack of jobs, and the specter of violence, as occurred in the 1980s, is haunting the country. Meanwhile, in Greece, workers have already taken to the streets. Europe as a whole will face dangerously increasing tensions between native citizens and immigrants, largely from poorer Muslim nations, who have increased the labor pool in the past several decades. Spain has absorbed five million immigrants since 1999, while nearly 9% of Germany's residents have foreign citizenship, including almost 2 million Turks. The xenophobic labor strikes in the U.K. do not bode well for the rest of Europe. A prolonged global downturn, let alone a collapse, would dramatically raise tensions inside these countries. Couple that with possible protectionist legislation in the United States, unresolved ethnic and territorial disputes in all regions of the globe and a loss of confidence that world leaders actually know what they are doing. The result may be a series of small explosions that coalesce into a big bang.


==Afghanistan COIN aff== 

===1ac Michigan finals=== 
This is just the heg advantage we read against GBN in Michigan finals.

COIN fails in Afghanistan – tactical wins ignores basic flaws
Cohen 12/27 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “The Lost Year in the Afghan War,” 12/27/10) http://www.aolnews.com/2010/12/27/opinion-the-lost-year-in-the-afghan-war/

The Counterinsurgency Disconnect
While the West Point speech was supposed to clarify U.S. policy in Afghanistan, the White House and Pentagon were, from the beginning, seemingly not on the same page. In January, The Washington Post was reporting that "nearly a month after Obama unveiled his revised Afghanistan strategy, military and civilian leaders have come away with differing views of several fundamental aspects of the president's new approach."
While Vice President Biden stated declaratively that "this is not a [counterinsurgency] strategy," unnamed senior Pentagon officials asserted that Gen. Stanley McChrystal's plan for the war was, in fact, "still counterinsurgency." 
On the ground, the Pentagon view was winning out. Even though Obama had told U.S. militaryleaders not to send U.S. troops into places that could potentially be turned over to Afghan security services within 18 months, U.S. Marines "attacked" the southern Afghanistan town of Marjah -- an area of instability that few expect to be turned over to the Afghan army any time soon. 
But the offensive provided the military an opportunity to demonstrate its new approach to war fighting in Afghanistan: population-centric counterinsurgency, which put a premium on protecting the population, providing good governance and extending the legitimacy of the Afghan government rather than simply killing insurgents. McChrystal ludicrously declared that NATO and Afghan forces would supply "government-in-a-box" to Marjah -- as if governance and state legitimacy could be delivered so easily. 
A year later, that goal, not surprisingly, lies in tatters, not only because of the ineffectiveness of the Afghan government (a point reinforced by discredited legislative elections this past September) but also because Afghan security forces are not close to being an effective fighting force. 
Indeed, when McChrystal resigned in July as Afghan commander after an ill-advised interview withRolling Stone magazine, his replacement, Gen. David Petraeus, eschewed the hearts and minds counterinsurgency on display in Marjah. He returned to a policy that has historically defined counterinsurgent efforts -- killing the enemy, often ruthlessly. 
In November there were three and a half times more airstrikes than the year before. Night raids and special force operations targeting Taliban commanders have also increased significantly. Even house demolitions have become practically "routine." 
McChrystal was fond of saying that the most important metric for success in Afghanistan was not insurgents killed but civilians protected. Today, NATO and U.S. press releases regularly brag about body counts and Taliban commanders assassinated. 
Tactical Gains, Strategic Roadblocks 
While the escalation in military force has pushed the Taliban back on its heels, less clear are the long-term benefits. Indeed, these short-term tactical steps that are being hailed as "successes" mask the larger strategic obstacles for the U.S. and NATO. 
For example, Pakistan continues to provide sanctuary for Afghan Taliban fighters and leaders. In February when Pakistan arrested a top Taliban lieutenant, Mullah Baradar, the initial indication was that Islamabad had made a strategic shift against the Taliban. More likely, however, was that the arrest was an effort to squash any political deal between the Afghan Taliban and Karzai government that didn't protect Pakistani interests. 
Recent U.S. intelligence reports dismally suggest that Pakistan continues to view the group instead as a strategic asset for exercising influence in Afghanistan and is unlikely to turn on them. And without a Pakistani change of heart, there is little hope of winning the war in Afghanistan -- no matter how much military pressure the Taliban is subjected to. 
The next obstacle is the corrupt and ineffectual Afghan government. Efforts by the U.S. to get the Karzai regime to crack down on endemic corruption have not only failed; they have also worsened tensions between the two governments. While the U.S. continues to devote significant resources to training the Afghan army and police, both forces have a long way to go until they will be able to stand up on their own or be fully trusted by all Afghans. 
And then there is the Taliban, which remains a resilient and flexible enemy. Throughout much of 2010, Taliban insurgents have seeded violence across once stable northern and western Afghanistan, in effect nationalizing the insurgency and further destabilizing the country. 
Whatever near-term tactical successes military chiefs can point to, they pale next to these strategic hindrances, which have only intensified over the past year. 
A Way Forward? 
So what needs to change in 2011? First and foremost, the U.S. and NATO must identify a political strategy for Afghanistan that will lessen U.S. involvement in the conflict. Indeed, the current military effort -- focused on pounding the Taliban into submission and forcing the insurgents to the negotiating table -- seems more likely to encourage the Taliban to dig in and wait out U.S. forces rather than quickly ending the war. 

This is still true: the military is lying, litany of facts show Afghanistan is getting worse 
Cohen 12/29 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “The White House’s Growing ‘Credibility Gap’ on Afghanistan,” 12/29/10) 

A couple of months ago I wrote an article for Foreign Policy that argued only the US military is optimistic about the situation in Afghanistan. I noted that the apparent disconnect between public statements by the military and pretty much everyone else in Afghanistan is "increasingly bringing into question the very credibility of U.S. military statements about military progress in Afghanistan." 
Since then, things on this front have only gotten worse and the credibility gap has extended from the Pentagon to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. In recent weeks, the Obama Administration has followed the military's lead by putting out a number of optimistic statements about the war in Afghanistan that, as difficult as it is to say, are misleading the American people about the actual security situation in Afghanistan. 
First there was the White House's Afghan Strategy Review, which made the following assertions: 
in Afghanistan, the momentum achieved by the Taliban in recent years has been arrested in much of the country and reversed in some key areas. 
The surge in coalition military and civilian resources, along with an expanded special operations forces targeting campaign and expanded local security measures at the village level, has reduced overall Taliban influence and arrested the momentum they had achieved in recent years in key parts of the country. 
In Afghanistan last month, President Obama said; 
"Today we can be proud that there are fewer areas under Taliban control and more Afghans have a chance to build a more hopeful future." 
And Secretary Gates was even more specific: 
"As a result of the tough fight under way, the Taliban control far less territory today than they did a year ago." 
Nowhere in the review, and as near I can tell, the remarks of Gates and Obama is it reflected that in many parts of the country the security situation has actually deteriorated or that Afghan civilian deaths have increased significantly over the past year. 
In fact, the statements above are contradicted by a litany of facts that offer a far more pessimistic view on the progress of the war. In fact, over the past week or so there have been several major pieces of evidence that demonstrate the extent to which the US military and now the White House are misleading the American people about the tenuous security situation in Afghanistan. 
First the Wall Street Journal reported on a UN report about security in Afghanistan: 
Internal United Nations maps show a marked deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan during this year's fighting season, countering the Obama administration's optimistic assessments of military progress since the surge of additional American forces began a year ago. 
In the October map, just as in March's, virtually all of southern Afghanistan—the focus of the coalition's military offensives—remained painted the red of "very high risk," with no noted security improvements. At the same time, the green belt of "low risk" districts in northern, central and western Afghanistan shriveled considerably. 
The U.N.'s October map upgraded to "high risk" 16 previously more secure districts in Badghis, Sar-e-Pul, Balkh, Parwan, Baghlan, Samangan, Faryab, Laghman and Takhar provinces; only two previously "high risk" districts, one in Kunduz and one in Herat province, received a safer rating. 
Today, McClatchy reports on the findings of the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office and in particular its reporting on deterioration in northern Afghanistan: (I heard similar things from their representative in Mazar in September): 
"Absolutely, without any reservation, it is our opinion that the situation is a lot more insecure this year than it was last year," said Nic Lee, the director of the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office, an independent organization that analyzes security dangers for aid groups. 
While U.S.-led forces have driven insurgents out of their strongholds in southern Afghanistan, Taliban advances in the rest of the country may have offset those gains, a cross section of year-end estimates suggests. 
Insurgent attacks have jumped at least 66 percent this year, according to the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office. Security analysts say that Taliban shadow governors still exert control in all but one of Afghanistan's 34 provinces. 
"I can't understand how they can say it is more secure than last year," said Hashim Mayar, the acting director of the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief, an umbrella group that represents more than 100 Afghan and international aid groups working in Afghanistan. "Insecurity has extended to some parts of the county that were relatively safe last year." 
Perhaps most damningly, a recent Pentagon report to Congress drew similar conclusions: 
The insurgency’s capabilities and operational reach have been qualitatively and geographically expanding, as evidenced by a greater frequency and wider dispersion of insurgent-initiated attacks; however, that spread is being increasingly challenged by the ISAF surge forces conducting operations. Despite the increase in ANSF and ISAF capabilities to counter insurgent attacks, the insurgents’ tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) continue to evolve in sophistication. In addition, the insurgency continues to inhibit the expansion of a legitimate Afghan Government through an effective shadow governance process that provides dispute resolution, rule of law, and other traditional services in a number of areas. 
Keep in mind, this is a Pentagon report - and it appears to directly contradict the words of the President and the Secretary of Defense. 
So what you have is a mountain of evidence indicating that the security situation in Afghanistan is worsening; that in particular, insurgents are making serious in-roads in the north and west of the country and putting once secure regions in greater risk; even as the US is putting greater pressure on Taliban insurgents in the South and East. 
While it may be factually correct for Obama and Gates to suggest that the Taliban "control" less territory than they did before the surge this is a highly dubious claim since the Taliban's effectiveness is not really defined by territory as much as it is the ability to intimidate and influence the population, exert its influence in local communities and spread instability. This is a fact that is almost certainly understood by our military commanders in Afghanistan. 
The simple fact is that the Administration's efforts to put a more positive spin on the increasingly tenuous security situation in Afghanistan is to gloss over the truth. Perhaps the most important story of the past year in Afghanistan is that even with the inclusion of more than 30,000 more US and NATO troops the security situation has worsened dramatically. 
Now one can argue that this is a means to an end; a first stop on the road to progress. I don't find that personally credible, but it's certainly a legitimate argument for the Administration to make. 
But it's quite another thing to play down the deterioration around the country; to cherry-pick improvements in areas of the country inundated with US troops as a reason for overall optimism; and to provide the American people with a decidedly one-sided and incomplete view of the war in Afghanistan. This, unfortunately, is what the White House and the military are trying to do. 
To be blunt, it's becoming increasingly difficult to take anything the White House or the military says about the war in Afghanistan seriously. 

Perception of the Afghanistan quagmire destroys deterrence and hamstrings the military 
Haass 12/20 (Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10) http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html 

To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward Afghanistan this spring, President Obama would need to cite several factors. First, the U.S. inability to eliminate the sanctuaries in Pakistan. Second, successful counterinsurgency depends on having a solid local partner. Two years of sustained investment and multiple but fraudulent elections suggest that Afghanistan's central government will not reach the point where it is considered effective or legitimate by the bulk of its own people. All this argues for adopting a policy of counterterrorism rather than state-building. 
There are also broader reasons to recast policy. The greatest threat to U.S. national security stems from our own fiscal crisis. Afghanistan is a significant contributor to this situation and could play an important role in reducing it. A savings of $75 billion a year could help finance much-needed military modernization and reduce the deficit. 
Another factor is the increased possibility of a conflict with a reckless North Korea and the continued possibility of a confrontation with Iran over its nuclear program. U.S. military forces must be freed up to contend with these issues. The perception that we are tied down in Afghanistan makes it more difficult to threaten North Korea or Iran credibly—and makes it more difficult to muster the forces to deal with either if necessary. 
Ultimately Afghanistan is a strategic distraction. U.S. interests there are limited. So, too, are the resources available for national security. It is not surprising that the commander in the field, Gen. David Petraeus, is calling for committing greater resources to the theater. But it is the commander-in-chief's responsibility to take into account the nation's capacity to meet all of its challenges, national and international. It is for this reason that the perspectives of Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge. 

Afghanistan limits US power projection and trade off with other strategic interests 
Cordesman 12/10 (Anthony H. Cordesman, Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy, Center for Strategic and International Studies, recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal, frequently acts as a consultant to the U.S. State Department, Defense Department, and intelligence community, former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, served in numerous other government positions, including in the State Department and on NATO International Staff, “AMERICA’S WARS IN AFGHANISTAN, PAKISTAN, AND IRAQ: THE CHALLENGE OF GRAND STRATEGY, An Address to the Industrial College of the Armed Forces,” 12/10/10) http://csis.org/files/publication/101213_Iraq_and_Afghan_Talk_Edited.pdf 

Reassessing Our Grand Strategic Posture in Central Asia 
These same issues illustrate why we need to evaluate our grand strategic commitment to Afghanistan andPakistan in a way that makes hard choices about our future posture in Central Asia. We need to debate exactly what US goals are in all of Central Asia, and what overall level of continued US effort is really justified. 
A look at the map and the region's infrastructure also makes it clear that Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia are natural Russian and Chinese spheres of influence in political, military, economic, and energy terms. If we limit our role to conventional diplomacy and military advisory roles, Russia and China will have to do what they can to bring stability and security to the region. Iran and India, and other peripheral powers will have to play a far greater role. 
“Strategic neglect” is not an American strength, and neither is “strategic triage.” We cannot afford grand strategies,however, that ignore the need to make far harder choices on a global level. If the costs and risks of a major US commitment in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia remain this high, or continue to grow, this is one "Great Game" that can best be won by refusing to play it. There are simply too many complex ethnic, sectarian, tribal, and other national tensions in this region for a US to manage the end result. We have too many other interests in Asia, Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East where we already have vital strategic interests, and face problems that challenge our capabilities and resources. 
Avoiding Limited Wars That Commit the Bulk of US Ground Forces and US Civil- 
Military Resources to Open-Ended Armed Nation Building 
More broadly, we need to consider what a near decade of conflict should shows about the way we risk making major long-term commitment of scarce US military forces and civil aid capabilities in the future, and about the need to find better ways to use our resources. It shows that we have to be far more careful about letting limited involvement escalate into “worst case wars” in one narrow part of the world. 
We may not like to face the fact that we are actively involved in armed nation building, and that this can be a “worst case” form of limited war. The fact is, however, that we did escalate to this level in Iraq, we are still fighting on this level in Afghanistan, and we have a growing involvement in Pakistan. 
They have tied up an immense proportion of the US defense budget, US forces, and scarce aid and development expertise in extremely high-risk commitments to a given conflict whose scale and duration cannot be predicted and run a constant risk of serious escalation and/or failure. Moreover, it is more than doubtful that the US would have escalated or engaged in any of its these wars in the way it did if their costs and risks had been properly assessed before or during the initial phase of military and stability operations. Such wars may become necessary in the future, but we need to consider the cost-benefits of this approach to making strategic commitments even when we have valid grand strategic needs, and the cost-benefits of alternative approaches. The US needs to do a far better job of considering alternative strategies and grand strategies that put far more emphasis on containment and deterrence; on reacting decisively before wars escalate to this level of requirements, and building on allies at moderate cost rather than fighting and spending in broken states. 
In the process, the US also needs to be far more realistic about its severe real-world limits as a military “superpower.” The Iraq and Afghan/Pakistan wars have shown that the US now effectively has the land forces for one major regional contingency and no practical prospect of increasing them. These are the same forces that would have to help South Korea in a crisis or any other partner that required US support in a conventional war. 

Expanding Taliban and European withdrawals will force additional future deployments just to avoid a loss 
Dorronsoro 2010 (November, Gilles Dorronsoro, - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, “Afghanistan at the Breaking Point,” November 2010) http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_break_point.pdf 

The southern strategy presumed swift successes, which would help establish a national dynamic, but the stalemate is radically changing the situation. The coalition’s best troops will be in Helmand province and Kandahar for the next several years, which forces it to assume a defensive stance in the rest of the country. However, the opening of new fronts in the north and the Taliban’s aggressiveness in the east indicate that the insurgency could break down the Western defense system in 2011 or 2012. A relatively small number of troops—only 11,000 in the north and 8,500 in Kabul—face a growing insurgency. The European contingents, who are less war-hardened, will fi nd themselves in an unmanageable situation; increased attacks against them will force them into increasingly defensive postures. They are leaving their bases less often, giving free rein to the Taliban to organize large-scale attacks against the most isolated NATO outposts and force a retreat after years of combat, as occurred this past April in the Korengal Valley. Logistics will become increasingly complex, and more troops are dying in insurgent attacks on the main roads, including those into Pakistan. 
It is therefore hard to imagine maintaining or decreasing troop strength in 2011. To the contrary, in the absence of a political process, the coalition will have to strengthen its force through one of three options: an internal reorganization, the “Afghanization” of security, or 
sending in reinforcements. 
Option 1: Internal reorganization Can the coalition adapt? At this stage, it is hard to be optimistic about NATO’s ability to reform itself to counter the Taliban’s progress. The coalition consistently has failed to react swiftly to known problems. It is a bureaucratic machine oriented toward its own (admittedly highly complex) management, not toward problem solving. Those in charge still defi ne success in terms of inputs (resources) and outputs (actions), not outcomes (effects). NATO logistics are a disaster, because the Taliban extort logistics companies; the coalition is thus fi nancing its enemy. In addition, private security fi rms in charge of convoy security are corrupt and often create tensions with the local population. Yet it took a U.S. Senate report (Warlords, Inc.), commissioned following a series of press articles, to offi cially raise the issue. Nothing indicates that things are changing on the ground. Western armies’ effectiveness is hampered by three types of obstacles: intellectual, human, and tactical. The war is being conceived on the basis of false theories that are not being called into question as a result of failures. The coalition continues to base its actions on a false vision of the adversary and on hypotheses that long have been debunked. The relationship between development aid and security, for example, has long been challenged. 26 Increasing aid to areas rife with violence only fuels the war economy; it does not translate into political support. The tribal policy is another example of intellectual constructions without a serious empirical basis that are reiterated nonetheless. 27 The idea of dividing the Taliban in order to co-opt smaller groups has been put forward for AFGHANISTAN AT THE BREAKING POINT 25 years, although it has never yielded results. Pakistan obviously has no desire to break off its relations with the Taliban, although U.S. policy remains based on the idea of a bargain in which it provides aid to Pakistan in exchange for action against the Taliban. Why have U.S. forces not learned from past mistakes? Part of the explanation is the use of security specialists (in terrorism and counterinsurgency) who lack knowledge of Afghan society. It is revealing, in this regard, that the civilian commission that established COIN’s principles in the summer of 2009 did not include a single Afghanistan specialist. It seems that the dominant analysis—the one heeded by the U.S. command—is essentially internal, produced as a result of stays on coalition bases. Leaders must consider the analyses of other experts, if only to avoid fi ascos as predictable as Marja. The coalition does not have the necessary human resources to implement the COIN. Coalition forces’ programs lack continuity, and personnel turn over so quickly that they have few relationships with Afghan society—or time to build them. The personnel change on average every six months, although some individuals carry out several tours of duty (not necessarily in the same place). The lack of institutional memory is a key problem in Afghanistan. There is a shortage of translators, who are often insuffi ciently trained 28 and, for security reasons, often work outside of their native region, giving rise to linguistic and cultural misunderstandings. The coalition has a limited awareness of its own history, which is why proposals that have failed many times are regularly re-presented. This lack of continuity in programs enables a proliferation of initiatives that undergo regular name changes (such as the militia programs), and whose results are never really evaluated. The coalition’s tactical repertoire is limited and predictable. Compared with similar wars, Western troops move very slowly, which CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 26 GILLES DORRONSORO rules out the element of surprise. On average, coalition soldiers carry several dozen kilos on operations. Coalition forces have never attempted helicopter operations in which troops are dropped off on ridges in order to clear the area. Troop movements take an extremely long time to prepare because of the threat of IEDs; advancing a few kilometers can often take several hours. Outside of Special Forces operations, there is no element of surprise, because the Taliban are highly skilled at reading the coalition’s movements. Patrols are largely ineffective, with coalition soldiers remaining in villages for at most a few hours. European troops have instructions to limit losses, which constrains their tactical options. Their practices are essentially defensive; for example, they cannot pursue the adversary if ambushed. European troops are focused on troop protection, not on seeking or destroying the enemy. Option 2: Afghanization Could Afghan forces signifi cantly contribute to operations? Continuing training and developing the Afghan forces remain a priority, even in the event of a political solution. However, all indications are that they will not be able to take over from Western forces, even on a local level, for a number of years, and even then solely for defensive actions. A less-than-selective recruitment process has permitted the Taliban to infi ltrate the troops 29 and refl ects the The lack of institutional memory is a key problem in Afghanistan. AFGHANISTAN AT THE BREAKING POINT 27 regime’s lack of legitimacy. Thus far, particularly in Marja, Afghan forces have played a purely symbolic role 30 ; their independent operation in Laghman province in August 2010 was a fi asco. 31 Afghan forces will not be able to withstand a Taliban advance; at best they can defend their own bases or guarantee urban centers (up to a certain point). Some commentators hope that partitioning the country could lead coalition forces to leave. The fi ght would then pit a Talibandominated south against a pro-Western north. For example, a proposal by Robert Blackwill, former U.S. ambassador to India, to divide Afghanistan is based on the idea that the Afghan state is an artifi cial construct, and Afghan territory could be divided along ethnic lines. In practice, this would suppose large-scale ethnic cleansing; hundreds of thousands of Pashtuns would probably be forced to leave the north. The Afghan army would become what it is already tending toward: a force dominated by Tajiks (notably Panjshiris) and Uzbeks. We would offer the Afghan Taliban an agreement in which neither side seeks to enlarge its territory—if the Taliban stopped supporting terrorism, a proposal that they would almost certainly reject. We would then make it clear that we would rely heavily on U.S. air power and Special Forces to target any Al Qaeda base in Afghanistan, as well as Afghan Taliban leaders who aided them. We would also target Afghan Taliban encroachments across the de facto partition lines and terrorist sanctuaries along the Pakistan border. Though careful analysis is needed, this might mean a longtime residual U.S. military force in Afghanistan of about 40,000 to 50,000 troops. We would enlist Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras and supportive Pashtuns in this endeavor, as well as our NATO allies, Russia, India, Iran, perhaps China, Central Asian nations and, one hopes, the U.N. Security Council. 32 CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 28 GILLES DORRONSORO Blackwill does not explain why the Taliban should accept such a proposal when their bases in the north are rapidly growing. Such a policy would be disastrous. Paradoxically, the insurgency would fi nd itself in the position of acting as the representative of the Afghan nation in the face of an alliance of regional and international forces that are weakening central institutions. The destabilization of Pakistan is a grave danger, because the Afghan-Pakistani border (which is not recognized by Afghanistan) would disappear, with consequences for Balochistan. Even from a Western or Indian standpoint, that situation is unfavorable: Losing control over the border areas would allow all jihadist groups to fi nd sanctuary there. Proposing Afghanistan’s partition destabilizes the country by reviving Afghan fears of manipulation by imperial powers; it strengthens mistrust of the international community. Even in a more nuanced form, proposals of “decentralization” and other forms of devolution barely conceal the desire to bypass and weaken Kabul. Such talk would have the same destabilizing effects on Afghanistan and Pakistan. 
If the Taliban cannot be contained through improvements in coalition forces’ performance or by Afghanizing the war, then more troops must be sent to Afghanistan. Since strengthening the Afghan security system would take a decade in the best-case scenario, the implicit length of time for the coalition would be ten to fifteen years. Precise calculations are diffi cult, but tens of thousands of men would be required to merely contain the Taliban; many more would be required for the coalition, with heavy losses, to adopt an offensive stance and win back territory (see Figure 3). 
In addition, the United States would probably have to replace the European forces, which most likely will be gone before 2015. Decisions made in Washington are placing other NATO members in increasingly diffi cult positions. The conduct of strategy has become purely American, and the risk of unilateral withdrawal by the allies is growing. European populations are increasingly opposed to the war in Afghanistan; following the Iraqi experience, it is hard for a European government to defy popular opinion for too long. Dutch troops left Afghanistan in August 2010, and Canada plans to withdraw its troops in 2011. Great Britain publicly reiterated its decision to withdraw its combat troops before 2015, Poland is envisioning 2013, and Spain is also leaning toward an early withdrawal. Opposition parties, notably in France, are challenging the consensus on the presence of their troops in Afghanistan. European governments especially—now including Great Britain—are placing implicit political conditions on loss levels. In the current circumstances— with a strategy seen as hardly credible and the political cost of leaving quickly decreasing—the only rational decision for European countries is to unilaterally set a withdrawal deadline. The departure of European troops will have to be compensated by the addition of tens of thousands of American troops. With a plurality of Americans now opposed to the war, political support for a military escalation is probably insuffi cient. 33 
The argument that we cannot judge the strategy until next year is weak because, as we have seen, the strategy has changed and the operations under way in the south cannot change the national dynamic. 
34 
But many pundits are hoping for a reversal of the situation along the lines of what happened in post-surge Iraq. The comparison with Iraq is intellectually inconsistent, and it stands in the way of a rational policy in Afghanistan. 35 
In fact, that comparison has an essentially moral and political dimension, with no analytical value as far as the effective conduct of the war is concerned. The narrative of the surge is based on the idea that at a time when most analysts believed the situation in Iraq to be desperate, the U.S. army took risks and found the solution. The surge in Afghanistan would therefore be a test of military, rather than civilian, leadership. But for the coalition, the immediate and deferred costs of waiting are so large that the political leadership must put the war in Afghanistan back into perspective compared with other national priorities. Indeed, the importance of this theater to American interests doesn’t justify the fi nancial and human burden induced by the presence of more than 100,000 U.S. troops. 

Overstretch risks miscalculation and great power war 
Gordon 7 - chief military correspondent for the New York Times (Michael, Survival, Break Point? Iraq and America’s Military Forces, http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/media/e2wquwrwth0v8u1trg3h/contributions/m/7/6/7/m76738823338363h.pdf) 

A greater worry has been the operational availability of American ground forces. The army has a system for deploying the 42 new Brigade Combat Teams it is establishing as part of an ongoing programme to restructure its units. The goal is for an active brigade to spend two years at home for each year it is deployed overseas. So many units are needed for the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, however, that combat brigades are generally spending only a year at home for each year they are deployed. As one general put it, the brigades are either deployed, have just got back or are preparing to rotate back to Iraq and Afghanistan again. As a consequence, no more than a handful – perhaps as few as two or three Brigade Combat Teams – are immediately available for contingencies elsewhere. The shortage of forces has also constrained training. Since the focus is on Iraq and Afghanistan and combat troops generally spend only a year in the United States before rotating back, the army has essentially abandoned brigade- level heavy mechanised training at the National Training Center. Concerns have grown within the military establishment that the army may be raising a new group of young lieutenants and captains with little experience in high-intensity warfare against heavily equipped armies like North Korea’s. An unexpected crisis on the Korean Peninsula or another trouble-spot would likely force the army to take extraordinary measures. It could respond to the crisis by dispatching troops that had been earmarked for duty in Iraq and by simultaneously extending the deployment of troops already in Iraq well beyond the normal year-long tour of duty. Surging forces in Iraq would likely involve a similar extension of deployment tours. Such a move, however, would risk future difficulties in retaining officers in an all-volunteer force and might stretch the army to the breaking point. The Marine Corps is encountering similar strains. Of the 24 infantry battalions in the active force, nine are deployed, including three Marine Expeditionary Units. Seventy percent of the marine battalions that are deployed are located in the Central Command’s area of responsibility, meaning the Middle East and southwest Asia. The marines generally deploy for seven months instead of a year, but the strain has been similar. Marine units have generally been home only eight or nine months for each seven months they are deployed. Much of their training is geared to counter-insurgency. The marines are not training for high-intensity warfare at the battalion or higher level as much as in the past. To cope with the demands, both services anticipate greater use of the reserves. Army officials have already told Rumsfeld aides that they may be forced to make greater use of the National Guard. Following extensive use in Iraq, the National Guard set a goal of allowing five years at home between foreign deployments so as not to disrupt the family life and careers of its citizen soldiers. Greater use of the Guard would require that this goal be sacrificed. As for the marines, of the six reserve battalions, one has been deployed for almost two years and is currently off-limits. The remaining five have been deployed for about a year, and the marines sought and received authority from Rumsfeld to use them for one more year. In addition, the marines said in August 2006 that they will call back as many as 2,500 members of its Individual Ready Reserve, a pool of manpower that the marines had not tapped since 2003 and which is used to fill military specialities in times of national emergency. Such moves, however, are merely expedient measures. It is not simply a matter of enduring strain on the force. The limited number of ground troops has already had deleterious consequences. In Iraq, the limited numbers of forces have hampered American operations, delaying progress and prolonging the day when American forces might be able to go home. The 2005 operations by the Army’s Third Armored Cavalry Regiment in Tal Afar demonstrated what can be accomplished by an astute commander who is sensitive to the needs of the local population and has the necessary forces to establish control. The regiment worked with Iraqi security forces to clear Tal Afar of insurgents, to hold the town with Iraqi and American troops, then to encourage reconstruction there, an approach known as ’clear, hold, build’. The new counter-insurgency manual hailed the operation, as did Bush. But the reality is that such operations are troop intensive. ‘The units that have sufficient forces are applying the doctrine with good effect’, said one military officer who recently returned from Iraq. ’Those units without sufficient forces can only conduct raids to disrupt the enemy while protecting themselves. They can’t do enough to protect the population effectively and partner with Iraqi forces.‘8 Indeed, an instructive case history that is not included in the new counter- insurgency manual shows how efforts can be set back due to insufficient forces. To mass enough troops to retake Fallujah in the autumn of 2004 the marines drew forces from Haditha, essentially leaving the town at the mercy of the insur- gents. What followed was a devastating setback for the American effort to carry out counter-insurgency operations in the violent al-Anbar province. While the Americans were securing Fallujah the Iraqi police in Haditha were accosted by insurgents and executed. The episode left the town without a police force that could check the operations of the insurgents and taught the Iraqis there that the Americans could not be counted on to protect their nascent institutions, what- ever their good intentions. It also made the task of recruiting a new police force all but impossible. When follow-on marine units were deployed to Haditha their efforts to mount a police recruitment drive failed, forcing the marines to think about seeking police recruits from other parts of the country. Without adequate force levels, operations in al-Anbar became a strategic version of the Whac-a-Mole arcade game in which a target is struck only to appear elsewhere. When American forces massed troops to clear one area they left another area poorly protected, creating a vacuum that the insurgents eagerly filled.9 The consequences were summed up in an intelligence report that was prepared by Multinational Forces-West, the American command for the western area. Outside of islands of relative stability like Fallujah and al-Qaim, cleared in large-scale combat operations by American troops, the dominant force was not the American military or the new Iraqi government, but al-Qaeda in Mesopotamia. The report estimated that the deployment of a coalition division and a massive infusion of aid, neither of which were in the offing, were required to reverse the deteriorating security conditions.10 The risks presented by a constrained number of ground forces extend beyond Iraq. They raise the possibility that an adversary might miscalculate, projecting that it can undertake provocative actions that the United States would find it difficult to respond to. The Iraq War was intended by the Bush administration as a demonstration of American power and resolve that would serve as a cautionary lesson to nations like Iran, which is pursuing a nuclear-weapons capability, or Syria, which has supported Hizbullah. With the difficulties of the United States in Iraq, the lesson has backfired. But the limited number of forces may add to the perception that the United States is bogged down in Iraq and unable to respond adequately to other contingencies 

And it causes political exhaustion, withdrawal helps our reserves 
Kretkowski, 10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html) 

Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: I now oppose a counterinsurgency (COIN) strategy in Afghanistan and advocate a purely counterterror (CT) strategy (PDF link) there instead. 
Blame history—or histories—that I've read recently, starting with Livy's works on early Rome (books I-V) last spring and Donald Kagan's The Peloponnesian War at the end of 2009. I've taken occasional dips back into Robert Kaplan's Warrior Politics and his source materials (Churchill, the Federalists, Machiavelli, Sun Tzu, and several others). 
What I've taken from that reading is that the U.S. must pull back from its current efforts to remake Iraq and Afghanistan in the image of a Western democracy, or risk long-term political and economic exhaustion. 
What follows is not an argument about morality, and readers may find much of it amoral. It is about making cold-blooded political and economic calculations about where U.S. national interests will lie in the next decade. They do not lie in an open-ended COIN mission. 
The history of the Peloponnesian War is particularly relevant here. Athens began fighting Sparta with the resources of an empire and thousands of talents of silver in the bank—enough to fight expensive, far-flung naval and land campaigns for three years without lasting financial consequences. 
Athens was rich, and if peace with Sparta had come by the end of the third year, Athens would have continued to prosper and rule over much of the Mediterranean. (Athens had a "hard"—conquered or cowed—empire as opposed to the "soft" empire of alliances and treaties the U.S. currently has.) 
But the war with Sparta dragged on for decades, despite occasional peace overtures by both sides. By war's end—despite the spoils of battle and increased taxes and tribute extracted from its shrinking dominion—Athens was broke, depopulated by fighting and plague, bereft of its empire, and could no longer project power into the Mediterranean. Where its former interests ranged from Black Sea Turkey to southern Italy, it spent decades as a small-bore power and never regained its former strength or influence. 
I worry that the U.S. is similarly locked into an open-ended commitment to democratize a nation that is of regional rather than global importance—a parallel to Athens convincing itself that it had to conquer distant, militarily insignificant Sicily. 
"Winning" in Afghanistan 
The U.S. could "win" in Afghanistan where victory is defined as a stable, legitimate central government that can project power within its own borders. I don't doubt that the U.S. and its allies could accomplish this given enough time and resources. But I think—as many COIN experts also do—that it will take at least another decade or more of blood and treasure to produce such a result, if ever. 
Of course I'd like to see the results of a successful COIN campaign: a stable democracy, women's rights, and general prosperity for Afghans, who among all Asia's peoples surely deserve those things. I certainly want to end al-Qa'ida's ability to operate freely in South Asia and elsewhere. 
The U.S. is the only country that would both conceive of these missions and attempt to carry them out. But goals beyond keeping al-Qa'ida on the run don't serve the long-term interests of the U.S., and I am more interested in regaining and preserving U.S. hard power than I am in the rewards that would come from "winning" a lengthy COIN war. 
I fear the U.S. people and government becoming exhausted from the costs of a lengthy COIN effort, just as they are already exhausted from (and have largely forgotten about) the Iraq war. I worry that if this fatigue sits in, the U.S. will abandon foreign-policy leadership as it has done periodically throughout history. 
This outcome would be worse than a resurgent Taliban, worse than Afghan women and men being further oppressed, and worse than al-Qa'ida having plentiful additional caves to plot in. 
Here are some signs of an exhaustion of U.S. power: The U.S. is already overextended, with commitments in Iraq (shrinking for now), Afghanistan (expanding), Yemen (pending) and Iran (TBD). At home, the U.S. economy remains feeble and in the long term is increasingly hostage to other nations for goods and services it no longer produces (and increasingly, no longer can produce). 
Even more worrisome is the U.S. credit situation. The wars, and much other U.S. government spending, are now heavily underwritten by other countries' purchases of debt the U.S. issues. It has borrowed trillions from foreign countries and especially China, which continues its steady, highly rational policy of promoting exports while freeriding under the American security umbrella (just as the U.S. once rode for free beneath Britain's). 
Over time, those countries accrue enough debt to have a say in U.S. policies that may threaten the dollar's value, which is why you now see high U.S. officials flying to Beijing to soothe PRC nerves and explain why America keeps borrowing money. 
At home, there are few resources to apply following a major disaster, such as a Katrina-style hurricane or a major earthquake. 
The U.S. needs to start rebuilding its reserves—of capital, of credit, of political goodwill abroad, of military force—to be ready for these and more serious crises, for which we currently have few resources to spare. Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis); Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia). 

We’re not invincible – the plan is key to husband American power and stave off disastrous apolarity 
Robert Kaplan 12/5, Center for a New American Security senior fellow, The Atlantic Correspondent, 12/5/2010, "A world with no one in charge," http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/03/AR2010120306537.html, 12/6/2010 

Currency wars. Terrorist attacks. Military conflicts. Rogue regimes pursuing nuclear weapons. Collapsing states. And now, massive leaks of secret documents. What is the cause of such turbulence? The absence of empire. 
During the Cold War, the world was divided between the Soviet and U.S. imperial systems. The Soviet imperium - heir to Kievan Rus, medieval Muscovy and the Romanov dynasty - covered Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia and propped up regimes in Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. The American imperium - heir to maritime Venice and Great Britain - also propped up allies, particularly in Western Europe and East Asia. True to the garrison tradition of imperial Rome, Washington kept bases in West Germany, Turkey, South Korea and Japan, virtually surrounding the Soviet Union. 
The breakup of the Soviet empire, though it caused euphoria in the West and led to freedom in Central Europe, also sparked ethnic conflicts in the Balkans and the Caucasus that cost hundreds of thousands of lives and created millions of refugees. (In Tajikistan alone, more than 50,000 people were killed in a civil war that barely registered in the U.S. media in the 1990s.) 
The Soviet collapse also unleashed economic and social chaos in Russia itself, as well as the further unmooring of the Middle East. It was no accident that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait less than a year after the Berlin Wall fell, just as it is inconceivable that the United States would have invaded Iraq if the Soviet Union, a staunch patron of Baghdad, still existed in 2003. And had the Soviet empire not fallen apart or ignominiously withdrawn from Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden never would have taken refuge there and the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, might not have happened. Such are the wages of imperial collapse. 
Now the other pillar of the relative peace of the Cold War, the United States, is slipping, while new powers such as China and India remain unready and unwilling to fill the void. There will be no sudden breakdown on our part, as the United States, unlike the Soviet Union, is sturdily maintained by economic and political freedom. Rather, America's ability to bring a modicum of order to the world is simply fading in slow motion. 
The days of the U.S. dollar as the world's reserve currency are numbered, just as our diplomacy is hobbled by wide-ranging security leaks that are specific to an age of electronic communication, itself hostile to imperial rule. 
Then there is America's military power. Armies win wars, but in an age when the theater of conflict is global, navies and air forces are more accurate registers of national might. (Any attack on Iran, for example, would be a sea and air campaign.) The U.S. Navy has gone from nearly 600 warships in the Reagan era to fewer than 300 today, while the navies of China and India grow apace. Such trends will accelerate with the defense cuts that are surely coming in order to rescue America from its fiscal crisis. The United States still dominates the seas and the air and will do so for years ahead, but the distance between it and other nations is narrowing. 
Terrorist acts, ethnic atrocities, the yearning after horrible weaponry and the disclosure of secret cables are the work of individuals who cannot escape their own moral responsibility. But the headlines of our era are written in a specific context - that of one deceased empire that used to be the world's preeminent land power and of another, the world's preeminent sea power, that finds itself less able to affect events than ever before, even as it is less sure than ever of the cause toward which it struggles. 
This is no indictment of President Obama's foreign policy. There is slim evidence of a credible alternative to his actions on North Korea, Iran and Iraq, while a feisty debate goes on over the proper course in Afghanistan. But there is simply no doubt that the post-imperial order we inhabit allows for greater disruptions than the Cold War ever permitted. 
Husbanding our power in an effort to slow America's decline in a post-Iraq and post-Afghanistan world would mean avoiding debilitating land entanglements and focusing instead on being more of an offshore balancer: that is, lurking with our air and sea forces over the horizon, intervening only when outrages are committed that unquestionably threaten our allies and world order in general. While this may be in America's interest, the very signaling of such an aloof intention may encourage regional bullies, given that rogue regimes are the organizing principles for some pivotal parts of the world. 
North Korea already plows onward with its nuclear weapons program, even as it lobs artillery shells on a South Korean island, demonstrating the limits of both U.S. and Chinese power in a semi-anarchic world. During the Cold War, North Korea was kept in its box by the Soviet Union while the U.S. Navy dominated the Pacific as though it were an American lake. Now China's economic dominance of the region, coupled with our distracting land wars in the Middle East, is transforming the western Pacific from a benign and stable environment to a more uncertain and complex one. 
China's navy is decades behind America's, but that should offer little consolation. The United States, having just experienced asymmetric warfare on land, should now expect asymmetric challenges at sea. With its improving mine-warfare capability, seabed sonar networks and cyber-warfare in the service of anti-ship ballistic missiles, not to mention its diesel-electric and nuclear submarines, China will make U.S. Navy operations more dangerous over the coming years. 
As for Taiwan, China has 1,500 short-range ballistic missiles pointed at the island, even as hundreds of commercial flights each week link Taiwan with the mainland in peaceful commerce. When China effectively incorporates Taiwan in the years to come, that will signal the arrival of a truly multipolar and less predictable military environment in East Asia. 
In the Middle East we see the real collapse of the Cold War imperial order. The neat Israeli-Arab dichotomy that mirrored the American-Soviet one has been replaced by a less stable power arrangement, with a zone of Iranian influence stretching from Lebanon to western Afghanistan, pitted against both Israel and the Sunni Arab world, and with a newly Islamic, and no longer pro-Western, Turkey rising as a balancing power. 
Yes, empires impose order, but that order is not necessarily benevolent, as Iran's budding imperial domain shows. U.S. threats against Iran lack credibility precisely because of our imperial fatigue resulting from Iraq and Afghanistan. Out of self-interest we will probably not involve ourselves in another war in the Middle East - even as that very self-interest could consign the region to a nuclear standoff. 
One standard narrative is that as we recede, China will step up as part of a benign post-American world. But this presupposes that all imperial powers are the same, even when history clearly demonstrates that they are not. Nor does one empire sequentially fill the gap left by another. 
While the Soviet Union and the United States were both missionary powers motivated by ideals - communism and liberal democracy - through which they might order the world, China has no such grand conception. It is driven abroad by the hunger for natural resources (hydrocarbons, minerals and metals) that it requires to raise hundreds of millions of its citizens into the middle class. 
This could abet the development of a trading system between the Indian Ocean, Africa and Central Asia that might maintain peace with minimal American involvement. But who is to fill the moral void? Does China really care if Tehran develops nuclear weapons, so long as it has access to Iran's natural gas? And Beijing may not be entirely comfortable with the North Korean regime, which keeps its population in a state of freeze-frame semi-starvation, but China props it up nevertheless. 
It can be argued that with power comes moral responsibility, but it will probably be decades before China has the kind of navy and air force that would lead it to become an authentic partner in an international security system. For the moment, Beijing gets a free ride off the protection of the world's sea lanes that the U.S. Navy helps provide, and watches us struggle to stabilize Afghanistan and Pakistan so that China can one day extract their natural resources. 
If the Cold War was an epoch of relative stability, guaranteed by a tacit understanding among empires, we now have one waning empire, that of the United States, trying to bring order amid a world of rising and sometimes hostile powers. 
Looming over all of this is the densely crowded global map. Across Eurasia, rural populations have given way to megacities prone to incitement by mass media and to destruction by environmental catastrophe. Lumbering, hard-to-deploy armies are being replaced with overlapping ballistic missile ranges that demonstrate the delivery capabilities of weapons of mass destruction. New technologies make everything affect everything else at a faster and more lethal rate than ever before. The free flow of information, as the WikiLeaks scandal makes clear, and the miniaturization of weaponry, as the terrorist bombings in Pakistani cities make clear, work against the rise and sustenance of imperial orders. 
The American empire has always been more structural than spiritual. Its network of alliances certainly resembles those of empires past, and the challenges facing its troops abroad are comparable to those of imperial forces of yore, though the American public, especially after the debacles in Iraq and Afghanistan, is in no mood for any more of the land-centric adventures that have been the stuff of imperialism since antiquity. 
Americans rightly lack an imperial mentality. But lessening our engagement with the world would have devastating consequences for humanity. The disruptions we witness today are but a taste of what is to come should our country flinch from its international responsibilities. 

Heg is good 
Thayer, 6 – professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) 

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei¬ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri¬macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in¬terests. But retrenchment, in any of its guis¬es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that would lead to far greater instability and war in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa¬bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa¬bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri¬macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action¬ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur¬ing American primacy takes as its starting point the protec¬tion of the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like oil flow around the world, that the global trade and monetary regimes flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re¬trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, retrenchment will make the United States less secure than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because threats will exist no mat¬ter what role America chooses to play in international politics. Washington can¬not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. Whether they are terror¬ists, rogue states or rising powers, his¬tory shows that threats must be confront¬ed. Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus abandoning its commitments or making unconvinc¬ing half pledges to defend its interests and allies, does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat. To make such a declaration implies weak-ness and emboldens aggression. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna¬tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront¬ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys¬ical, on the ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com¬mon" the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca¬pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today -in a world where Ameri¬can primacy is clearly and unambiguous¬ly on display--is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes, ¬their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America -their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun¬try, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy -and the bandwagon¬ing effect has also given us extensive in¬fluence in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability to cre¬ate coalitions of like minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro¬liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec¬tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun¬tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac¬tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re¬sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica¬tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases Venezuela, Iran, Cuba it is an anti U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin¬sically anti American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. 
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol¬ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con¬sider the current international order free trade, a robust monetary regime, increas¬ing respect for human rights, growing de¬mocratization is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages fol¬lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With¬out U.S. power, the liberal order cre¬ated by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washing¬ton and the world. 
The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela¬tionships aligned -between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars. 
Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread de¬mocracy and other elements of its ideol¬ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter¬ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead¬ership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin¬istration for attempting to spread democ¬racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit¬ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta¬bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per¬haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af¬ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat¬ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash¬ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku¬wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. 
Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob¬al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character¬ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo¬bility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a glob¬al public good from which all states ben¬efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca¬reer confident in the socialist ideology of post independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog¬nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globaliza¬tion, which are facilitated through Amer¬ican primacy.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. 


And, the plan is key to demonstrate Obama’s control of his own foreign policy and restore international credibility 
Andrew J. Bacevich, 10/5 Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University, 10-05-2010 (“Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439, Accessed 10-12-2010) 
Andrew J. Bacevich is professor of history and international relations at Boston University. His new book is Washington Rules: America’s Path to Permanent War. 

Bourne thereby identified a central truth of modern American politics: Stripped to its essence, our democracy has become an elaborate process of conferring enormous power on a single individual. What we choose to call an inauguration is more accurately a coronation. Nominally a chief executive, the president today occupies a position more akin to that of emperor, and Americans both expect much and demand much of their emperor. 
To be "the most powerful man in the world" is to be simultaneously worshiped and despised. To occupy the Oval Office is to become the modern-day equivalent of a Sun King, commanding deference, while also becoming the subject of endless gossip, envy, jealousy, and intrigue, all to be reported at length and ad nauseam by Bob Woodward. 
What lends this arrangement a semblance of legitimacy is the expectation that our president-monarch knows how to wield power effectively. Through the exercise of royal prerogatives, the king demonstrates his worthiness for high office. 
Should a president demonstrate an absence of mastery — if he comes across as a weakling or a ditherer — profound dysfunction results. Recall the Carter era. Jimmy Carter's inability to resolve the Iran hostage crisis reduced him to a figure of contempt and left Americans with a sense that the country itself was adrift. In short order, they stripped Carter of his crown. 
Yet presidential weakness — even an inkling of weakness — can have international as well as domestic implications. This is notably the case in matters related to national security. If the occupant of the Oval Office appears less than fully in command, friend and foe alike will wonder who exactly is in charge. 
Confusion about American priorities and intentions can thereby result. Out of confusion can come miscalculation, as allies revise downward their estimate of American reliability and adversaries persuade themselves that they can get away with mischief. In other words, the implications of weakness extend beyond the who’s up, who’s down preoccupations of garden-variety politics. This confusion describes where we find ourselves today. There is no doubting that President Obama is smart, talented, well intentioned, and smooth as they come. Yet whether he possesses the temperament to govern is fast becoming an open question. Put simply, the question is this: Does Obama have sufficient backbone? 
The release of Bob Woodward's new book Obama’s Wars has raised this question to new heights. It depicts a president who not only gets rolled but who knows when he is getting rolled and still allows it to happen. With regard to how to proceed on Afghanistan — the most important foreign policy decision to cross Obama’s desk thus far — the president last year demanded that the Pentagon present him with distinctive policy options. The king didn’t want to be handed the solution; he wanted to choose. 
In fact, however, the members of his court offered him three variations of a single course of action, the one that the Pentagon itself preferred — a textbook example of how the theory of “civilian control” differs from actual practice. 
Particularly disturbing is the fact that our very smart president understood exactly what was happening. Woodward shows Obama complaining loudly. Having registered that complaint, the president more or less meekly rubber-stamped the policy that the Pentagon was foisting on him. In effect, on Afghanistan he thereby forfeited to others the power to decide. Once Obama endorsed choices made by unelected subordinates, the office of commander-in-chief had acquired additional tenants. 
That was back in December 2009, of course. Here in October 2010, the Pentagon's preferred plan for Afghanistan shows little sign of succeeding anytime soon. Obama's wariness about escalating the war there — now about to enter its tenth year — looks increasingly sound, which makes his complicity in going along with that escalation all the more damning. 
Yet perhaps all is not lost — at least not entirely so. The president may yet have one last chance to retrieve the situation and to reverse the impression that he is less than fully in control of his administration. The next Afghanistan "milestone" is a strategic assessment promised for this coming December, one full year after Obama announced his (or the Pentagon's) Afghan surge. The military — General David Petraeus in the vanguard — will exert itself to minimize the importance of this mid-course review. So too will members of the Petraeus Lobby, currently challenging AIPAC, the trial lawyers, the pharmaceutical industry and all the rest of the powerful interest groups vying for preeminence in Washington. 
You can take it to the bank: The military backed by militarists in mufti will press for more time. They will argue for postponing any serious decisions until July 2011, intending in the mean time to chip away at the president's vaguely stated promise to begin withdrawing U.S. troops from Afghanistan next summer. 
If Obama wishes to salvage his presidency and demonstrate his capacity to lead and to govern, he will reject that effort. He will instead seize the opportunity presented by the mid-course review. 
December is the time to render a verdict on the Afghanistan war. If the Afghan surge is still not showing clear signs of success by year's end, waiting another seven months won’t make a difference. 
December also presents Obama with an opportunity — perhaps his last one — to reverse the impression that he is not fully in control of his own administration. Decisive action just might enable the president to reassure Americans and the rest of the world that he is, after all, up to the job. 
Should he squander this last opportunity, however, the king is likely to find himself soon thereafter seeking new employment. 

This presidential indecision signals weakness and destroys obama’s foreign policy agenda 
Bolton 09 - Senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute [John R. Bolton (Former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations) “The danger of Obama's dithering,” Los Angeles Times, October 18, 2009, pg.http://articles.latimes.com/2009/oct/18/opinion/oe-bolton18] 

Weakness in American foreign policy in one region often invites challenges elsewhere, because our adversaries carefully follow diminished American resolve. Similarly, presidential indecisiveness, whether because of uncertainty or internal political struggles, signals that the United States may not respond to international challenges in clear and coherent ways. 
Taken together, weakness and indecisiveness have proved historically to be a toxic combination for America's global interests. That is exactly the combination we now see under President Obama. If anything, his receiving the Nobel Peace Prize only underlines the problem. All of Obama's campaign and inaugural talk about "extending an open hand" and "engagement," especially the multilateral variety, isn't exactly unfolding according to plan. Entirely predictably, we see more clearly every day that diplomacy is not a policy but only a technique. Absent presidential leadership, which at a minimum means clear policy direction and persistence in the face of criticism and adversity, engagement simply embodies weakness and indecision. 
Obama is no Harry Truman. At best, he is reprising Jimmy Carter. At worst, the real precedent may be Ethelred the Unready, the turn-of the-first-millennium Anglo-Saxon king whose reputation for indecisiveness and his unsuccessful paying of Danegeld -- literally, "Danish tax" -- to buy off Viking raiders made him history's paradigmatic weak leader. 
Beyond the disquiet (or outrage for some) prompted by the president's propensity to apologize for his country's pre-Obama history, Americans increasingly sense that his administration is drifting from one foreign policy mistake to another. Worse, the current is growing swifter, and the threats more pronounced, even as the administration tries to turn its face away from the world and toward its domestic priorities. Foreign observers, friend and foe alike, sense the same aimlessness and drift. French President Nicolas Sarkozy had to remind Obama at a Sept. 24 U.N. Security Council meeting that "we live in the real world, not a virtual one." 
Examples of weakness abound, and the consequences are readily foreseeable. 
Canceling the Polish and Czech missile defense bases is understood in Moscow and Eastern European capitals as backing down in the face of Russian bluster and belligerence. Russian President Dmitry Medvedev threatened the day after our 2008 election to deploy missiles targeting these assets unless they were canceled, a threat duly noted by the Russian media when Obama canceled the sites. Given candidate Obama's reaction to the 2008 Russia-Georgia war -- calling on both sides to exercise restraint -- there is little doubt that Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's project to re-extend Russian hegemony over as much of the former Soviet Union as he can will continue apace. Why should he worry about Washington? 
Obama's Middle East peace process has stalled, most recently because he set a target for an end to Israeli settlement expansion, couldn't meet it and then proceeded as though he hadn't meant what he said originally. By insisting that Israel freeze settlements as a precondition to renewing Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, Obama drew a clear line. But when Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu withstood Obama's pressure, Obama caved, hosting a photo-op with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas that strengthened Netanyahu and weakened Abbas just when Obama wanted to achieve exactly the opposite. However one views the substantive outcome of this vignette, Obama himself looked the weakest of all. It could well be years before his Middle East policy gets back up off the ground. 
On nuclear nonproliferation, North Korea responded to the "open hand" of engagement by testing its second nuclear device, continuing an aggressive ballistic missile testing program, cooperating with other rogue states and kidnapping and holding hostage two American reporters. Obama's reaction is to press for more negotiations, which simply encourages Pyongyang to up the ante. 
Iran is revealed to have been long constructing an undeclared, uninspected nuclear facility that makes a mockery of almost seven years of European Union negotiation efforts. Forced to deal publicly with this deeply worrying threat, Obama proposes the equivalent of money-laundering for nuclear threats: Iranian uranium enriched in open, unambiguous defiance of four Security Council resolutions will be enriched to higher levels in Russia, and then returned to be burned in a Tehran reactor -- ostensibly for peaceful purposes. Sarkozy again captured the growing international incredulity in his noteworthy Security Council speech: "I support America's 'extended hand.' But what have these proposals for dialogue produced for the international community? Nothing but more enriched uranium and more centrifuges." 
Finally, Obama's agonizing, very public reappraisal of his own 7-month-old Afghanistan policy epitomizes indecisiveness. While there is no virtue in sustaining policy merely for continuity's sake, neither is credit due for too-quickly adopting policies without appreciating the risks entailed and then fleeing precipitously when the risks become manifest. The administration's stated reason for its policy re-evaluation was widespread fraud in Afghanistan's Aug. 20 presidential election. But this explanation is simply not credible. Did not the administration's generals and diplomats on the ground, not to mention United Nations observers, see the election mess coming? Was the Hamid Karzai administration's cupidity and corruption overlooked or ignored during Obama's original review and revision of his predecessor's policy? 

That agenda solves global nuclear conflict --- Obama’s personal credibility enables coordinated conflict resolution and maintains US leadership 
Fareed Zakaria 8, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/08, http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249 

The "Global Trends" report identifies several worrying aspects of the new international order—competition for resources like oil, food, commodities and water; climate change; continued terrorist threats; and demographic shifts. But the most significant point it makes is that these changes are taking place at every level and at great speed in the global system. Nations with differing political and economic systems are flourishing. Subnational groups, with varied and contradictory agendas, are on the rise. Technology is increasing the pace of change. Such ferment is usually a recipe for instability. Sudden shifts can trigger sudden actions—terrorist attacks, secessionist outbreaks, nuclear brinksmanship. 
The likelihood of instability might increase because of the economic crisis. Despite some booms and busts—as well as 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq—the world has been living through an economic golden age. Global growth has been stronger for the past five years than in any comparable period for almost five decades. Average per capita income has risen faster than in any such period in recorded history. But that era is over. The next five years are likely to be marked by slow growth, perhaps even stagnation and retreat, in certain important areas. What will be the political effects of this slowdown? Historically, economic turmoil has been accompanied by social unrest, nationalism and protectionism. We might avoid these dangers, but it is worth being acutely aware of them. 
At the broadest level, the objective of the United States should be to stabilize the current global order and to create mechanisms through which change—the rise of new powers, economic turmoil, the challenge of subnational groups like Al Qaeda—can be accommodated without overturning the international order. Why? The world as it is organized today powerfully serves America's interests and ideals. The greater the openness of the global system, the better the prospects for trade, commerce, contact, pluralism and liberty. 
Any strategy that is likely to succeed in today's world will be one that has the active support and participation of many countries. Consider the financial crisis, which several Western governments initially tried to handle on their own. They seemed to forget about globalization—and nothing is more globalized than capital. Belatedly recognizing this, leaders held the G20 meeting in Washington. This was a good first step (though just a first step). Without a coordinated approach, efforts to patch up the system will fail. 
The same applies not just to "soft" problems of the future—pandemics, climate change—but to current security challenges as well. The problem of multilateralism in Afghanistan—a place where everyone claims to be united in the struggle—is a sad test case for the future. Thirty-seven nations, operating with the blessing of the United Nations and attacking an organization that has brutally killed civilians in dozens of countries, are still unable to succeed. Why? There are many reasons, but it does not help that few countries involved—from our European allies to Pakistan—are genuinely willing to put aside their narrow parochial interests for a broader common one. Terrorism in South Asia generally requires effective multinational cooperation. Business as usual will produce terrorism that will become usual. 
National rivalries, some will say, are in the nature of international politics. But that's no longer good enough. Without better and more sustained cooperation, it is difficult to see how we will solve most of the major problems of the 21st century. The real crisis we face is not one of capitalism or American decline, but of globalization itself. As the problems spill over borders, the demand for common action has gone up. But the institutions and mechanisms to make it happen are in decline. The United Nations, NATO and the European Union are all functioning less effectively than they should be. I hold no brief for any specific institution. The United Nations, especially the Security Council, is flawed and dysfunctional. But we need someinstitutions for global problem-solving, some mechanisms to coordinate policy. Unless we can find ways to achieve this, we should expect more crises and less success at solving them. 
In a world characterized by change, more and more countries—especially great powers like Russia and China and India—will begin to chart their own course. That in turn will produce greater instability. America cannot forever protect every sea lane, broker every deal and fight every terrorist group. Without some mechanisms to solve common problems, the world as we have come to know it, with an open economy and all the social and political benefits of this openness, will flounder and perhaps reverse. 
Now, these gloomy forecasts are not inevitable. Worst-case scenarios are developed so that they can be prevented. And there are many good signs in the world today. The most significant rising power—China—does not seem to seek to overturn the established order (as have many newly rising powers in the past) but rather to succeed within it. Considerable cooperation takes place every day at the ground level, among a large number of countries, on issues from nuclear nonproliferation to trade policy. 
Sometimes a crisis provides an opportunity. The Washington G20 meeting, for instance, was an interesting portent of a future "post-American" world. Every previous financial crisis had been handled by the IMF, the World Bank or the G7 (or G8). This time, the emerging nations were fully represented. At the same time, the meeting was held in Washington, and George W. Bush presided. The United States retains a unique role in the emerging world order. It remains the single global power. It has enormous convening, agenda-setting and leadership powers, although they must be properly managed and shared with all the world's major players, old and new, in order to be effective. 
President-elect Obama has powers of his own, too. I will not exaggerate the importance of a single personality, but Obama has become a global symbol like none I can recall in my lifetime. Were he to go to Tehran, for example, he would probably draw a crowd of millions, far larger than any mullah could dream of. Were his administration to demonstrate in its day-to-day conduct a genuine understanding of other countries' perspectives and an empathy for the aspirations of people around the world, it could change America's reputation in lasting ways. 
This is a rare moment in history. A more responsive America, better attuned to the rest of the world, could help create a new set of ideas and institutions—an architecture of peace for the 21st century that would bring stability, prosperity and dignity to the lives of billions of people. Ten years from now, the world will have moved on; the rising powers will have become unwilling to accept an agenda conceived in Washington or London or Brussels. But at this time and for this man, there is a unique opportunity to use American power to reshape the world. This is his moment. He should seize it. 




===1ac MBA=== 

The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.

CONTENTION ONE IS HEG

COIN fails in Afghanistan – tactical progress ignores key flaws
Cohen 12/27 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “The Lost Year in the Afghan War,” 12/27/10) http://www.aolnews.com/2010/12/27/opinion-the-lost-year-in-the-afghan-war/

The Counterinsurgency Disconnect
While the West Point speech was supposed to clarify U.S. policy in Afghanistan, the White House and Pentagon were, from the beginning, seemingly not on the same page. In January, The Washington Post was reporting that "nearly a month after Obama unveiled his revised Afghanistan strategy, military and civilian leaders have come away with differing views of several fundamental aspects of the president's new approach."
While Vice President Biden stated declaratively that "this is not a [counterinsurgency] strategy," unnamed senior Pentagon officials asserted that Gen. Stanley McChrystal's plan for the war was, in fact, "still counterinsurgency."
On the ground, the Pentagon view was winning out. Even though Obama had told U.S. militaryleaders not to send U.S. troops into places that could potentially be turned over to Afghan security services within 18 months, U.S. Marines "attacked" the southern Afghanistan town of Marjah -- an area of instability that few expect to be turned over to the Afghan army any time soon.
But the offensive provided the military an opportunity to demonstrate its new approach to war fighting in Afghanistan: population-centric counterinsurgency, which put a premium on protecting the population, providing good governance and extending the legitimacy of the Afghan government rather than simply killing insurgents. McChrystal ludicrously declared that NATO and Afghan forces would supply "government-in-a-box" to Marjah -- as if governance and state legitimacy could be delivered so easily.
A year later, that goal, not surprisingly, lies in tatters, not only because of the ineffectiveness of the Afghan government (a point reinforced by discredited legislative elections this past September) but also because Afghan security forces are not close to being an effective fighting force.
Indeed, when McChrystal resigned in July as Afghan commander after an ill-advised interview withRolling Stone magazine, his replacement, Gen. David Petraeus, eschewed the hearts and minds counterinsurgency on display in Marjah. He returned to a policy that has historically defined counterinsurgent efforts -- killing the enemy, often ruthlessly.
In November there were three and a half times more airstrikes than the year before. Night raids and special force operations targeting Taliban commanders have also increased significantly. Even house demolitions have become practically "routine."
McChrystal was fond of saying that the most important metric for success in Afghanistan was not insurgents killed but civilians protected. Today, NATO and U.S. press releases regularly brag about body counts and Taliban commanders assassinated.
Tactical Gains, Strategic Roadblocks
While the escalation in military force has pushed the Taliban back on its heels, less clear are the long-term benefits. Indeed, these short-term tactical steps that are being hailed as "successes" mask the larger strategic obstacles for the U.S. and NATO.
For example, Pakistan continues to provide sanctuary for Afghan Taliban fighters and leaders. In February when Pakistan arrested a top Taliban lieutenant, Mullah Baradar, the initial indication was that Islamabad had made a strategic shift against the Taliban. More likely, however, was that the arrest was an effort to squash any political deal between the Afghan Taliban and Karzai government that didn't protect Pakistani interests.
Recent U.S. intelligence reports dismally suggest that Pakistan continues to view the group instead as a strategic asset for exercising influence in Afghanistan and is unlikely to turn on them. And without a Pakistani change of heart, there is little hope of winning the war in Afghanistan -- no matter how much military pressure the Taliban is subjected to.
The next obstacle is the corrupt and ineffectual Afghan government. Efforts by the U.S. to get the Karzai regime to crack down on endemic corruption have not only failed; they have also worsened tensions between the two governments. While the U.S. continues to devote significant resources to training the Afghan army and police, both forces have a long way to go until they will be able to stand up on their own or be fully trusted by all Afghans.
And then there is the Taliban, which remains a resilient and flexible enemy. Throughout much of 2010, Taliban insurgents have seeded violence across once stable northern and western Afghanistan, in effect nationalizing the insurgency and further destabilizing the country.
Whatever near-term tactical successes military chiefs can point to, they pale next to these strategic hindrances, which have only intensified over the past year.
A Way Forward?
So what needs to change in 2011? First and foremost, the U.S. and NATO must identify a political strategy for Afghanistan that will lessen U.S. involvement in the conflict. Indeed, the current military effort -- focused on pounding the Taliban into submission and forcing the insurgents to the negotiating table -- seems more likely to encourage the Taliban to dig in and wait out U.S. forces rather than quickly ending the war.

Cohen writes again – The military is lying, litany of facts show Afghanistan is getting worse
Cohen 12/29 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “The White House’s Growing ‘Credibility Gap’ on Afghanistan,” 12/29/10)

A couple of months ago I wrote an article for Foreign Policy that argued only the US military is optimistic about the situation in Afghanistan. I noted that the apparent disconnect between public statements by the military and pretty much everyone else in Afghanistan is "increasingly bringing into question the very credibility of U.S. military statements about military progress in Afghanistan." 
Since then, things on this front have only gotten worse and the credibility gap has extended from the Pentagon to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. In recent weeks, the Obama Administration has followed the military's lead by putting out a number of optimistic statements about the war in Afghanistan that, as difficult as it is to say, are misleading the American people about the actual security situation in Afghanistan.
First there was the White House's Afghan Strategy Review, which made the following assertions:
in Afghanistan, the momentum achieved by the Taliban in recent years has been arrested in much of the country and reversed in some key areas.
The surge in coalition military and civilian resources, along with an expanded special operations forces targeting campaign and expanded local security measures at the village level, has reduced overall Taliban influence and arrested the momentum they had achieved in recent years in key parts of the country. 
In Afghanistan last month, President Obama said; 
"Today we can be proud that there are fewer areas under Taliban control and more Afghans have a chance to build a more hopeful future."
And Secretary Gates was even more specific:
"As a result of the tough fight under way, the Taliban control far less territory today than they did a year ago."
Nowhere in the review, and as near I can tell, the remarks of Gates and Obama is it reflected that in many parts of the country the security situation has actually deteriorated or that Afghan civilian deaths have increased significantly over the past year.
In fact, the statements above are contradicted by a litany of facts that offer a far more pessimistic view on the progress of the war. In fact, over the past week or so there have been several major pieces of evidence that demonstrate the extent to which the US military and now the White House are misleading the American people about the tenuous security situation in Afghanistan.
First the Wall Street Journal reported on a UN report about security in Afghanistan:
Internal United Nations maps show a marked deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan during this year's fighting season, countering the Obama administration's optimistic assessments of military progress since the surge of additional American forces began a year ago.
In the October map, just as in March's, virtually all of southern Afghanistan—the focus of the coalition's military offensives—remained painted the red of "very high risk," with no noted security improvements. At the same time, the green belt of "low risk" districts in northern, central and western Afghanistan shriveled considerably.
The U.N.'s October map upgraded to "high risk" 16 previously more secure districts in Badghis, Sar-e-Pul, Balkh, Parwan, Baghlan, Samangan, Faryab, Laghman and Takhar provinces; only two previously "high risk" districts, one in Kunduz and one in Herat province, received a safer rating.
Today, McClatchy reports on the findings of the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office and in particular its reporting on deterioration in northern Afghanistan: (I heard similar things from their representative in Mazar in September):
"Absolutely, without any reservation, it is our opinion that the situation is a lot more insecure this year than it was last year," said Nic Lee, the director of the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office, an independent organization that analyzes security dangers for aid groups.
While U.S.-led forces have driven insurgents out of their strongholds in southern Afghanistan, Taliban advances in the rest of the country may have offset those gains, a cross section of year-end estimates suggests.
Insurgent attacks have jumped at least 66 percent this year, according to the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office. Security analysts say that Taliban shadow governors still exert control in all but one of Afghanistan's 34 provinces.
"I can't understand how they can say it is more secure than last year," said Hashim Mayar, the acting director of the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief, an umbrella group that represents more than 100 Afghan and international aid groups working in Afghanistan. "Insecurity has extended to some parts of the county that were relatively safe last year."
Perhaps most damningly, a recent Pentagon report to Congress drew similar conclusions:
The insurgency’s capabilities and operational reach have been qualitatively and geographically expanding, as evidenced by a greater frequency and wider dispersion of insurgent-initiated attacks; however, that spread is being increasingly challenged by the ISAF surge forces conducting operations. Despite the increase in ANSF and ISAF capabilities to counter insurgent attacks, the insurgents’ tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) continue to evolve in sophistication. In addition, the insurgency continues to inhibit the expansion of a legitimate Afghan Government through an effective shadow governance process that provides dispute resolution, rule of law, and other traditional services in a number of areas. 
Keep in mind, this is a Pentagon report - and it appears to directly contradict the words of the President and the Secretary of Defense. 
So what you have is a mountain of evidence indicating that the security situation in Afghanistan is worsening; that in particular, insurgents are making serious in-roads in the north and west of the country and putting once secure regions in greater risk; even as the US is putting greater pressure on Taliban insurgents in the South and East. 
While it may be factually correct for Obama and Gates to suggest that the Taliban "control" less territory than they did before the surge this is a highly dubious claim since the Taliban's effectiveness is not really defined by territory as much as it is the ability to intimidate and influence the population, exert its influence in local communities and spread instability. This is a fact that is almost certainly understood by our military commanders in Afghanistan.
The simple fact is that the Administration's efforts to put a more positive spin on the increasingly tenuous security situation in Afghanistan is to gloss over the truth. Perhaps the most important story of the past year in Afghanistan is that even with the inclusion of more than 30,000 more US and NATO troops the security situation has worsened dramatically.
Now one can argue that this is a means to an end; a first stop on the road to progress. I don't find that personally credible, but it's certainly a legitimate argument for the Administration to make.
But it's quite another thing to play down the deterioration around the country; to cherry-pick improvements in areas of the country inundated with US troops as a reason for overall optimism; and to provide the American people with a decidedly one-sided and incomplete view of the war in Afghanistan. This, unfortunately, is what the White House and the military are trying to do. 
To be blunt, it's becoming increasingly difficult to take anything the White House or the military says about the war in Afghanistan seriously.

Therefore, the plan’s key to demonstrate Obama’s control of his own foreign policy and restore international credibility
Andrew J. Bacevich, 10/5 Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University, 10-05-2010 (“Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439, Accessed 10-12-2010)
Andrew J. Bacevich is professor of history and international relations at Boston University. His new book is Washington Rules: America’s Path to Permanent War.

Bourne thereby identified a central truth of modern American politics: Stripped to its essence, our democracy has become an elaborate process of conferring enormous power on a single individual. What we choose to call an inauguration is more accurately a coronation. Nominally a chief executive, the president today occupies a position more akin to that of emperor, and Americans both expect much and demand much of their emperor.
To be "the most powerful man in the world" is to be simultaneously worshiped and despised. To occupy the Oval Office is to become the modern-day equivalent of a Sun King, commanding deference, while also becoming the subject of endless gossip, envy, jealousy, and intrigue, all to be reported at length and ad nauseam by Bob Woodward.
What lends this arrangement a semblance of legitimacy is the expectation that our president-monarch knows how to wield power effectively. Through the exercise of royal prerogatives, the king demonstrates his worthiness for high office.
Should a president demonstrate an absence of mastery — if he comes across as a weakling or a ditherer — profound dysfunction results. Recall the Carter era. Jimmy Carter's inability to resolve the Iran hostage crisis reduced him to a figure of contempt and left Americans with a sense that the country itself was adrift. In short order, they stripped Carter of his crown.
Yet presidential weakness — even an inkling of weakness — can have international as well as domestic implications. This is notably the case in matters related to national security. If the occupant of the Oval Office appears less than fully in command, friend and foe alike will wonder who exactly is in charge.
Confusion about American priorities and intentions can thereby result. Out of confusion can come miscalculation, as allies revise downward their estimate of American reliability and adversaries persuade themselves that they can get away with mischief. In other words, the implications of weakness extend beyond the who’s up, who’s down preoccupations of garden-variety politics. This confusion describes where we find ourselves today. There is no doubting that President Obama is smart, talented, well intentioned, and smooth as they come. Yet whether he possesses the temperament to govern is fast becoming an open question. Put simply, the question is this: Does Obama have sufficient backbone?
The release of Bob Woodward's new book Obama’s Wars has raised this question to new heights. It depicts a president who not only gets rolled but who knows when he is getting rolled and still allows it to happen. With regard to how to proceed on Afghanistan — the most important foreign policy decision to cross Obama’s desk thus far — the president last year demanded that the Pentagon present him with distinctive policy options. The king didn’t want to be handed the solution; he wanted to choose.
In fact, however, the members of his court offered him three variations of a single course of action, the one that the Pentagon itself preferred — a textbook example of how the theory of “civilian control” differs from actual practice.
Particularly disturbing is the fact that our very smart president understood exactly what was happening. Woodward shows Obama complaining loudly. Having registered that complaint, the president more or less meekly rubber-stamped the policy that the Pentagon was foisting on him. In effect, on Afghanistan he thereby forfeited to others the power to decide. Once Obama endorsed choices made by unelected subordinates, the office of commander-in-chief had acquired additional tenants.
That was back in December 2009, of course. Here in October 2010, the Pentagon's preferred plan for Afghanistan shows little sign of succeeding anytime soon. Obama's wariness about escalating the war there — now about to enter its tenth year — looks increasingly sound, which makes his complicity in going along with that escalation all the more damning.
Yet perhaps all is not lost — at least not entirely so. The president may yet have one last chance to retrieve the situation and to reverse the impression that he is less than fully in control of his administration. The next Afghanistan "milestone" is a strategic assessment promised for this coming December, one full year after Obama announced his (or the Pentagon's) Afghan surge. The military — General David Petraeus in the vanguard — will exert itself to minimize the importance of this mid-course review. So too will members of the Petraeus Lobby, currently challenging AIPAC, the trial lawyers, the pharmaceutical industry and all the rest of the powerful interest groups vying for preeminence in Washington.
You can take it to the bank: The military backed by militarists in mufti will press for more time. They will argue for postponing any serious decisions until July 2011, intending in the mean time to chip away at the president's vaguely stated promise to begin withdrawing U.S. troops from Afghanistan next summer.
If Obama wishes to salvage his presidency and demonstrate his capacity to lead and to govern, he will reject that effort. He will instead seize the opportunity presented by the mid-course review.
December is the time to render a verdict on the Afghanistan war. If the Afghan surge is still not showing clear signs of success by year's end, waiting another seven months won’t make a difference.
December also presents Obama with an opportunity — perhaps his last one — to reverse the impression that he is not fully in control of his own administration. Decisive action just might enable the president to reassure Americans and the rest of the world that he is, after all, up to the job.
Should he squander this last opportunity, however, the king is likely to find himself soon thereafter seeking new employment.

And, staying the course ensures defeat and makes the US look like a paper tiger
Kuhner 2009 – president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) 

America is losing the war in Afghanistan. Rather than change course, President Obama is sending 21,000 additional U.S. troops. This will bring the total to 68,000 American soldiers fighting in Afghanistan, bolstering coalition forces to 110,000.
The troop surge, however, will not work. Afghanistan has become Mr. Obama's Vietnam - a protracted quagmire draining precious American blood and treasure. August was the deadliest month for U.S. forces, with 47 soldiers killed by Taliban insurgents. More than 300 coalition troops have died in 2009. This is the highest toll since the war began in 2001, and there are still four months to go. 
The tide of battle has turned against the West. The Taliban is resurgent. It has reasserted control over its southern stronghold in Kandahar. The Taliban is launching devastating attacks in the western and northern parts of the country - formerly stable areas. U.S. casualties are soaring. The morale of coalition forces is plummeting. Most of our allies - with the exception of the Canadians and the British - are reluctant to engage the Islamist militants. American public support for the war is waning.
The conflict has dragged on for nearly eight years. (U.S. involvement in World War II was four years, World War I less than one.) Yet, America's strategic objectives remain incoherent and elusive.
The war's initial aim was to topple the Taliban and eradicate al Qaeda bases from Afghan territory. Those goals have been achieved. Washington should have declared victory and focused on the more important issue: preventing Islamic fundamentalists from seizing power in Pakistan, along with its nuclear arsenal.
Instead, America is engaged in futile nation-building. Mr. Obama, like President George W. Bush before him, believes Afghanistan must be transformed by erecting a strong central government, democracy and a modern economy. Washington argues this will prevent terrorism from taking root and bring about lasting "stability."
Hence, following a recent reassessment of the war by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, U.S. commander in Afghanistan, the Obama administration is contemplating deploying 20,000 to 40,000 U.S. troops - on top of the 21,000 already pledged. Moreover, billions have been spent building irrigation canals, schools, hospitals and factories. Civilian advisers are being sent to encourage farmers to grow other cash crops besides opium poppies. Western aid money has been used to establish a massive Afghan army, a large police force and a swollen government bureaucracy.
Gen. McChrystal said this week that the situation is "serious," but not impossible. He still believes victory is within reach. His new strategy is to protect Afghan civilians from Taliban attacks. He also wants to create a lucrative jobs programs and improve local government services. The goal is to win the "hearts and minds" of the Afghan people. Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, says we must combat Afghanistan's "culture of poverty." Call it humanitarian war through social engineering.
Mr. Obama's policy will result in a major American defeat - one that will signal the end of America as a superpower and expose us to the world as a paper tiger. Afghanistan is the graveyard of empires. The mighty British and Russian armies were humiliated in drawn-out guerrilla campaigns. The country's mountainous geography and primitive tribal culture are ideally suited for insurgent warfare. By sending in more troops, Washington is playing right into the Taliban's hands: We are enabling the Taliban to pick off our forces one by one as they wage a campaign of attrition.
The Taliban blend with the local population, making it almost impossible for U.S. forces to distinguish combatants from civilians. American counterinsurgency efforts are thus alienating some of the locals. Initially welcomed as liberators, we are now viewed in some quarters as occupiers. Moreover, much of the West's aid money is siphoned off by greedy politicians in Kabul. 
President Hamid Karzai's government is corrupt, venal and ineffective. It barely controls one-third of the country. It is despised by many Afghans for its brutality and incompetence. In addition, Mr. Karzai's vice-presidential running mate is a drug trafficker.
The West's efforts to forge a cohesive national state based on federalism and economic reconstruction have failed. Warlords are increasingly asserting power in the provinces. The country is fractured along tribal and ethnic lines. The center cannot hold: Afghanistan remains mired in anarchy, blood feuds and weak, decentralized rule.
U.S. troops should be deployed to defend U.S. national interests. Their lives should never be squandered for an experiment in liberal internationalism. In fact, such a policy is morally grotesque and strategically reckless.
Mr. Obama should quickly withdraw most U.S. forces from Afghanistan. American air power and small, flexible Special Forces units are more than enough to wipe out al Qaeda terrorists. The Taliban is too hated to reoccupy the country - unless our huge military and economic footprint drives numerous Afghans into the evil, welcoming arms of extremists.

The plan restores credibility – it’s a shift to a lighter but more sustainable presence 
Stewart, 10 – Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3)

But this moderate tone gains Obama the leverage that Bush lacked. As long as the US asserted that Afghanistan was an existential threat, the front line in the war on terror, and that, therefore, failure was not an option, the US had no leverage over Karzai. The worse Afghanistan behaved—the more drugs it grew and terrorists it fostered—the more money it received. If it sorted out its act, it risked being relegated to a minor charitable recipient like Tajikistan. A senior Afghan official warned me this year “to stop referring to us as a humanitarian crisis: we must be the number one terrorist threat in the world, because if we are not we won’t get any money.” By asserting convincingly that Afghanistan is not the be-all and end-all and that the US could always ultimately withdraw, Obama escapes this codependent trap and regains some leverage over the Afghan government. In his politer words: 
It must be clear that Afghans will have to take responsibility for their security, and that America has no interest in fighting an endless war in Afghanistan. 
But perhaps even more importantly, defining a more moderate and limited strategy gives him leverage over his own generals. By refusing to endorse or use the language of counterinsurgency in the speech, he escapes their doctrinal logic. By no longer committing the US to defeating the Taliban or state-building, he dramatically reduces the objectives and the costs of the mission. By talking about costs, the fragility of public support, and other priorities, he reminds the generals why this surge must be the last. All of this serves to “cap” the troop increases at current levels and provide the justification for beginning to reduce numbers in 2011. 
But the brilliance of its moderate arguments cannot overcome that statement about withdrawal. With seven words, “our troops will begin to come home,” he loses leverage over the Taliban, as well as leverage he had gained over Karzai and the generals. It is a cautious, lawyerly statement, expressed again as “[we will] begin the transfer of our forces out of Afghanistan in July of 2011.” It sets no final exit date or numbers. But the Afghan students who were watching the speech with me ignored these nuances and saw it only as departure. 
This may be fatal for Obama’s ambition to “open the door” to the Taliban. The lighter, more political, and less but still robust militarized presence that his argument implies could facilitate a deal with the Taliban, if it appeared semi-permanent. As the President asserted, the Taliban are not that strong. They have nothing like the strength or appeal that they had in 1995. They cannot take the capital, let alone recapture the country. There is strong opposition to their presence, particularly in the center and the north of the country. Their only hope is to negotiate. But the Taliban need to acknowledge this. And the only way they will is if they believe that we are not going to allow the Kabul government to collapse. 
Afghanistan has been above all a project not of force but of patience. It would take decades before Afghanistan achieved the political cohesion, stability, wealth, government structures, or even basic education levels of Pakistan. A political settlement requires a reasonably strong permanent government. The best argument against the surge, therefore, was never that a US operation without an adequate Afghan government partner would be unable to defeat the Taliban—though it won’t. Nor that the attempt to strengthen the US campaign will intensify resistance, though it may. Nor because such a deployment of over 100,000 troops at a cost of perhaps $100 billion a year would be completely disproportional to the US’s limited strategic interests and moral obligation in Afghanistan—though that too is true. 
Instead, Obama should not have requested more troops because doing so intensifies opposition to the war in the US and Europe and accelerates the pace of withdrawal demanded by political pressures at home. To keep domestic consent for a long engagement we need to limit troop numbers and in particular limit our casualties. The surge is a Mephistophelian bargain, in which the President has gained force but lost time. 
What can now be done to salvage the administration’s position? Obama has acquired leverage over the generals and some support from the public by making it clear that he will not increase troop strength further. He has gained leverage over Karzai by showing that he has options other than investing in Afghanistan. Now he needs to regain leverage over the Taliban by showing them that he is not about to abandon Afghanistan and that their best option is to negotiate. In short, he needs to follow his argument for a call strategy to its conclusion. The date of withdrawal should be recast as a time for reduction to a lighter, more sustainable, and more permanent presence. This is what the administration began to do in the days following the speech. As National Security Adviser General James Jones said, “That date is a ‘ramp’ rather than a cliff.” And as Hillary Clinton said in her congressional testimony on December 3, their real aim should be to “develop a long-term sustainable relationship with Afghanistan and Pakistan so that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past, primarily our abandonment of that region.”
A more realistic, affordable, and therefore sustainable presence would not make Afghanistan stable or predictable. It would be merely a small if necessary part of an Afghan political strategy. The US and its allies would only moderate, influence, and fund a strategy shaped and led by Afghans themselves. The aim would be to knit together different Afghan interests and allegiances sensitively enough to avoid alienating independent local groups, consistently enough to regain their trust, and robustly enough to restore the security and justice that Afghans demand and deserve from a national government. 
What would this look like in practice? Probably a mess. It might involve a tricky coalition of people we refer to, respectively, as Islamists, progressive civil society, terrorists, warlords, learned technocrats, and village chiefs. Under a notionally democratic constitutional structure, it could be a rickety experiment with systems that might, like Afghanistan’s neighbors, include strong elements of religious or military rule. There is no way to predict what the Taliban might become or what authority a national government in Kabul could regain. Civil war would remain a possibility. But an intelligent, long-term, and tolerant partnership with the United States could reduce the likelihood of civil war and increase the likelihood of a political settlement. This is hardly the stuff of sound bites and political slogans. But it would be better for everyone than boom and bust, surge and flight. With the right patient leadership, a political strategy could leave Afghanistan in twenty years’ time more prosperous, stable, and humane than it is today. That would be excellent for Afghans and good for the world.
Meanwhile, Obama’s broader strategic argument must not be lost. He has grasped that the foreign policy of the president should not consist in a series of extravagant, brief, Manichaean battles, driven by exaggerated fears, grandiloquent promises, and fragile edifices of doctrine. Instead the foreign policy of a great power should be the responsible exercise of limited power and knowledge in concurrent situations of radical uncertainty. Obama, we may hope, will develop this elusive insight. And then it might become possible to find the right places in which to deploy the wealth, the courage, and the political capital of the United States. We might hope in South Asia, for example, for a lighter involvement in Afghanistan but a much greater focus on Kashmir.1 

Even if withdrawal damages cred—sticking it out to fail is worse, causing precipitous pullout
Innocent and Carpenter, 9 - foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)
Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global Status

Former national security adviser Henry Kissinger, Council on Foreign Relations scholar Stephen Biddle, and many others, concede that the war in Central Asia will be long, expensive, and risky, yet they claim it is ultimately worth waging because a withdrawal would boost jihadism globally and make America look weak.26 But what we’ve invested in the Afghanistan mission could all fall apart whether we withdraw tomorrow or 20 years from now. In fact, if leaving would make America look weak, trying to stay indefinitely while accomplishing little would appear even worse. If the issue is preventing U.S. soldiers from having died in vain, pursuing a losing strategy would not vindicate their sacrifice. And trying to pacify all of Afghanistan, much less hoping to do so on a permanent basis, is a losing strategy.
Regardless, some people invoke memories of America’s ignominious withdrawals from Vietnam, Somalia, and Lebanon to muster support for an open-ended commitment. President Bush in 2007 claimed that withdrawing from Vietnam emboldened today’s terrorists by compromising U.S. credibility. “Here at home,” he said, “some can argue our withdrawal from Vietnam carried no price to American credibility, but the terrorists see things differently.”27 Michael Rubin of the American Enterprise Institute agrees with that reasoning, writing that “the 1983 withdrawal from Lebanon and the retreat from Somalia a decade later emboldened Islamists who saw the United States as a paper tiger.”28
When opinion leaders in Washington talk about “lessons learned” from Vietnam, Somalia, Lebanon, and other conflicts, they typically draw the wrong lesson: not that America should avoid intervening in someone else’s domestic dispute, but that America should never give up after having intervened, no matter what the cost.29 But the longer we stay and the more money we spend, the more we’ll feel compelled to remain in the country to validate the investment. A similar self-imposed predicament plagued U.S. officials during the war in Vietnam:
After 1968 it became increasingly clear that the survival of the [government of South Vietnam] was not worth the cost of securing it, but by then the United States had another rationale for staying— prestige and precedent setting. The United States said the [South Vietnamese government] would stand, and even those in the administration now long convinced of the hollowness of the domino argument could agree that a U.S. failure in South Vietnam might endanger vital US national interests elsewhere or in the future.30
For decades, the fear of America losing the world’s respect after withdrawing from a conflict has been instrumental in selling the American public bad foreign policy.
Perhaps most troubling about the reflexively “stay the course” mentality of some Americans is the widespread insensitivity about the thousands of people—civilian and military, domestic and foreign—killed, maimed, and traumatized in war. But when the stakes seem unrelated to vital national interests, the American public rightly resents their country’s interference in third party problems, and is extremely skeptical of nation building. History shows that, sooner or later, disenchantment will manifest in public and congressional opposition. After nearly a decade in Afghanistan, even the memory of 9/11 might not be sufficient to outweigh the sacrifice in blood and treasure.
Perhaps the most important argument against the “withdrawal is weak-kneed” meme is that America’s military roams the planet, controls the skies and space, faces no peer competitor, and wields one of the planet’s largest nuclear arsenals. America is responsible for almost half of the world’s military spending and can project its power around the globe. Thus, the contention that America would appear “weak” after withdrawing from Afghanistan is ludicrous.
Unfortunately, bureaucratic inertia and a misplaced conception of Washington’s moral obligations (an argument that more often than not legitimizes America’s military occupation of a foreign people) threaten to trap the United States in Afghanistan for decades. Overall, remaining in Afghanistan is more likely to tarnish America’s reputation and undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal.

Also, perception of the Afghanistan quagmire destroys deterrence and hamstrings the military
Haass 12/20 (Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10)
http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html

To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward Afghanistan this spring, President Obama would need to cite several factors. First, the U.S. inability to eliminate the sanctuaries in Pakistan. Second, successful counterinsurgency depends on having a solid local partner. Two years of sustained investment and multiple but fraudulent elections suggest that Afghanistan's central government will not reach the point where it is considered effective or legitimate by the bulk of its own people. All this argues for adopting a policy of counterterrorism rather than state-building.
There are also broader reasons to recast policy. The greatest threat to U.S. national security stems from our own fiscal crisis. Afghanistan is a significant contributor to this situation and could play an important role in reducing it. A savings of $75 billion a year could help finance much-needed military modernization and reduce the deficit.
Another factor is the increased possibility of a conflict with a reckless North Korea and the continued possibility of a confrontation with Iran over its nuclear program. U.S. military forces must be freed up to contend with these issues. The perception that we are tied down in Afghanistan makes it more difficult to threaten North Korea or Iran credibly—and makes it more difficult to muster the forces to deal with either if necessary.
Ultimately Afghanistan is a strategic distraction. U.S. interests there are limited. So, too, are the resources available for national security. It is not surprising that the commander in the field, Gen. David Petraeus, is calling for committing greater resources to the theater. But it is the commander-in-chief's responsibility to take into account the nation's capacity to meet all of its challenges, national and international. It is for this reason that the perspectives of Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge.

Afghanistan trades off with other key priorities
Cordesman 12/10 (Anthony H. Cordesman, Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy, Center for Strategic and International Studies, recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal, frequently acts as a consultant to the U.S. State Department, Defense Department, and intelligence community, former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, served in numerous other government positions, including in the State Department and on NATO International Staff, “AMERICA’S WARS IN AFGHANISTAN, PAKISTAN, AND IRAQ: THE CHALLENGE OF GRAND STRATEGY, An Address to the Industrial College of the Armed Forces,” 12/10/10) http://csis.org/files/publication/101213_Iraq_and_Afghan_Talk_Edited.pdf

Reassessing Our Grand Strategic Posture in Central Asia
These same issues illustrate why we need to evaluate our grand strategic commitment to Afghanistan andPakistan in a way that makes hard choices about our future posture in Central Asia. We need to debate exactly what US goals are in all of Central Asia, and what overall level of continued US effort is really justified.
A look at the map and the region's infrastructure also makes it clear that Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia are natural Russian and Chinese spheres of influence in political, military, economic, and energy terms. If we limit our role to conventional diplomacy and military advisory roles, Russia and China will have to do what they can to bring stability and security to the region. Iran and India, and other peripheral powers will have to play a far greater role.
“Strategic neglect” is not an American strength, and neither is “strategic triage.” We cannot afford grand strategies,however, that ignore the need to make far harder choices on a global level. If the costs and risks of a major US commitment in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia remain this high, or continue to grow, this is one "Great Game" that can best be won by refusing to play it. There are simply too many complex ethnic, sectarian, tribal, and other national tensions in this region for a US to manage the end result. We have too many other interests in Asia, Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East where we already have vital strategic interests, and face problems that challenge our capabilities and resources.
Avoiding Limited Wars That Commit the Bulk of US Ground Forces and US Civil-
Military Resources to Open-Ended Armed Nation Building
More broadly, we need to consider what a near decade of conflict should shows about the way we risk making major long-term commitment of scarce US military forces and civil aid capabilities in the future, and about the need to find better ways to use our resources. It shows that we have to be far more careful about letting limited involvement escalate into “worst case wars” in one narrow part of the world.
We may not like to face the fact that we are actively involved in armed nation building, and that this can be a “worst case” form of limited war. The fact is, however, that we did escalate to this level in Iraq, we are still fighting on this level in Afghanistan, and we have a growing involvement in Pakistan.
They have tied up an immense proportion of the US defense budget, US forces, and scarce aid and development expertise in extremely high-risk commitments to a given conflict whose scale and duration cannot be predicted and run a constant risk of serious escalation and/or failure. Moreover, it is more than doubtful that the US would have escalated or engaged in any of its these wars in the way it did if their costs and risks had been properly assessed before or during the initial phase of military and stability operations. Such wars may become necessary in the future, but we need to consider the cost-benefits of this approach to making strategic commitments even when we have valid grand strategic needs, and the cost-benefits of alternative approaches. The US needs to do a far better job of considering alternative strategies and grand strategies that put far more emphasis on containment and deterrence; on reacting decisively before wars escalate to this level of requirements, and building on allies at moderate cost rather than fighting and spending in broken states.
In the process, the US also needs to be far more realistic about its severe real-world limits as a military “superpower.” The Iraq and Afghan/Pakistan wars have shown that the US now effectively has the land forces for one major regional contingency and no practical prospect of increasing them. These are the same forces that would have to help South Korea in a crisis or any other partner that required US support in a conventional war.

Expanding Taliban and European withdrawals will force additional future deployments just to avoid a loss
Dorronsoro 2010 (November, Gilles Dorronsoro, - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, “Afghanistan at the Breaking Point,” November 2010) http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_break_point.pdf

The southern strategy presumed swift successes, which would help establish a national dynamic, but the stalemate is radically changing the situation. The coalition’s best troops will be in Helmand province and Kandahar for the next several years, which forces it to assume a defensive stance in the rest of the country. However, the opening of new fronts in the north and the Taliban’s aggressiveness in the east indicate that the insurgency could break down the Western defense system in 2011 or 2012. A relatively small number of troops—only 11,000 in the north and 8,500 in Kabul—face a growing insurgency. The European contingents, who are less war-hardened, will fi nd themselves in an unmanageable situation; increased attacks against them will force them into increasingly defensive postures. They are leaving their bases less often, giving free rein to the Taliban to organize large-scale attacks against the most isolated NATO outposts and force a retreat after years of combat, as occurred this past April in the Korengal Valley. Logistics will become increasingly complex, and more troops are dying in insurgent attacks on the main roads, including those into Pakistan.
It is therefore hard to imagine maintaining or decreasing troop strength in 2011. To the contrary, in the absence of a political process, the coalition will have to strengthen its force through one of three options: an internal reorganization, the “Afghanization” of security, or
sending in reinforcements.
Option 1: Internal reorganization Can the coalition adapt? At this stage, it is hard to be optimistic about NATO’s ability to reform itself to counter the Taliban’s progress. The coalition consistently has failed to react swiftly to known problems. It is a bureaucratic machine oriented toward its own (admittedly highly complex) management, not toward problem solving. Those in charge still defi ne success in terms of inputs (resources) and outputs (actions), not outcomes (effects). NATO logistics are a disaster, because the Taliban extort logistics companies; the coalition is thus fi nancing its enemy. In addition, private security fi rms in charge of convoy security are corrupt and often create tensions with the local population. Yet it took a U.S. Senate report (Warlords, Inc.), commissioned following a series of press articles, to offi cially raise the issue. Nothing indicates that things are changing on the ground. Western armies’ effectiveness is hampered by three types of obstacles: intellectual, human, and tactical. The war is being conceived on the basis of false theories that are not being called into question as a result of failures. The coalition continues to base its actions on a false vision of the adversary and on hypotheses that long have been debunked. The relationship between development aid and security, for example, has long been challenged. 26 Increasing aid to areas rife with violence only fuels the war economy; it does not translate into political support. The tribal policy is another example of intellectual constructions without a serious empirical basis that are reiterated nonetheless. 27 The idea of dividing the Taliban in order to co-opt smaller groups has been put forward for AFGHANISTAN AT THE BREAKING POINT 25 years, although it has never yielded results. Pakistan obviously has no desire to break off its relations with the Taliban, although U.S. policy remains based on the idea of a bargain in which it provides aid to Pakistan in exchange for action against the Taliban. Why have U.S. forces not learned from past mistakes? Part of the explanation is the use of security specialists (in terrorism and counterinsurgency) who lack knowledge of Afghan society. It is revealing, in this regard, that the civilian commission that established COIN’s principles in the summer of 2009 did not include a single Afghanistan specialist. It seems that the dominant analysis—the one heeded by the U.S. command—is essentially internal, produced as a result of stays on coalition bases. Leaders must consider the analyses of other experts, if only to avoid fi ascos as predictable as Marja. The coalition does not have the necessary human resources to implement the COIN. Coalition forces’ programs lack continuity, and personnel turn over so quickly that they have few relationships with Afghan society—or time to build them. The personnel change on average every six months, although some individuals carry out several tours of duty (not necessarily in the same place). The lack of institutional memory is a key problem in Afghanistan. There is a shortage of translators, who are often insuffi ciently trained 28 and, for security reasons, often work outside of their native region, giving rise to linguistic and cultural misunderstandings. The coalition has a limited awareness of its own history, which is why proposals that have failed many times are regularly re-presented. This lack of continuity in programs enables a proliferation of initiatives that undergo regular name changes (such as the militia programs), and whose results are never really evaluated. The coalition’s tactical repertoire is limited and predictable. Compared with similar wars, Western troops move very slowly, which CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 26 GILLES DORRONSORO rules out the element of surprise. On average, coalition soldiers carry several dozen kilos on operations. Coalition forces have never attempted helicopter operations in which troops are dropped off on ridges in order to clear the area. Troop movements take an extremely long time to prepare because of the threat of IEDs; advancing a few kilometers can often take several hours. Outside of Special Forces operations, there is no element of surprise, because the Taliban are highly skilled at reading the coalition’s movements. Patrols are largely ineffective, with coalition soldiers remaining in villages for at most a few hours. European troops have instructions to limit losses, which constrains their tactical options. Their practices are essentially defensive; for example, they cannot pursue the adversary if ambushed. European troops are focused on troop protection, not on seeking or destroying the enemy. Option 2: Afghanization Could Afghan forces signifi cantly contribute to operations? Continuing training and developing the Afghan forces remain a priority, even in the event of a political solution. However, all indications are that they will not be able to take over from Western forces, even on a local level, for a number of years, and even then solely for defensive actions. A less-than-selective recruitment process has permitted the Taliban to infi ltrate the troops 29 and refl ects the The lack of institutional memory is a key problem in Afghanistan. AFGHANISTAN AT THE BREAKING POINT 27 regime’s lack of legitimacy. Thus far, particularly in Marja, Afghan forces have played a purely symbolic role 30 ; their independent operation in Laghman province in August 2010 was a fi asco. 31 Afghan forces will not be able to withstand a Taliban advance; at best they can defend their own bases or guarantee urban centers (up to a certain point). Some commentators hope that partitioning the country could lead coalition forces to leave. The fi ght would then pit a Talibandominated south against a pro-Western north. For example, a proposal by Robert Blackwill, former U.S. ambassador to India, to divide Afghanistan is based on the idea that the Afghan state is an artifi cial construct, and Afghan territory could be divided along ethnic lines. In practice, this would suppose large-scale ethnic cleansing; hundreds of thousands of Pashtuns would probably be forced to leave the north. The Afghan army would become what it is already tending toward: a force dominated by Tajiks (notably Panjshiris) and Uzbeks. We would offer the Afghan Taliban an agreement in which neither side seeks to enlarge its territory—if the Taliban stopped supporting terrorism, a proposal that they would almost certainly reject. We would then make it clear that we would rely heavily on U.S. air power and Special Forces to target any Al Qaeda base in Afghanistan, as well as Afghan Taliban leaders who aided them. We would also target Afghan Taliban encroachments across the de facto partition lines and terrorist sanctuaries along the Pakistan border. Though careful analysis is needed, this might mean a longtime residual U.S. military force in Afghanistan of about 40,000 to 50,000 troops. We would enlist Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras and supportive Pashtuns in this endeavor, as well as our NATO allies, Russia, India, Iran, perhaps China, Central Asian nations and, one hopes, the U.N. Security Council. 32 CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 28 GILLES DORRONSORO Blackwill does not explain why the Taliban should accept such a proposal when their bases in the north are rapidly growing. Such a policy would be disastrous. Paradoxically, the insurgency would fi nd itself in the position of acting as the representative of the Afghan nation in the face of an alliance of regional and international forces that are weakening central institutions. The destabilization of Pakistan is a grave danger, because the Afghan-Pakistani border (which is not recognized by Afghanistan) would disappear, with consequences for Balochistan. Even from a Western or Indian standpoint, that situation is unfavorable: Losing control over the border areas would allow all jihadist groups to fi nd sanctuary there. Proposing Afghanistan’s partition destabilizes the country by reviving Afghan fears of manipulation by imperial powers; it strengthens mistrust of the international community. Even in a more nuanced form, proposals of “decentralization” and other forms of devolution barely conceal the desire to bypass and weaken Kabul. Such talk would have the same destabilizing effects on Afghanistan and Pakistan.
If the Taliban cannot be contained through improvements in coalition forces’ performance or by Afghanizing the war, then more troops must be sent to Afghanistan. Since strengthening the Afghan security system would take a decade in the best-case scenario, the implicit length of time for the coalition would be ten to fifteen years. Precise calculations are diffi cult, but tens of thousands of men would be required to merely contain the Taliban; many more would be required for the coalition, with heavy losses, to adopt an offensive stance and win back territory (see Figure 3).
In addition, the United States would probably have to replace the European forces, which most likely will be gone before 2015. Decisions made in Washington are placing other NATO members in increasingly diffi cult positions. The conduct of strategy has become purely American, and the risk of unilateral withdrawal by the allies is growing. European populations are increasingly opposed to the war in Afghanistan; following the Iraqi experience, it is hard for a European government to defy popular opinion for too long. Dutch troops left Afghanistan in August 2010, and Canada plans to withdraw its troops in 2011. Great Britain publicly reiterated its decision to withdraw its combat troops before 2015, Poland is envisioning 2013, and Spain is also leaning toward an early withdrawal. Opposition parties, notably in France, are challenging the consensus on the presence of their troops in Afghanistan. European governments especially—now including Great Britain—are placing implicit political conditions on loss levels. In the current circumstances— with a strategy seen as hardly credible and the political cost of leaving quickly decreasing—the only rational decision for European countries is to unilaterally set a withdrawal deadline. The departure of European troops will have to be compensated by the addition of tens of thousands of American troops. With a plurality of Americans now opposed to the war, political support for a military escalation is probably insuffi cient. 33
The argument that we cannot judge the strategy until next year is weak because, as we have seen, the strategy has changed and the operations under way in the south cannot change the national dynamic.
34
But many pundits are hoping for a reversal of the situation along the lines of what happened in post-surge Iraq. The comparison with Iraq is intellectually inconsistent, and it stands in the way of a rational policy in Afghanistan. 35
In fact, that comparison has an essentially moral and political dimension, with no analytical value as far as the effective conduct of the war is concerned. The narrative of the surge is based on the idea that at a time when most analysts believed the situation in Iraq to be desperate, the U.S. army took risks and found the solution. The surge in Afghanistan would therefore be a test of military, rather than civilian, leadership. But for the coalition, the immediate and deferred costs of waiting are so large that the political leadership must put the war in Afghanistan back into perspective compared with other national priorities. Indeed, the importance of this theater to American interests doesn’t justify the fi nancial and human burden induced by the presence of more than 100,000 U.S. troops. 

Overstretch risks miscalculation and great power war
Gordon 7 – chief military correspondent for the New York Times (Michael, Survival, Break Point? Iraq and America’s Military Forces, http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/media/e2wquwrwth0v8u1trg3h/contributions/m/7/6/7/m76738823338363h.pdf) 

A greater worry has been the operational availability of American ground forces. The army has a system for deploying the 42 new Brigade Combat Teams it is establishing as part of an ongoing programme to restructure its units. The goal is for an active brigade to spend two years at home for each year it is deployed overseas. So many units are needed for the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, however, that combat brigades are generally spending only a year at home for each year they are deployed. As one general put it, the brigades are either deployed, have just got back or are preparing to rotate back to Iraq and Afghanistan again. As a consequence, no more than a handful – perhaps as few as two or three Brigade Combat Teams – are immediately available for contingencies elsewhere. The shortage of forces has also constrained training. Since the focus is on Iraq and Afghanistan and combat troops generally spend only a year in the United States before rotating back, the army has essentially abandoned brigade- level heavy mechanised training at the National Training Center. Concerns have grown within the military establishment that the army may be raising a new group of young lieutenants and captains with little experience in high-intensity warfare against heavily equipped armies like North Korea’s. An unexpected crisis on the Korean Peninsula or another trouble-spot would likely force the army to take extraordinary measures. It could respond to the crisis by dispatching troops that had been earmarked for duty in Iraq and by simultaneously extending the deployment of troops already in Iraq well beyond the normal year-long tour of duty. Surging forces in Iraq would likely involve a similar extension of deployment tours. Such a move, however, would risk future difficulties in retaining officers in an all-volunteer force and might stretch the army to the breaking point. The Marine Corps is encountering similar strains. Of the 24 infantry battalions in the active force, nine are deployed, including three Marine Expeditionary Units. Seventy percent of the marine battalions that are deployed are located in the Central Command’s area of responsibility, meaning the Middle East and southwest Asia. The marines generally deploy for seven months instead of a year, but the strain has been similar. Marine units have generally been home only eight or nine months for each seven months they are deployed. Much of their training is geared to counter-insurgency. The marines are not training for high-intensity warfare at the battalion or higher level as much as in the past. To cope with the demands, both services anticipate greater use of the reserves. Army officials have already told Rumsfeld aides that they may be forced to make greater use of the National Guard. Following extensive use in Iraq, the National Guard set a goal of allowing five years at home between foreign deployments so as not to disrupt the family life and careers of its citizen soldiers. Greater use of the Guard would require that this goal be sacrificed. As for the marines, of the six reserve battalions, one has been deployed for almost two years and is currently off-limits. The remaining five have been deployed for about a year, and the marines sought and received authority from Rumsfeld to use them for one more year. In addition, the marines said in August 2006 that they will call back as many as 2,500 members of its Individual Ready Reserve, a pool of manpower that the marines had not tapped since 2003 and which is used to fill military specialities in times of national emergency. Such moves, however, are merely expedient measures. It is not simply a matter of enduring strain on the force. The limited number of ground troops has already had deleterious consequences. In Iraq, the limited numbers of forces have hampered American operations, delaying progress and prolonging the day when American forces might be able to go home. The 2005 operations by the Army’s Third Armored Cavalry Regiment in Tal Afar demonstrated what can be accomplished by an astute commander who is sensitive to the needs of the local population and has the necessary forces to establish control. The regiment worked with Iraqi security forces to clear Tal Afar of insurgents, to hold the town with Iraqi and American troops, then to encourage reconstruction there, an approach known as ’clear, hold, build’. The new counter-insurgency manual hailed the operation, as did Bush. But the reality is that such operations are troop intensive. ‘The units that have sufficient forces are applying the doctrine with good effect’, said one military officer who recently returned from Iraq. ’Those units without sufficient forces can only conduct raids to disrupt the enemy while protecting themselves. They can’t do enough to protect the population effectively and partner with Iraqi forces.‘8 Indeed, an instructive case history that is not included in the new counter- insurgency manual shows how efforts can be set back due to insufficient forces. To mass enough troops to retake Fallujah in the autumn of 2004 the marines drew forces from Haditha, essentially leaving the town at the mercy of the insur- gents. What followed was a devastating setback for the American effort to carry out counter-insurgency operations in the violent al-Anbar province. While the Americans were securing Fallujah the Iraqi police in Haditha were accosted by insurgents and executed. The episode left the town without a police force that could check the operations of the insurgents and taught the Iraqis there that the Americans could not be counted on to protect their nascent institutions, what- ever their good intentions. It also made the task of recruiting a new police force all but impossible. When follow-on marine units were deployed to Haditha their efforts to mount a police recruitment drive failed, forcing the marines to think about seeking police recruits from other parts of the country. Without adequate force levels, operations in al-Anbar became a strategic version of the Whac-a-Mole arcade game in which a target is struck only to appear elsewhere. When American forces massed troops to clear one area they left another area poorly protected, creating a vacuum that the insurgents eagerly filled.9 The consequences were summed up in an intelligence report that was prepared by Multinational Forces-West, the American command for the western area. Outside of islands of relative stability like Fallujah and al-Qaim, cleared in large-scale combat operations by American troops, the dominant force was not the American military or the new Iraqi government, but al-Qaeda in Mesopotamia. The report estimated that the deployment of a coalition division and a massive infusion of aid, neither of which were in the offing, were required to reverse the deteriorating security conditions.10 The risks presented by a constrained number of ground forces extend beyond Iraq. They raise the possibility that an adversary might miscalculate, projecting that it can undertake provocative actions that the United States would find it difficult to respond to. The Iraq War was intended by the Bush administration as a demonstration of American power and resolve that would serve as a cautionary lesson to nations like Iran, which is pursuing a nuclear-weapons capability, or Syria, which has supported Hizbullah. With the difficulties of the United States in Iraq, the lesson has backfired. But the limited number of forces may add to the perception that the United States is bogged down in Iraq and unable to respond adequately to other contingencies

And it causes political exhaustion, withdrawal helps our reserves
Kretkowski, 10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)

Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: I now oppose a counterinsurgency (COIN) strategy in Afghanistan and advocate a purely counterterror (CT) strategy (PDF link) there instead.
Blame history—or histories—that I've read recently, starting with Livy's works on early Rome (books I-V) last spring and Donald Kagan's The Peloponnesian War at the end of 2009. I've taken occasional dips back into Robert Kaplan's Warrior Politics and his source materials (Churchill, the Federalists, Machiavelli, Sun Tzu, and several others).
What I've taken from that reading is that the U.S. must pull back from its current efforts to remake Iraq and Afghanistan in the image of a Western democracy, or risk long-term political and economic exhaustion.
What follows is not an argument about morality, and readers may find much of it amoral. It is about making cold-blooded political and economic calculations about where U.S. national interests will lie in the next decade. They do not lie in an open-ended COIN mission.
The history of the Peloponnesian War is particularly relevant here. Athens began fighting Sparta with the resources of an empire and thousands of talents of silver in the bank—enough to fight expensive, far-flung naval and land campaigns for three years without lasting financial consequences.
Athens was rich, and if peace with Sparta had come by the end of the third year, Athens would have continued to prosper and rule over much of the Mediterranean. (Athens had a "hard"—conquered or cowed—empire as opposed to the "soft" empire of alliances and treaties the U.S. currently has.)
But the war with Sparta dragged on for decades, despite occasional peace overtures by both sides. By war's end—despite the spoils of battle and increased taxes and tribute extracted from its shrinking dominion—Athens was broke, depopulated by fighting and plague, bereft of its empire, and could no longer project power into the Mediterranean. Where its former interests ranged from Black Sea Turkey to southern Italy, it spent decades as a small-bore power and never regained its former strength or influence.
I worry that the U.S. is similarly locked into an open-ended commitment to democratize a nation that is of regional rather than global importance—a parallel to Athens convincing itself that it had to conquer distant, militarily insignificant Sicily.
"Winning" in Afghanistan
The U.S. could "win" in Afghanistan where victory is defined as a stable, legitimate central government that can project power within its own borders. I don't doubt that the U.S. and its allies could accomplish this given enough time and resources. But I think—as many COIN experts also do—that it will take at least another decade or more of blood and treasure to produce such a result, if ever.
Of course I'd like to see the results of a successful COIN campaign: a stable democracy, women's rights, and general prosperity for Afghans, who among all Asia's peoples surely deserve those things. I certainly want to end al-Qa'ida's ability to operate freely in South Asia and elsewhere.
The U.S. is the only country that would both conceive of these missions and attempt to carry them out. But goals beyond keeping al-Qa'ida on the run don't serve the long-term interests of the U.S., and I am more interested in regaining and preserving U.S. hard power than I am in the rewards that would come from "winning" a lengthy COIN war.
I fear the U.S. people and government becoming exhausted from the costs of a lengthy COIN effort, just as they are already exhausted from (and have largely forgotten about) the Iraq war. I worry that if this fatigue sits in, the U.S. will abandon foreign-policy leadership as it has done periodically throughout history.
This outcome would be worse than a resurgent Taliban, worse than Afghan women and men being further oppressed, and worse than al-Qa'ida having plentiful additional caves to plot in.
Here are some signs of an exhaustion of U.S. power: The U.S. is already overextended, with commitments in Iraq (shrinking for now), Afghanistan (expanding), Yemen (pending) and Iran (TBD). At home, the U.S. economy remains feeble and in the long term is increasingly hostage to other nations for goods and services it no longer produces (and increasingly, no longer can produce).
Even more worrisome is the U.S. credit situation. The wars, and much other U.S. government spending, are now heavily underwritten by other countries' purchases of debt the U.S. issues. It has borrowed trillions from foreign countries and especially China, which continues its steady, highly rational policy of promoting exports while freeriding under the American security umbrella (just as the U.S. once rode for free beneath Britain's).
Over time, those countries accrue enough debt to have a say in U.S. policies that may threaten the dollar's value, which is why you now see high U.S. officials flying to Beijing to soothe PRC nerves and explain why America keeps borrowing money.
At home, there are few resources to apply following a major disaster, such as a Katrina-style hurricane or a major earthquake.
The U.S. needs to start rebuilding its reserves—of capital, of credit, of political goodwill abroad, of military force—to be ready for these and more serious crises, for which we currently have few resources to spare. Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis); Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).

We’re not invincible – the plan is key to husband American power and stave off disastrous apolarity
Robert Kaplan 12/5, Center for a New American Security senior fellow, The Atlantic Correspondent, 12/5/2010, "A world with no one in charge," http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/03/AR2010120306537.html, 12/6/2010

Currency wars. Terrorist attacks. Military conflicts. Rogue regimes pursuing nuclear weapons. Collapsing states. And now, massive leaks of secret documents. What is the cause of such turbulence? The absence of empire.
During the Cold War, the world was divided between the Soviet and U.S. imperial systems. The Soviet imperium - heir to Kievan Rus, medieval Muscovy and the Romanov dynasty - covered Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia and propped up regimes in Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. The American imperium - heir to maritime Venice and Great Britain - also propped up allies, particularly in Western Europe and East Asia. True to the garrison tradition of imperial Rome, Washington kept bases in West Germany, Turkey, South Korea and Japan, virtually surrounding the Soviet Union.
The breakup of the Soviet empire, though it caused euphoria in the West and led to freedom in Central Europe, also sparked ethnic conflicts in the Balkans and the Caucasus that cost hundreds of thousands of lives and created millions of refugees. (In Tajikistan alone, more than 50,000 people were killed in a civil war that barely registered in the U.S. media in the 1990s.)
The Soviet collapse also unleashed economic and social chaos in Russia itself, as well as the further unmooring of the Middle East. It was no accident that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait less than a year after the Berlin Wall fell, just as it is inconceivable that the United States would have invaded Iraq if the Soviet Union, a staunch patron of Baghdad, still existed in 2003. And had the Soviet empire not fallen apart or ignominiously withdrawn from Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden never would have taken refuge there and the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, might not have happened. Such are the wages of imperial collapse.
Now the other pillar of the relative peace of the Cold War, the United States, is slipping, while new powers such as China and India remain unready and unwilling to fill the void. There will be no sudden breakdown on our part, as the United States, unlike the Soviet Union, is sturdily maintained by economic and political freedom. Rather, America's ability to bring a modicum of order to the world is simply fading in slow motion.
The days of the U.S. dollar as the world's reserve currency are numbered, just as our diplomacy is hobbled by wide-ranging security leaks that are specific to an age of electronic communication, itself hostile to imperial rule.
Then there is America's military power. Armies win wars, but in an age when the theater of conflict is global, navies and air forces are more accurate registers of national might. (Any attack on Iran, for example, would be a sea and air campaign.) The U.S. Navy has gone from nearly 600 warships in the Reagan era to fewer than 300 today, while the navies of China and India grow apace. Such trends will accelerate with the defense cuts that are surely coming in order to rescue America from its fiscal crisis. The United States still dominates the seas and the air and will do so for years ahead, but the distance between it and other nations is narrowing.
Terrorist acts, ethnic atrocities, the yearning after horrible weaponry and the disclosure of secret cables are the work of individuals who cannot escape their own moral responsibility. But the headlines of our era are written in a specific context - that of one deceased empire that used to be the world's preeminent land power and of another, the world's preeminent sea power, that finds itself less able to affect events than ever before, even as it is less sure than ever of the cause toward which it struggles.
This is no indictment of President Obama's foreign policy. There is slim evidence of a credible alternative to his actions on North Korea, Iran and Iraq, while a feisty debate goes on over the proper course in Afghanistan. But there is simply no doubt that the post-imperial order we inhabit allows for greater disruptions than the Cold War ever permitted.
Husbanding our power in an effort to slow America's decline in a post-Iraq and post-Afghanistan world would mean avoiding debilitating land entanglements and focusing instead on being more of an offshore balancer: that is, lurking with our air and sea forces over the horizon, intervening only when outrages are committed that unquestionably threaten our allies and world order in general. While this may be in America's interest, the very signaling of such an aloof intention may encourage regional bullies, given that rogue regimes are the organizing principles for some pivotal parts of the world.
North Korea already plows onward with its nuclear weapons program, even as it lobs artillery shells on a South Korean island, demonstrating the limits of both U.S. and Chinese power in a semi-anarchic world. During the Cold War, North Korea was kept in its box by the Soviet Union while the U.S. Navy dominated the Pacific as though it were an American lake. Now China's economic dominance of the region, coupled with our distracting land wars in the Middle East, is transforming the western Pacific from a benign and stable environment to a more uncertain and complex one.
China's navy is decades behind America's, but that should offer little consolation. The United States, having just experienced asymmetric warfare on land, should now expect asymmetric challenges at sea. With its improving mine-warfare capability, seabed sonar networks and cyber-warfare in the service of anti-ship ballistic missiles, not to mention its diesel-electric and nuclear submarines, China will make U.S. Navy operations more dangerous over the coming years.
As for Taiwan, China has 1,500 short-range ballistic missiles pointed at the island, even as hundreds of commercial flights each week link Taiwan with the mainland in peaceful commerce. When China effectively incorporates Taiwan in the years to come, that will signal the arrival of a truly multipolar and less predictable military environment in East Asia.
In the Middle East we see the real collapse of the Cold War imperial order. The neat Israeli-Arab dichotomy that mirrored the American-Soviet one has been replaced by a less stable power arrangement, with a zone of Iranian influence stretching from Lebanon to western Afghanistan, pitted against both Israel and the Sunni Arab world, and with a newly Islamic, and no longer pro-Western, Turkey rising as a balancing power.
Yes, empires impose order, but that order is not necessarily benevolent, as Iran's budding imperial domain shows. U.S. threats against Iran lack credibility precisely because of our imperial fatigue resulting from Iraq and Afghanistan. Out of self-interest we will probably not involve ourselves in another war in the Middle East - even as that very self-interest could consign the region to a nuclear standoff.
One standard narrative is that as we recede, China will step up as part of a benign post-American world. But this presupposes that all imperial powers are the same, even when history clearly demonstrates that they are not. Nor does one empire sequentially fill the gap left by another.
While the Soviet Union and the United States were both missionary powers motivated by ideals - communism and liberal democracy - through which they might order the world, China has no such grand conception. It is driven abroad by the hunger for natural resources (hydrocarbons, minerals and metals) that it requires to raise hundreds of millions of its citizens into the middle class.
This could abet the development of a trading system between the Indian Ocean, Africa and Central Asia that might maintain peace with minimal American involvement. But who is to fill the moral void? Does China really care if Tehran develops nuclear weapons, so long as it has access to Iran's natural gas? And Beijing may not be entirely comfortable with the North Korean regime, which keeps its population in a state of freeze-frame semi-starvation, but China props it up nevertheless.
It can be argued that with power comes moral responsibility, but it will probably be decades before China has the kind of navy and air force that would lead it to become an authentic partner in an international security system. For the moment, Beijing gets a free ride off the protection of the world's sea lanes that the U.S. Navy helps provide, and watches us struggle to stabilize Afghanistan and Pakistan so that China can one day extract their natural resources.
If the Cold War was an epoch of relative stability, guaranteed by a tacit understanding among empires, we now have one waning empire, that of the United States, trying to bring order amid a world of rising and sometimes hostile powers.
Looming over all of this is the densely crowded global map. Across Eurasia, rural populations have given way to megacities prone to incitement by mass media and to destruction by environmental catastrophe. Lumbering, hard-to-deploy armies are being replaced with overlapping ballistic missile ranges that demonstrate the delivery capabilities of weapons of mass destruction. New technologies make everything affect everything else at a faster and more lethal rate than ever before. The free flow of information, as the WikiLeaks scandal makes clear, and the miniaturization of weaponry, as the terrorist bombings in Pakistani cities make clear, work against the rise and sustenance of imperial orders.
The American empire has always been more structural than spiritual. Its network of alliances certainly resembles those of empires past, and the challenges facing its troops abroad are comparable to those of imperial forces of yore, though the American public, especially after the debacles in Iraq and Afghanistan, is in no mood for any more of the land-centric adventures that have been the stuff of imperialism since antiquity.
Americans rightly lack an imperial mentality. But lessening our engagement with the world would have devastating consequences for humanity. The disruptions we witness today are but a taste of what is to come should our country flinch from its international responsibilities.

Heg is good
Thayer, 6 – professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei¬ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri¬macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in¬terests. But retrenchment, in any of its guis¬es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that would lead to far greater instability and war in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa¬bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa¬bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri¬macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action¬ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur¬ing American primacy takes as its starting point the protec¬tion of the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like oil flow around the world, that the global trade and monetary regimes flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re¬trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, retrenchment will make the United States less secure than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because threats will exist no mat¬ter what role America chooses to play in international politics. Washington can¬not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. Whether they are terror¬ists, rogue states or rising powers, his¬tory shows that threats must be confront¬ed. Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus abandoning its commitments or making unconvinc¬ing half pledges to defend its interests and allies, does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat. To make such a declaration implies weak-ness and emboldens aggression. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna¬tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront¬ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys¬ical, on the ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com¬mon" the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca¬pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today -in a world where Ameri¬can primacy is clearly and unambiguous¬ly on display--is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes, ¬their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America -their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun¬try, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy -and the bandwagon¬ing effect has also given us extensive in¬fluence in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability to cre¬ate coalitions of like minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro¬liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec¬tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun¬tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac¬tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re¬sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica¬tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases Venezuela, Iran, Cuba it is an anti U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin¬sically anti American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. 
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol¬ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con¬sider the current international order free trade, a robust monetary regime, increas¬ing respect for human rights, growing de¬mocratization is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages fol¬lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With¬out U.S. power, the liberal order cre¬ated by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washing¬ton and the world. 
The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela¬tionships aligned -between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars. 
Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread de¬mocracy and other elements of its ideol¬ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter¬ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead¬ership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin¬istration for attempting to spread democ¬racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit¬ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta¬bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per¬haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af¬ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat¬ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash¬ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku¬wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. 
Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob¬al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character¬ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo¬bility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a glob¬al public good from which all states ben¬efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca¬reer confident in the socialist ideology of post independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog¬nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globaliza¬tion, which are facilitated through Amer¬ican primacy.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. 


CONTENTION TWO IS DIPLOMACY

Afghanistan prevents a reorientation of US policy on actual crisis
Haass 12/13 (Richard N. Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, Director of Policy Planning in the US State Department, “The Endgames in Iraq and Afghanistan,” 12/13/10) http://www.cfr.org/publication/23619/endgames_in_iraq_and_afghanistan.html

Troop reductions in Iraq and Afghanistan will also allow the US military to begin to recover from these two conflicts. Neither soldiers nor equipment can sustain the performance that has been demanded of them. Recruitment and retention of highly skilled individuals in the US armed forces will increase as the level of effort in the two conflicts winds down, and a great deal of deferred military modernization will occur.
More fundamentally, reducing US involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan will permit a rebalancing of US foreign and defense policy. The two conflicts have absorbed a disproportionate share of the country's resources – military and economic to be sure, but also the time and attention of policymakers and diplomats.
In the short run, doing less in Iraq and Afghanistan will allow the US to concentrate on the two most immediate external threats to US interests: Iran and North Korea. In the long run, the US needs to generate domestic and international support for regional and global arrangements designed to manage the defining problems of this era, from the spread of nuclear materials and terrorism to maintaining an open world economy and slowing climate change. This will require a foreign policy that focuses on the emerging powers of the twenty-first century, many of which are in Asia.
The US largely squandered the opportunity to shape the international system in the first decade of the new century. Iraq and Afghanistan proved to be strategic distractions, and, particularly in Afghanistan, the US should resist pressures to prolong a substantial military presence.
There is now an opportunity to reorient American foreign policy to concentrate on what matters most. It is in the interest of the US and the world that this opportunity not be missed.

COIN specifically shreds foreign policy coherence—especially resources for diplomacy and climate change
Cohen 09 (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html)

Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to that tumultuous nation will likely wreak havoc on Obama's broader first-term foreign policy agenda - consuming resources, sucking up time and attention, and ultimately subverting his larger foreign policy goals.
In August, National Intelligence Council Chairman John Brennan declared that under Obama, "the fight against terrorists and violent extremists has been returned to its right and proper place: no longer defining - indeed, distorting - our entire national security and foreign policy, but rather serving as a vital part of those larger policies."
But the military commitment endorsed by President Obama would have the reverse effect - officially making stabilization in Afghanistan and the war against Al Qaeda and the Taliban the President's top priority.
For example, one of the most serious challenges facing the country's national security bureaucracy - one Obama and Secretary of State Clinton have expressed serious concern about in the past - is the skewed balance between resources for our military and civilian agencies. Nearly everyone in the foreign policy community agrees that both State and the U.S. Agency for International Development are badly under-resourced.
But with Obama's likely troop increase in Afghanistan, agencies like the State Department and USAID will see their dwindling capacity devoted to assisting the military as opposed to the long-term diplomacy and development work that can further U.S. interests in places not named Afghanistan or Pakistan. The civilian-military balance will only become further skewed.
And if the administration requests $100 billion a year for the war in Afghanistan, in the face of looming budget deficits, what are the chances Congress will loosen its purse strings further for two underappreciated foreign policy agencies?
Finally, Obama and his advisers will be pressed in devoting their attention and political capital to other foreign policy matters, whether it's pushing for a solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, organizing an international coalition to confront the Iranian nuclear program or hammering out international agreements on climate change and trade. It's never easy for Presidents and their advisers to proverbially "walk and chew gum at the same time," and having 100,000 troops in Afghanistan will make it that much harder.
But above all, Obama's goal of changing America's mind-set from the belief that there is a military solution to every national 
security challenge will be dealt a defining and perhaps fatal blow - and in the end, that is probably the most important reason why troop levels in Afghanistan matter and why the President should think twice. The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President.
As he prepares to announce a decision that will define his presidency, Obama would be wise to consider the words of one of his predecessors in the Oval Office, Lyndon Johnson, who after leaving office told a biographer, "History provided too many cases where the sound of the bugle put an immediate end to the hopes and dreams of the best reformers." No doubt Obama knows what ultimately happened to Johnson's policy agenda - and his presidency.


Effective diplomacy is key to stop warming
Hague 9/27 (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10)

But I particularly wanted to make the point to this audience and to circulate to a wider audience certain points about climate change this morning, which is perhaps the 21st century's biggest foreign- policy challenge, along with preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. I believe those two threats over the longer term are the biggest threats to the peace and security of the world.
A world that is failing to respond to climate change is one in which the values embodied in the United Nations will not be met, and it's a world in which competition and conflict would win out over collaboration.
We're at a very crucial point in the global debate on this subject. Many people are questioning, in the wake of Copenhagen, whether we should continue to seek a response to climate change through the U.N. and whether we can ever hope to deal with this enormous challenge.
And I will first argue today that an effective response to climate change underpins our security and prosperity; second, that our response should be to strive for a binding global deal, whatever the setbacks; and third, I will set out why effective deployment of foreign policy assets is crucial to mobilizing the political will needed if we're going to shape an effective response.
Now, Ban Ki-moon is right to have made climate change his top priority. Two weeks ago, I was talking about Britain's values in a networked world. I said then that a successful response to climate change must be a central objective of British foreign policy. And I said this not only because I believe action against climate change is in line with a values-based foreign policy, but because it underpins our prosperity and security.
You can't have food, water or energy security without climate security; they are interconnected and inseparable. They form four resource pillars on which global security, prosperity and equity stand. Each depends on the other. Plentiful, affordable food requires reliable and affordable access to water and energy. Increasing dependence on coal, oil and gas threatens climate security, increasing the severity of floods and droughts, damaging food production, exacerbating the loss of biodiversity, and in countries that rely on hydropower, undermining energy security through the impact on the availability of water.
As the world becomes more networked, the impact of climate change in one country or region will affect the prosperity and security of others around the world.
No one can have failed to be appalled by the devastating floods in Pakistan. They overwhelmed the capacity of government to respond and opened political space for extremists. While Pakistan has borne the brunt of the human impact, China too has been hit on a vast scale by a seemingly endless sequence of droughts, floods and deadly mudslides. The Russian drought last month damaged the wheat harvest, leading to an export ban. World prices surged, hitting the poorest hardest, and sparking riots over bread prices in far away Mozambique.
While no one weather event can ever be linked with certainty to climate change, the broad patterns of abnormality seen this year are consistent with climate-change models. They provide an illustration of the events we will be encountering increasingly in the future.
So the clock is ticking, and the time to act is now. We must all take responsibility for this threat and take robust action. But we must also be clear-headed about the difficulties of reaching agreement and not lose heart when the going gets tough.
The post-war leaders set up the United Nations in the aftermath of conflagration. They saw the pressing need for global solutions to global problems: cooperation not conflict, through frameworks and institutions embedded in the rule of law, and an international system that is fair and offers everyone a realistic prospect of security and prosperity.
Failure to respond to climate change is inimical to all these values, undermining trust between nations, intensifying competition for resources, and shrinking the political space available for cooperation. It is an affront to fairness, since it puts the greatest burden on those who have done least to cause the problem and are least able to deal with its consequences.
It is incompatible with the values and aspirations that the U.N. embodies. And it's incompatible with the values and aspirations of British foreign policy.
For more than 20 years, we've been striving to build an effective international response to climate change. But we have lacked the collective ambition required. We need to shift investment urgently from high-carbon "business as usual" to the low-carbon economy. This means building an essentially decarbonized global economy by mid- century.
At the same time, we must ensure development is climate resilient; otherwise, the changes in climate that are already unavoidable will block the path for hundreds of millions of people from poverty to prosperity. These changes also threaten to sweep away the investments in development we have made, and just as the bridges and schools in Pakistan were swept away.
To drive that shift in investment from low to high carbon, we need a global climate change deal under the United Nations.
Now, some have argued that we should abandon hope of doing so. They say Copenhagen proved it's all too difficult; we should focus instead on less inclusive and less demanding responses, such as coalitions of the willing. But we believe this would be a strategic error. It mistakes the nature of the task, which is to expand the realm of the possible, not to lower our ambition by accepting its current limits.
And we must recognize this at Cancun. One thing Copenhagen did give us was a set of political commitments, captured in the Copenhagen Accord, on which we can build. More than 120 countries have now associated themselves with that accord, and that represents a broad and growing consensus. We now need to ensure that we live up to the commitments we made to each other in the accord, and reach out even more widely.
Copenhagen, despite those accords, was a strategic setback, but it was not by any means the end of the road. We need to be clear why it failed to live up to high expectations and why it did not deliver a legally binding deal.
Many people say that it failed because of process: The diplomats and the politicians had created a negotiation that was too difficult and too complex. But this misses the point. International treaties are an outcome, not an input, of political bargains. If you've made the political commitment to deliver, you can make the process work to deliver.
The real reason Copenhagen did not deliver on high expectations was a lack of political will. Many in developing countries saw a gap between the words and the deeds of the industrialized economies. They questioned whether we really believed our own rhetoric. And to answer those questions, we each need to start at home.
That is why the coalition government to which I belong has committed itself to being the greenest government ever in the United Kingdom, and why, with others in Europe, we are calling on the European Union to commit to a 30-percent cut in emissions by 2020 without waiting for the rest of the world to act.
The UK is already the world leader in offshore wind, with more projects installed, in planning and in construction than any other country in the world. We're undertaking the most radical transformation of our electricity sector ever. We aim to provide over 30 percent of our domestic electricity from renewables by 2020. We have committed to build no new coal-fired power stations without carbon capture and storage technology, and we've announced our intention to continue the demonstration projects of that.
And because it's imperative that foreign and domestic policies are mutually reinforcing, we must ensure that our approach is coherent. Now, that's one reason we have established the new British National Security Council: to ensure this happens across the full range of issues, including climate change.
And that's why I work hand in glove with Chris Huhne, the British Energy and Climate Change secretary, and Andrew Mitchell, the International Development secretary, to ensure that our domestic action reflects our level of international ambition.
But we won't succeed, of course, if we act alone. We must aim for a framework that is global and binding. It needs to be global because climate change affects everyone. Only a response that allows everyone a voice will generate a sense of common purpose and legitimacy. Only a response that is binding will convince investors that we intend to keep the promises we make to each other. Businesses need clear political signals, so let's show them an unequivocal green light.
We are now a few weeks away from the 16th Conference of Parties on Climate Change in Cancun. And I commend the consultative and collaborative approach Mexico has taken ahead of this meeting. Thanks to their determination and foresight, we have a chance in Cancun to regain momentum and make progress on key issues such as forests, technology, finance and transparency of commitments. Cancun will -- may not get us all the way to a full agreement, but it can put us back on track to one.
That said, the negotiations can't succeed inside a bubble. The negotiators in the U.N. process can't themselves build political will. They have to operate on the basis of current political realities in the countries they represent. And it's those realities that limit the ambition that we can set in the -- in such negotiations, and it's those realities that we now need to shift.
There is no global consensus on what climate change puts at risk, geopolitically and for the global economy, and thus on the scale and urgency of the response we need. We must build a global consensus if we are to guarantee our citizens security and prosperity. That is a job for foreign policy.
A fundamental purpose here for foreign policy is to shift the political debate, to create the political space for leaders and negotiators to reach agreement. We didn't get that right before Copenhagen, and we must get it right now.
So we urgently need to mobilize foreign ministers and the diplomats they lead, as well as institutions such as the Council on Foreign Relations, to put climate change at the heart of foreign- policy thinking.
When I became foreign secretary in May, I said the core goals of our foreign policy were to guarantee Britain's security and prosperity. Robust global action on climate change is essential to that agenda. That is why the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, under my leadership, is a vocal advocate for climate diplomacy. All British ambassadors carry the argument for a global low-carbon transition in their breast pocket or in their handbag. Climate change is part of their daily vocabulary, alongside the traditional themes of foreign policy. And they're supported by our unique network of climate attaches throughout the world.
The core assets of foreign policy are its networks and its convening power. Foreign policy can build political impulses to overcome barriers between sectors and cultures. In a networked world, diplomacy builds partnerships beyond government. And nowhere are those partnerships more vital than on climate.
So we must mobilize all our networks, not just across government but between governments, using organizations such as the Commonwealth as well. We must reach out, beyond, to NGOs, faith groups and businesses. And of all these, perhaps business engagement is the key to making a difference. It's business that will lead low-carbon transition. It's business that best understands the incentives needed to help us all prosper.
We must also harness scientific expertise in cutting-edge low- carbon technologies. The scientific community will develop the goods which will power the low-carbon economy and drive global ambition on climate change. And that's why the British government has a science and innovation network, which fosters collaborative research in the U.K. and other countries.
Now, what can the U.K. and the European Union do to make that fundamental shift and shape a global consensus on climate change? The most serious problem at Copenhagen, and the strongest brake on political will, was and is a lack of confidence in the low-carbon economy. Too few people in too few countries are yet convinced that a rapid move to low carbon is compatible with economic recovery and growth. They see the short-term economic and domestic stability risks before the opportunities and the longer-term risks of inaction.
There should be only one European response to that confidence gap. The EU, in my view, must accelerate its own progress and demonstrate that a low-carbon growth path makes us more competitive. I am convinced this is in the long-term interests of Europe's economy. We have learned painful lessons from the oil price shocks. We must modernize our infrastructure. The opportunities are out there. The global industry in low-carbon and environmental goods and services is already estimated to be worth up to 3.2 trillion pounds a year. Nearly a million British people are now employed in this sector, and that's why we are creating a green investment bank to ensure that we can properly support and develop low-carbon industry.
But we need to redouble our efforts, both in the EU (itself ?) and in our engagement with partners. Each of us as member states will be better able to accelerate if we're doing so together as the world's largest single market. And by opening up this effort through partnership with others, we can make it easier for them to accelerate, too.
So we'll be at the forefront of pushing for low-carbon modernization of Europe's infrastructure and energy policy. The European Union's budget until 2013 is set out in the current "financial perspective".
We will argue -- we will need to agree the financial perspective for the seven years after that, the period including our 2020 climate goals. And it's -- as ever, it's right that the EU budget should reflect the prevailing economic circumstances. It's also right that we direct the budget to today's challenges, not those of yesterday. And that means one that supports the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Action in Europe alone will not be enough. We need both the developed and developing world to take action. And this week Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, and I have tasked our teams to come together to shape a coordinated, diplomacy-led effort on climate change, combining the strengths of our respective foreign services.
I've just put the case for bringing a new urgency for low-carbon transition within the EU. But together we should carry that urgency in external dialogues, whether they are with the United States, China or India.
The transition to low carbon will happen faster and maximize the benefit for all if the United States -- historically the world's largest emitter -- is at the leading edge. I recognize the political challenges that the U.S. administration faces and welcome President Obama's commitment to combat climate change. As he said in his State of the Union speech, "the nation that leads the clean-energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy."
Whatever the outcome of the upcoming midterm elections in the U.S., there is scope for political unity around an economic agenda that targets new energy opportunities and new jobs. American business understands this new market and should want to lead it. But to make these new clean-energy investments at the required pace and on a sufficient scale, they need the right incentives.
On climate, as in so many areas, the world looks to the US for leadership, because it has the economic clout and diplomatic leverage to shift the global debate.
And I look forward to working with the U.S. administration and indeed with the Council on Foreign Relations to raise global ambitions and put us back on the path to sustainable growth.
A key challenge for Europe is to build an economic partnership with China that reinforces the steps China is taking towards a low- carbon economy. These steps include its recent announcement of the five provinces and eight cities that have been designated as China's low-carbon pilots. Together these pilots cover 350 million people, so an ambitious approach to these schemes, tenaciously implemented, could provide a critical boost to global confidence in the concept of low- carbon development and help put China on the path to sustainable prosperity.
It could also produce huge two-way investment and partnership opportunities. Europe should place itself at the heart of these, working with China to maximize the ambition and the opportunities and to build the shared technology standards that will shape a global low- carbon market.
In China's case, low-carbon opportunity is matched by urgent low- carbon need. The pace of growth in China means average Chinese per- capita emissions could soon eclipse those of Europe. So while China has taken some very welcome steps, without a commitment from China to further decisive action, the efforts of others will be in vain.
The emerging economies face a dilemma. Often they are the most vulnerable to the direct effects of climate change. But they are concerned that action against climate change will adversely affect their development. The challenge to all countries is to have a high- growth, low-carbon economy. Some, like Brazil, which derives nearly half its energy from clean and renewable resources, are rising to that challenge.
India is another, embodying in microcosm the challenge that climate change poses to us all. Threatened by food, water and energy insecurity, India has responded with ambitious plans to generate 20 gigawatts of solar power by 2022.
South Africa, a coal-dependent economy, the success of which is so important to growth and prosperity within the continent, has made a significant offer to deviate their emissions from the business-as- usual pathway.
The opportunity is for the emerging economies -- for the emerging economies is to make a direct leap to low carbon, avoiding the high- carbon lock-in that we see in the developed world: a new, sustainable pathway for prosperity and security. A global low-carbon economy is not an idealist's pipe dream but a 21st-century realist's imperative. Countries that adapt quickly to a carbon-constrained world will be better able to deliver lasting prosperity for their citizens. As a Permanent Security Council member, I'm determined that the U.K. will play its full part in that, not least by supporting climate finance for the poorest.
Collectively, we share a responsibility to those most vulnerable to the impact of climate change. Bangladesh, with its densely populated coastal region, is particularly susceptible to rising sea levels. Glacial melt, sea-level rises and El Nino-type events threaten the lives of millions across South America. And the very existence of many small island states is under threat.
We have a shared vision to meet the Millennium Development Goals. But in a world without action on climate change, that vision will remain a dream, and the efforts of the last 10 years would
So climate change is one of the gravest threats to our security and prosperity. Unless we take robust and timely action to deal with it, no country will be immune to its effects. However difficult it might seem now, a global deal under the U.N. is the only response to this threat which will create the necessary confidence to drive a low- carbon transition.
We must be undaunted by the scale of the challenge.
We must continue to strive for agreement. We must not accept that because there is no consensus on a way forward now, that there never will be one. And to change the debate, we must imaginatively deploy all of the foreign policy assets in our armory until we've shaped that global consensus.
A successful response to climate change will not only stabilize the climate, but open the way to a future in which we can meet our needs through cooperation, in accordance with the ideals of the United Nations. Failure to do so will enhance competitive tendencies and make the world more dangerous, so this is not actually a hard choice.
We have to get this right. If we do, we can still shape our world. And if we don't, the world will determine our destiny for us.

Warming will cause extinction
Cummins and Allen ‘10 (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)

The hour is late. Leading climate scientists such as James Hansen are literally shouting at the top of their lungs that the world needs to reduce emissions by 20-40% as soon as possible, and 80-90% by the year 2050, if we are to avoid climate chaos, crop failures, endless wars, melting of the polar icecaps, and a disastrous rise in ocean levels. Either we radically reduce CO2 and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e, which includes all GHGs, not just CO2) pollutants (currently at 390 parts per million and rising 2 ppm per year) to 350 ppm, including agriculture-derived methane and nitrous oxide pollution, or else survival for the present and future generations is in jeopardy. As scientists warned at Copenhagen, business as usual and a corresponding 7-8.6 degree Fahrenheit rise in global temperatures means that the carrying capacity of the Earth in 2100 will be reduced to one billion people. Under this hellish scenario, billions will die of thirst, cold, heat, disease, war, and starvation. If the U.S. significantly reduces greenhouse gas emissions, other countries will follow. One hopeful sign is the recent EPA announcement that it intends to regulate greenhouse gases as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. Unfortunately we are going to have to put tremendous pressure on elected public officials to force the EPA to crack down on GHG polluters (including industrial farms and food processors). Public pressure is especially critical since "just say no" Congressmen-both Democrats and Republicans-along with agribusiness, real estate developers, the construction industry, and the fossil fuel lobby appear determined to maintain "business as usual."

Second is prolif and global stability—cooperation ensures new weapons states and rising powers are stable—the impact is nuke war
Dyer, 04 - worked as a freelance journalist, columnist, broadcaster and lecturer on international affairs for more than 20 years, but he was originally trained as an historian. Born in Newfoundland, he received degrees from Canadian, American and British universities, finishing with a Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History from the University of London. [Gwynne, "The end of war," Toronto Star, 12/30, l/n]

War is deeply embedded in our history and our culture, probably since before we were even fully human, but weaning ourselves away from it should not be a bigger mountain to climb than some of the other changes we have already made in the way we live, given the right incentives. And we have certainly been given the right incentives: The holiday from history that we have enjoyed since the early '90s may be drawing to an end, and another great-power war, fought next time with nuclear weapons, may be lurking in our future..
The "firebreak" against nuclear weapons use that we began building after Hiroshima and Nagasaki has held for well over half a century now. But the proliferation of nuclear weapons to new powers is a major challenge to the stability of the system. So are the coming crises, mostly environmental in origin, which will hit some countries much harder than others, and may drive some to desperation.
Add in the huge impending shifts in the great-power system as China and India grow to rival the United States in GDP over the next 30 or 40 years and it will be hard to keep things from spinning out of control. With good luck and good management, we may be able to ride out the next half-century without the first-magnitude catastrophe of a global nuclear war, but the potential certainly exists for a major die-back of human population.
We cannot command the good luck, but good management is something we can choose to provide. It depends, above all, on preserving and extending the multilateral system that we have been building since the end of World War II. The rising powers must be absorbed into a system that emphasizes co-operation and makes room for them, rather than one that deals in confrontation and raw military power. If they are obliged to play the traditional great-power game of winners and losers, then history will repeat itself and everybody loses.
Our hopes for mitigating the severity of the coming environmental crises also depend on early and concerted global action of a sort that can only happen in a basically co-operative international system. 
When the great powers are locked into a military confrontation, there is simply not enough spare attention, let alone enough trust, to make deals on those issues, so the highest priority at the moment is to keep the multilateral approach alive and avoid a drift back into alliance systems and arms races. And there is no point in dreaming that we can leap straight into some never-land of universal brotherhood; we will have to confront these challenges and solve the problem of war within the context of the existing state system.


CONTENTION THREE IS SOLVENCY

Counterterrorism solves
ASG 8/16 —The Afghanistan Study Group, an ad hoc group of public policy practitioners, former U.S. government officials, academics, business representatives, policy-concerned activists and association leaders concerned with the Obama administration’s policy course in Afghanistan, 8/16/10, (“What’s Wrong With The Current U.S Strategy,” A New Way Forward: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”) http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/2010/08/13/the-way-fo-rward-a-five-point-approach/

Second, a U.S. drawdown would not make Al Qaeda substantially more lethal. In order for events in Afghanistan to enhance Al Qaeda’s ability to threaten the U.S. homeland, three separate steps must occur: 1) the Taliban must seize control of a substantial portion of the country, 2) Al Qaeda must relocate there in strength, and 3) it must build facilities in this new “safe haven” that will allow it to plan and train more effectively than it can today.
Each of these three steps is unlikely, however, and the chances of all three together are very remote. For starters, a Taliban victory is unlikely even if the United States reduces its military commitment. The Taliban is a rural insurgency rooted primarily in Afghanistan’s Pashtun population, and its seizure of power in the 1990s was due to unusual circumstances that no longer exist and are unlikely to be repeated. Non-Pashtun Afghans now have ample experience with Taliban rule, and they are bound to resist any Taliban efforts to regain control in Kabul. Moreover, the U.S. military presence has helped the Taliban rally its forces, meaning that the group may well fragment and suffer a loss of momentum in the face of a U.S. drawdown. Surveys suggest that popular support for the Taliban among Afghans is in the single digits.
Even with significantly reduced troop levels, we can build a credible defense against a Taliban takeover through support for local security forces, strategic use of airpower, and deployment in key cities without committing ourselves to a costly and counterproductive COIN (counterinsurgency) campaign in the south. And if power-sharing and political inclusion is negotiated, the relevance of the Taliban as an alternative to Kabul is likely to decline.
And even if the Taliban were to regain power in some of Afghanistan, it would likely not invite Al Qaeda to re-establish a significant presence there. The Taliban may be reluctant to risk renewed U.S. attacks by welcoming Al Qaeda onto Afghan soil. Bin Laden and his associates may well prefer to remain in Pakistan, which is both safer and a better base from which to operate than isolated and land-locked Afghanistan.
Most importantly, no matter what happens in Afghanistan in the future, Al Qaeda will not be able to build large training camps of the sort it employed prior to the 9/11 attacks. Simply put, the U.S. would remain vigilant and could use air power to eliminate any Al Qaeda facility that the group might attempt to establish. Bin Laden and his associates will likely have to remain in hiding for the rest of their lives, which means Al Qaeda will have to rely on clandestine cells instead of large encampments. Covert cells can be located virtually anywhere, which is why the outcome in Afghanistan is not critical to addressing the threat from Al Qaeda.
In short, a complete (and unlikely) victory in Afghanistan and the dismantling of the Taliban would not make Al Qaeda disappear; indeed, it would probably have no appreciable effect on Al Qaeda. At the same time, dramatically scaling back U.S. military engagement will not significantly increase the threat from Al Qaeda.
Third, the current U.S. military effort is helping fuel the very insurgency we are attempting to defeat. An expanded U.S. presence has reinforced perceptions of the United States as a foreign occupier. Religious extremists have used the U.S. presence as an effective recruiting tool for their cause. Efforts to limit civilian casualties and other forms of collateral damage have been only partially successful, leading ? stopped here at 12:20 ? additional Afghans to take up arms against us.
Fourth, the expanded U.S. presence and a more energetic counterinsurgency effort in Afghanistan and Pakistan have reinforced a tacit alliance among different extremist groups whose agendas are not identical. The Taliban is itself a loose coalition of Pashtuns, many of whom are motivated by local concerns rather than by any deep commitment to global jihad. Al Qaeda, by contrast, is a global network of radical Islamists seeking to topple governments throughout the Middle East. The “Pakistani Taliban” are a separate alliance of different Islamist groups challenging the authority of the Pakistani state. The Haqqani network in Waziristan is led by a local warlord who is strongly opposed to foreign interference but reportedly also a sometime ally of Pakistan’s Inter-Service Intelligence agency (ISI).
Although cooperation among these disparate groups has increased in recent years, this development is largely a reaction to the increased foreign presence in the region and our efforts to convince the Pakistani government to take more aggressive action against these groups. Thus, our current strategy is helping drive these groups together, when our real aim should be to drive wedges between as many of them as possible and to win over those who do not share Al Qaeda’s anti-Western agenda or its commitment to global jihad.
Fifth, keeping 100,000-plus U.S. troops in yet another Muslim country lends credence to jihadi propaganda about America’s alleged hostility to Islam. Their presence may actually be increasing the overall danger that we face back home. Anger at U.S. military action in the Af/Pak theater inspired Faisal Shahzad, a U.S. citizen, to attempt an unsuccessful car bomb attack in Times Square, and other home-grown terrorists appear to have been inspired by similar motivations.

wwwwww

===1ac Emory=== 


CONTENTION ONE IS HEG

COIN fails in Afghanistan – tactical progress ignores basic flaws
Cohen 12/27 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “The Lost Year in the Afghan War,” 12/27/10) http://www.aolnews.com/2010/12/27/opinion-the-lost-year-in-the-afghan-war/

The Counterinsurgency Disconnect
While the West Point speech was supposed to clarify U.S. policy in Afghanistan, the White House and Pentagon were, from the beginning, seemingly not on the same page. In January, The Washington Post was reporting that "nearly a month after Obama unveiled his revised Afghanistan strategy, military and civilian leaders have come away with differing views of several fundamental aspects of the president's new approach."
While Vice President Biden stated declaratively that "this is not a [counterinsurgency] strategy," unnamed senior Pentagon officials asserted that Gen. Stanley McChrystal's plan for the war was, in fact, "still counterinsurgency."
On the ground, the Pentagon view was winning out. Even though Obama had told U.S. militaryleaders not to send U.S. troops into places that could potentially be turned over to Afghan security services within 18 months, U.S. Marines "attacked" the southern Afghanistan town of Marjah -- an area of instability that few expect to be turned over to the Afghan army any time soon.
But the offensive provided the military an opportunity to demonstrate its new approach to war fighting in Afghanistan: population-centric counterinsurgency, which put a premium on protecting the population, providing good governance and extending the legitimacy of the Afghan government rather than simply killing insurgents. McChrystal ludicrously declared that NATO and Afghan forces would supply "government-in-a-box" to Marjah -- as if governance and state legitimacy could be delivered so easily.
A year later, that goal, not surprisingly, lies in tatters, not only because of the ineffectiveness of the Afghan government (a point reinforced by discredited legislative elections this past September) but also because Afghan security forces are not close to being an effective fighting force.
Indeed, when McChrystal resigned in July as Afghan commander after an ill-advised interview withRolling Stone magazine, his replacement, Gen. David Petraeus, eschewed the hearts and minds counterinsurgency on display in Marjah. He returned to a policy that has historically defined counterinsurgent efforts -- killing the enemy, often ruthlessly.
In November there were three and a half times more airstrikes than the year before. Night raids and special force operations targeting Taliban commanders have also increased significantly. Even house demolitions have become practically "routine."
McChrystal was fond of saying that the most important metric for success in Afghanistan was not insurgents killed but civilians protected. Today, NATO and U.S. press releases regularly brag about body counts and Taliban commanders assassinated.
Tactical Gains, Strategic Roadblocks
While the escalation in military force has pushed the Taliban back on its heels, less clear are the long-term benefits. Indeed, these short-term tactical steps that are being hailed as "successes" mask the larger strategic obstacles for the U.S. and NATO.
For example, Pakistan continues to provide sanctuary for Afghan Taliban fighters and leaders. In February when Pakistan arrested a top Taliban lieutenant, Mullah Baradar, the initial indication was that Islamabad had made a strategic shift against the Taliban. More likely, however, was that the arrest was an effort to squash any political deal between the Afghan Taliban and Karzai government that didn't protect Pakistani interests.
Recent U.S. intelligence reports dismally suggest that Pakistan continues to view the group instead as a strategic asset for exercising influence in Afghanistan and is unlikely to turn on them. And without a Pakistani change of heart, there is little hope of winning the war in Afghanistan -- no matter how much military pressure the Taliban is subjected to.
The next obstacle is the corrupt and ineffectual Afghan government. Efforts by the U.S. to get the Karzai regime to crack down on endemic corruption have not only failed; they have also worsened tensions between the two governments. While the U.S. continues to devote significant resources to training the Afghan army and police, both forces have a long way to go until they will be able to stand up on their own or be fully trusted by all Afghans.
And then there is the Taliban, which remains a resilient and flexible enemy. Throughout much of 2010, Taliban insurgents have seeded violence across once stable northern and western Afghanistan, in effect nationalizing the insurgency and further destabilizing the country.
Whatever near-term tactical successes military chiefs can point to, they pale next to these strategic hindrances, which have only intensified over the past year.
A Way Forward?
So what needs to change in 2011? First and foremost, the U.S. and NATO must identify a political strategy for Afghanistan that will lessen U.S. involvement in the conflict. Indeed, the current military effort -- focused on pounding the Taliban into submission and forcing the insurgents to the negotiating table -- seems more likely to encourage the Taliban to dig in and wait out U.S. forces rather than quickly ending the war.

This is still true: the military is lying, litany of facts show Afghanistan is getting worse
Cohen 12/29 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “The White House’s Growing ‘Credibility Gap’ on Afghanistan,” 12/29/10)

A couple of months ago I wrote an article for Foreign Policy that argued only the US military is optimistic about the situation in Afghanistan. I noted that the apparent disconnect between public statements by the military and pretty much everyone else in Afghanistan is "increasingly bringing into question the very credibility of U.S. military statements about military progress in Afghanistan." 
Since then, things on this front have only gotten worse and the credibility gap has extended from the Pentagon to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. In recent weeks, the Obama Administration has followed the military's lead by putting out a number of optimistic statements about the war in Afghanistan that, as difficult as it is to say, are misleading the American people about the actual security situation in Afghanistan.
First there was the White House's Afghan Strategy Review, which made the following assertions:
in Afghanistan, the momentum achieved by the Taliban in recent years has been arrested in much of the country and reversed in some key areas.
The surge in coalition military and civilian resources, along with an expanded special operations forces targeting campaign and expanded local security measures at the village level, has reduced overall Taliban influence and arrested the momentum they had achieved in recent years in key parts of the country. 
In Afghanistan last month, President Obama said; 
"Today we can be proud that there are fewer areas under Taliban control and more Afghans have a chance to build a more hopeful future."
And Secretary Gates was even more specific:
"As a result of the tough fight under way, the Taliban control far less territory today than they did a year ago."
Nowhere in the review, and as near I can tell, the remarks of Gates and Obama is it reflected that in many parts of the country the security situation has actually deteriorated or that Afghan civilian deaths have increased significantly over the past year.
In fact, the statements above are contradicted by a litany of facts that offer a far more pessimistic view on the progress of the war. In fact, over the past week or so there have been several major pieces of evidence that demonstrate the extent to which the US military and now the White House are misleading the American people about the tenuous security situation in Afghanistan.
First the Wall Street Journal reported on a UN report about security in Afghanistan:
Internal United Nations maps show a marked deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan during this year's fighting season, countering the Obama administration's optimistic assessments of military progress since the surge of additional American forces began a year ago.
In the October map, just as in March's, virtually all of southern Afghanistan—the focus of the coalition's military offensives—remained painted the red of "very high risk," with no noted security improvements. At the same time, the green belt of "low risk" districts in northern, central and western Afghanistan shriveled considerably.
The U.N.'s October map upgraded to "high risk" 16 previously more secure districts in Badghis, Sar-e-Pul, Balkh, Parwan, Baghlan, Samangan, Faryab, Laghman and Takhar provinces; only two previously "high risk" districts, one in Kunduz and one in Herat province, received a safer rating.
Today, McClatchy reports on the findings of the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office and in particular its reporting on deterioration in northern Afghanistan: (I heard similar things from their representative in Mazar in September):
"Absolutely, without any reservation, it is our opinion that the situation is a lot more insecure this year than it was last year," said Nic Lee, the director of the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office, an independent organization that analyzes security dangers for aid groups.
While U.S.-led forces have driven insurgents out of their strongholds in southern Afghanistan, Taliban advances in the rest of the country may have offset those gains, a cross section of year-end estimates suggests.
Insurgent attacks have jumped at least 66 percent this year, according to the Afghanistan NGO Safety Office. Security analysts say that Taliban shadow governors still exert control in all but one of Afghanistan's 34 provinces.
"I can't understand how they can say it is more secure than last year," said Hashim Mayar, the acting director of the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief, an umbrella group that represents more than 100 Afghan and international aid groups working in Afghanistan. "Insecurity has extended to some parts of the county that were relatively safe last year."
Perhaps most damningly, a recent Pentagon report to Congress drew similar conclusions:
The insurgency’s capabilities and operational reach have been qualitatively and geographically expanding, as evidenced by a greater frequency and wider dispersion of insurgent-initiated attacks; however, that spread is being increasingly challenged by the ISAF surge forces conducting operations. Despite the increase in ANSF and ISAF capabilities to counter insurgent attacks, the insurgents’ tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) continue to evolve in sophistication. In addition, the insurgency continues to inhibit the expansion of a legitimate Afghan Government through an effective shadow governance process that provides dispute resolution, rule of law, and other traditional services in a number of areas. 
Keep in mind, this is a Pentagon report - and it appears to directly contradict the words of the President and the Secretary of Defense. 
So what you have is a mountain of evidence indicating that the security situation in Afghanistan is worsening; that in particular, insurgents are making serious in-roads in the north and west of the country and putting once secure regions in greater risk; even as the US is putting greater pressure on Taliban insurgents in the South and East. 
While it may be factually correct for Obama and Gates to suggest that the Taliban "control" less territory than they did before the surge this is a highly dubious claim since the Taliban's effectiveness is not really defined by territory as much as it is the ability to intimidate and influence the population, exert its influence in local communities and spread instability. This is a fact that is almost certainly understood by our military commanders in Afghanistan.
The simple fact is that the Administration's efforts to put a more positive spin on the increasingly tenuous security situation in Afghanistan is to gloss over the truth. Perhaps the most important story of the past year in Afghanistan is that even with the inclusion of more than 30,000 more US and NATO troops the security situation has worsened dramatically.
Now one can argue that this is a means to an end; a first stop on the road to progress. I don't find that personally credible, but it's certainly a legitimate argument for the Administration to make.
But it's quite another thing to play down the deterioration around the country; to cherry-pick improvements in areas of the country inundated with US troops as a reason for overall optimism; and to provide the American people with a decidedly one-sided and incomplete view of the war in Afghanistan. This, unfortunately, is what the White House and the military are trying to do. 
To be blunt, it's becoming increasingly difficult to take anything the White House or the military says about the war in Afghanistan seriously.

Therefore, the plan is key to demonstrate Obama’s control of his own foreign policy and restore international credibility
Andrew J. Bacevich, 10/5 Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University, 10-05-2010 (“Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439, Accessed 10-12-2010)
Andrew J. Bacevich is professor of history and international relations at Boston University. His new book is Washington Rules: America’s Path to Permanent War.

Bourne thereby identified a central truth of modern American politics: Stripped to its essence, our democracy has become an elaborate process of conferring enormous power on a single individual. What we choose to call an inauguration is more accurately a coronation. Nominally a chief executive, the president today occupies a position more akin to that of emperor, and Americans both expect much and demand much of their emperor.
To be "the most powerful man in the world" is to be simultaneously worshiped and despised. To occupy the Oval Office is to become the modern-day equivalent of a Sun King, commanding deference, while also becoming the subject of endless gossip, envy, jealousy, and intrigue, all to be reported at length and ad nauseam by Bob Woodward.
What lends this arrangement a semblance of legitimacy is the expectation that our president-monarch knows how to wield power effectively. Through the exercise of royal prerogatives, the king demonstrates his worthiness for high office.
Should a president demonstrate an absence of mastery — if he comes across as a weakling or a ditherer — profound dysfunction results. Recall the Carter era. Jimmy Carter's inability to resolve the Iran hostage crisis reduced him to a figure of contempt and left Americans with a sense that the country itself was adrift. In short order, they stripped Carter of his crown.
Yet presidential weakness — even an inkling of weakness — can have international as well as domestic implications. This is notably the case in matters related to national security. If the occupant of the Oval Office appears less than fully in command, friend and foe alike will wonder who exactly is in charge.
Confusion about American priorities and intentions can thereby result. Out of confusion can come miscalculation, as allies revise downward their estimate of American reliability and adversaries persuade themselves that they can get away with mischief. In other words, the implications of weakness extend beyond the who’s up, who’s down preoccupations of garden-variety politics. This confusion describes where we find ourselves today. There is no doubting that President Obama is smart, talented, well intentioned, and smooth as they come. Yet whether he possesses the temperament to govern is fast becoming an open question. Put simply, the question is this: Does Obama have sufficient backbone?
The release of Bob Woodward's new book Obama’s Wars has raised this question to new heights. It depicts a president who not only gets rolled but who knows when he is getting rolled and still allows it to happen. With regard to how to proceed on Afghanistan — the most important foreign policy decision to cross Obama’s desk thus far — the president last year demanded that the Pentagon present him with distinctive policy options. The king didn’t want to be handed the solution; he wanted to choose.
In fact, however, the members of his court offered him three variations of a single course of action, the one that the Pentagon itself preferred — a textbook example of how the theory of “civilian control” differs from actual practice.
Particularly disturbing is the fact that our very smart president understood exactly what was happening. Woodward shows Obama complaining loudly. Having registered that complaint, the president more or less meekly rubber-stamped the policy that the Pentagon was foisting on him. In effect, on Afghanistan he thereby forfeited to others the power to decide. Once Obama endorsed choices made by unelected subordinates, the office of commander-in-chief had acquired additional tenants.
That was back in December 2009, of course. Here in October 2010, the Pentagon's preferred plan for Afghanistan shows little sign of succeeding anytime soon. Obama's wariness about escalating the war there — now about to enter its tenth year — looks increasingly sound, which makes his complicity in going along with that escalation all the more damning.
Yet perhaps all is not lost — at least not entirely so. The president may yet have one last chance to retrieve the situation and to reverse the impression that he is less than fully in control of his administration. The next Afghanistan "milestone" is a strategic assessment promised for this coming December, one full year after Obama announced his (or the Pentagon's) Afghan surge. The military — General David Petraeus in the vanguard — will exert itself to minimize the importance of this mid-course review. So too will members of the Petraeus Lobby, currently challenging AIPAC, the trial lawyers, the pharmaceutical industry and all the rest of the powerful interest groups vying for preeminence in Washington.
You can take it to the bank: The military backed by militarists in mufti will press for more time. They will argue for postponing any serious decisions until July 2011, intending in the mean time to chip away at the president's vaguely stated promise to begin withdrawing U.S. troops from Afghanistan next summer.
If Obama wishes to salvage his presidency and demonstrate his capacity to lead and to govern, he will reject that effort. He will instead seize the opportunity presented by the mid-course review.
December is the time to render a verdict on the Afghanistan war. If the Afghan surge is still not showing clear signs of success by year's end, waiting another seven months won’t make a difference.
December also presents Obama with an opportunity — perhaps his last one — to reverse the impression that he is not fully in control of his own administration. Decisive action just might enable the president to reassure Americans and the rest of the world that he is, after all, up to the job.
Should he squander this last opportunity, however, the king is likely to find himself soon thereafter seeking new employment.


Also, perception of the Afghanistan quagmire destroys deterrence and hamstrings the military
Haass 12/20 (Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10)
http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html

To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward Afghanistan this spring, President Obama would need to cite several factors. First, the U.S. inability to eliminate the sanctuaries in Pakistan. Second, successful counterinsurgency depends on having a solid local partner. Two years of sustained investment and multiple but fraudulent elections suggest that Afghanistan's central government will not reach the point where it is considered effective or legitimate by the bulk of its own people. All this argues for adopting a policy of counterterrorism rather than state-building.
There are also broader reasons to recast policy. The greatest threat to U.S. national security stems from our own fiscal crisis. Afghanistan is a significant contributor to this situation and could play an important role in reducing it. A savings of $75 billion a year could help finance much-needed military modernization and reduce the deficit.
Another factor is the increased possibility of a conflict with a reckless North Korea and the continued possibility of a confrontation with Iran over its nuclear program. U.S. military forces must be freed up to contend with these issues. The perception that we are tied down in Afghanistan makes it more difficult to threaten North Korea or Iran credibly—and makes it more difficult to muster the forces to deal with either if necessary.
Ultimately Afghanistan is a strategic distraction. U.S. interests there are limited. So, too, are the resources available for national security. It is not surprising that the commander in the field, Gen. David Petraeus, is calling for committing greater resources to the theater. But it is the commander-in-chief's responsibility to take into account the nation's capacity to meet all of its challenges, national and international. It is for this reason that the perspectives of Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge.

Afghanistan ties down our military and trades off with other key priorities
Cordesman 12/10 (Anthony H. Cordesman, Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy, Center for Strategic and International Studies, recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal, frequently acts as a consultant to the U.S. State Department, Defense Department, and intelligence community, former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, served in numerous other government positions, including in the State Department and on NATO International Staff, “AMERICA’S WARS IN AFGHANISTAN, PAKISTAN, AND IRAQ: THE CHALLENGE OF GRAND STRATEGY, An Address to the Industrial College of the Armed Forces,” 12/10/10) http://csis.org/files/publication/101213_Iraq_and_Afghan_Talk_Edited.pdf

Reassessing Our Grand Strategic Posture in Central Asia
These same issues illustrate why we need to evaluate our grand strategic commitment to Afghanistan andPakistan in a way that makes hard choices about our future posture in Central Asia. We need to debate exactly what US goals are in all of Central Asia, and what overall level of continued US effort is really justified.
A look at the map and the region's infrastructure also makes it clear that Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia are natural Russian and Chinese spheres of influence in political, military, economic, and energy terms. If we limit our role to conventional diplomacy and military advisory roles, Russia and China will have to do what they can to bring stability and security to the region. Iran and India, and other peripheral powers will have to play a far greater role.
“Strategic neglect” is not an American strength, and neither is “strategic triage.” We cannot afford grand strategies,however, that ignore the need to make far harder choices on a global level. If the costs and risks of a major US commitment in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia remain this high, or continue to grow, this is one "Great Game" that can best be won by refusing to play it. There are simply too many complex ethnic, sectarian, tribal, and other national tensions in this region for a US to manage the end result. We have too many other interests in Asia, Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East where we already have vital strategic interests, and face problems that challenge our capabilities and resources.
Avoiding Limited Wars That Commit the Bulk of US Ground Forces and US Civil-
Military Resources to Open-Ended Armed Nation Building
More broadly, we need to consider what a near decade of conflict should shows about the way we risk making major long-term commitment of scarce US military forces and civil aid capabilities in the future, and about the need to find better ways to use our resources. It shows that we have to be far more careful about letting limited involvement escalate into “worst case wars” in one narrow part of the world.
We may not like to face the fact that we are actively involved in armed nation building, and that this can be a “worst case” form of limited war. The fact is, however, that we did escalate to this level in Iraq, we are still fighting on this level in Afghanistan, and we have a growing involvement in Pakistan.
They have tied up an immense proportion of the US defense budget, US forces, and scarce aid and development expertise in extremely high-risk commitments to a given conflict whose scale and duration cannot be predicted and run a constant risk of serious escalation and/or failure. Moreover, it is more than doubtful that the US would have escalated or engaged in any of its these wars in the way it did if their costs and risks had been properly assessed before or during the initial phase of military and stability operations. Such wars may become necessary in the future, but we need to consider the cost-benefits of this approach to making strategic commitments even when we have valid grand strategic needs, and the cost-benefits of alternative approaches. The US needs to do a far better job of considering alternative strategies and grand strategies that put far more emphasis on containment and deterrence; on reacting decisively before wars escalate to this level of requirements, and building on allies at moderate cost rather than fighting and spending in broken states.
In the process, the US also needs to be far more realistic about its severe real-world limits as a military “superpower.” The Iraq and Afghan/Pakistan wars have shown that the US now effectively has the land forces for one major regional contingency and no practical prospect of increasing them. These are the same forces that would have to help South Korea in a crisis or any other partner that required US support in a conventional war.

Expanding Taliban and European withdrawals will force additional future deployments just to avoid a loss
Dorronsoro 2010 (November, Gilles Dorronsoro, - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, “Afghanistan at the Breaking Point,” November 2010) http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_break_point.pdf

The southern strategy presumed swift successes, which would help establish a national dynamic, but the stalemate is radically changing the situation. The coalition’s best troops will be in Helmand province and Kandahar for the next several years, which forces it to assume a defensive stance in the rest of the country. However, the opening of new fronts in the north and the Taliban’s aggressiveness in the east indicate that the insurgency could break down the Western defense system in 2011 or 2012. A relatively small number of troops—only 11,000 in the north and 8,500 in Kabul—face a growing insurgency. The European contingents, who are less war-hardened, will fi nd themselves in an unmanageable situation; increased attacks against them will force them into increasingly defensive postures. They are leaving their bases less often, giving free rein to the Taliban to organize large-scale attacks against the most isolated NATO outposts and force a retreat after years of combat, as occurred this past April in the Korengal Valley. Logistics will become increasingly complex, and more troops are dying in insurgent attacks on the main roads, including those into Pakistan.
It is therefore hard to imagine maintaining or decreasing troop strength in 2011. To the contrary, in the absence of a political process, the coalition will have to strengthen its force through one of three options: an internal reorganization, the “Afghanization” of security, or
sending in reinforcements.
Option 1: Internal reorganization Can the coalition adapt? At this stage, it is hard to be optimistic about NATO’s ability to reform itself to counter the Taliban’s progress. The coalition consistently has failed to react swiftly to known problems. It is a bureaucratic machine oriented toward its own (admittedly highly complex) management, not toward problem solving. Those in charge still defi ne success in terms of inputs (resources) and outputs (actions), not outcomes (effects). NATO logistics are a disaster, because the Taliban extort logistics companies; the coalition is thus fi nancing its enemy. In addition, private security fi rms in charge of convoy security are corrupt and often create tensions with the local population. Yet it took a U.S. Senate report (Warlords, Inc.), commissioned following a series of press articles, to offi cially raise the issue. Nothing indicates that things are changing on the ground. Western armies’ effectiveness is hampered by three types of obstacles: intellectual, human, and tactical. The war is being conceived on the basis of false theories that are not being called into question as a result of failures. The coalition continues to base its actions on a false vision of the adversary and on hypotheses that long have been debunked. The relationship between development aid and security, for example, has long been challenged. 26 Increasing aid to areas rife with violence only fuels the war economy; it does not translate into political support. The tribal policy is another example of intellectual constructions without a serious empirical basis that are reiterated nonetheless. 27 The idea of dividing the Taliban in order to co-opt smaller groups has been put forward for AFGHANISTAN AT THE BREAKING POINT 25 years, although it has never yielded results. Pakistan obviously has no desire to break off its relations with the Taliban, although U.S. policy remains based on the idea of a bargain in which it provides aid to Pakistan in exchange for action against the Taliban. Why have U.S. forces not learned from past mistakes? Part of the explanation is the use of security specialists (in terrorism and counterinsurgency) who lack knowledge of Afghan society. It is revealing, in this regard, that the civilian commission that established COIN’s principles in the summer of 2009 did not include a single Afghanistan specialist. It seems that the dominant analysis—the one heeded by the U.S. command—is essentially internal, produced as a result of stays on coalition bases. Leaders must consider the analyses of other experts, if only to avoid fi ascos as predictable as Marja. The coalition does not have the necessary human resources to implement the COIN. Coalition forces’ programs lack continuity, and personnel turn over so quickly that they have few relationships with Afghan society—or time to build them. The personnel change on average every six months, although some individuals carry out several tours of duty (not necessarily in the same place). The lack of institutional memory is a key problem in Afghanistan. There is a shortage of translators, who are often insuffi ciently trained 28 and, for security reasons, often work outside of their native region, giving rise to linguistic and cultural misunderstandings. The coalition has a limited awareness of its own history, which is why proposals that have failed many times are regularly re-presented. This lack of continuity in programs enables a proliferation of initiatives that undergo regular name changes (such as the militia programs), and whose results are never really evaluated. The coalition’s tactical repertoire is limited and predictable. Compared with similar wars, Western troops move very slowly, which CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 26 GILLES DORRONSORO rules out the element of surprise. On average, coalition soldiers carry several dozen kilos on operations. Coalition forces have never attempted helicopter operations in which troops are dropped off on ridges in order to clear the area. Troop movements take an extremely long time to prepare because of the threat of IEDs; advancing a few kilometers can often take several hours. Outside of Special Forces operations, there is no element of surprise, because the Taliban are highly skilled at reading the coalition’s movements. Patrols are largely ineffective, with coalition soldiers remaining in villages for at most a few hours. European troops have instructions to limit losses, which constrains their tactical options. Their practices are essentially defensive; for example, they cannot pursue the adversary if ambushed. European troops are focused on troop protection, not on seeking or destroying the enemy. Option 2: Afghanization Could Afghan forces signifi cantly contribute to operations? Continuing training and developing the Afghan forces remain a priority, even in the event of a political solution. However, all indications are that they will not be able to take over from Western forces, even on a local level, for a number of years, and even then solely for defensive actions. A less-than-selective recruitment process has permitted the Taliban to infi ltrate the troops 29 and refl ects the The lack of institutional memory is a key problem in Afghanistan. AFGHANISTAN AT THE BREAKING POINT 27 regime’s lack of legitimacy. Thus far, particularly in Marja, Afghan forces have played a purely symbolic role 30 ; their independent operation in Laghman province in August 2010 was a fi asco. 31 Afghan forces will not be able to withstand a Taliban advance; at best they can defend their own bases or guarantee urban centers (up to a certain point). Some commentators hope that partitioning the country could lead coalition forces to leave. The fi ght would then pit a Talibandominated south against a pro-Western north. For example, a proposal by Robert Blackwill, former U.S. ambassador to India, to divide Afghanistan is based on the idea that the Afghan state is an artifi cial construct, and Afghan territory could be divided along ethnic lines. In practice, this would suppose large-scale ethnic cleansing; hundreds of thousands of Pashtuns would probably be forced to leave the north. The Afghan army would become what it is already tending toward: a force dominated by Tajiks (notably Panjshiris) and Uzbeks. We would offer the Afghan Taliban an agreement in which neither side seeks to enlarge its territory—if the Taliban stopped supporting terrorism, a proposal that they would almost certainly reject. We would then make it clear that we would rely heavily on U.S. air power and Special Forces to target any Al Qaeda base in Afghanistan, as well as Afghan Taliban leaders who aided them. We would also target Afghan Taliban encroachments across the de facto partition lines and terrorist sanctuaries along the Pakistan border. Though careful analysis is needed, this might mean a longtime residual U.S. military force in Afghanistan of about 40,000 to 50,000 troops. We would enlist Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras and supportive Pashtuns in this endeavor, as well as our NATO allies, Russia, India, Iran, perhaps China, Central Asian nations and, one hopes, the U.N. Security Council. 32 CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 28 GILLES DORRONSORO Blackwill does not explain why the Taliban should accept such a proposal when their bases in the north are rapidly growing. Such a policy would be disastrous. Paradoxically, the insurgency would fi nd itself in the position of acting as the representative of the Afghan nation in the face of an alliance of regional and international forces that are weakening central institutions. The destabilization of Pakistan is a grave danger, because the Afghan-Pakistani border (which is not recognized by Afghanistan) would disappear, with consequences for Balochistan. Even from a Western or Indian standpoint, that situation is unfavorable: Losing control over the border areas would allow all jihadist groups to fi nd sanctuary there. Proposing Afghanistan’s partition destabilizes the country by reviving Afghan fears of manipulation by imperial powers; it strengthens mistrust of the international community. Even in a more nuanced form, proposals of “decentralization” and other forms of devolution barely conceal the desire to bypass and weaken Kabul. Such talk would have the same destabilizing effects on Afghanistan and Pakistan.
If the Taliban cannot be contained through improvements in coalition forces’ performance or by Afghanizing the war, then more troops must be sent to Afghanistan. Since strengthening the Afghan security system would take a decade in the best-case scenario, the implicit length of time for the coalition would be ten to fifteen years. Precise calculations are diffi cult, but tens of thousands of men would be required to merely contain the Taliban; many more would be required for the coalition, with heavy losses, to adopt an offensive stance and win back territory (see Figure 3).
In addition, the United States would probably have to replace the European forces, which most likely will be gone before 2015. Decisions made in Washington are placing other NATO members in increasingly diffi cult positions. The conduct of strategy has become purely American, and the risk of unilateral withdrawal by the allies is growing. European populations are increasingly opposed to the war in Afghanistan; following the Iraqi experience, it is hard for a European government to defy popular opinion for too long. Dutch troops left Afghanistan in August 2010, and Canada plans to withdraw its troops in 2011. Great Britain publicly reiterated its decision to withdraw its combat troops before 2015, Poland is envisioning 2013, and Spain is also leaning toward an early withdrawal. Opposition parties, notably in France, are challenging the consensus on the presence of their troops in Afghanistan. European governments especially—now including Great Britain—are placing implicit political conditions on loss levels. In the current circumstances— with a strategy seen as hardly credible and the political cost of leaving quickly decreasing—the only rational decision for European countries is to unilaterally set a withdrawal deadline. The departure of European troops will have to be compensated by the addition of tens of thousands of American troops. With a plurality of Americans now opposed to the war, political support for a military escalation is probably insuffi cient. 33
The argument that we cannot judge the strategy until next year is weak because, as we have seen, the strategy has changed and the operations under way in the south cannot change the national dynamic.
34
But many pundits are hoping for a reversal of the situation along the lines of what happened in post-surge Iraq. The comparison with Iraq is intellectually inconsistent, and it stands in the way of a rational policy in Afghanistan. 35
In fact, that comparison has an essentially moral and political dimension, with no analytical value as far as the effective conduct of the war is concerned. The narrative of the surge is based on the idea that at a time when most analysts believed the situation in Iraq to be desperate, the U.S. army took risks and found the solution. The surge in Afghanistan would therefore be a test of military, rather than civilian, leadership. But for the coalition, the immediate and deferred costs of waiting are so large that the political leadership must put the war in Afghanistan back into perspective compared with other national priorities. Indeed, the importance of this theater to American interests doesn’t justify the fi nancial and human burden induced by the presence of more than 100,000 U.S. troops. 

And the readiness of our military is key to deterrence – we aren’t invincible and we can’t afford to be tied down
Grant 09 – Research Analyst @ Lexington Institute w/ emphasis on joint doctrine, air power, aerospace defense [Dr. Rebecca Grant (PhD in International Relations from the London School of Economics and Former lecturer at Air University and Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell Air Force Base), “Global Deterrence: The Role of F-22,” Lexington Institute, February 2009]

However, the balance may be shifting again. In the last two years, Russia, India and China have all announced or clarified major defense programs that include everything from the development of advanced fighters to upgrading aircraft carriers. Turns out, adversaries took careful note of the way America and its allies used air dominance in all its operations. They reshaped their defense plans to make inroads on that asymmetric advantage. They are building advanced missiles, aircraft and subsystems and there’s also a world market for their best wares. For all these reasons, conventional deterrence is moving up the list of jobs for America’s military. According to Mullen: A big part of credibility, of course, lies in our conventional capability. The capability to project U.S. military power globally and conduct effective theater-level operations across the domains of land, sea, air, space, cyberspace, and information – including the capability to win decisively – remains essential to deterrence effectiveness. We must therefore address our conventional force structure and its readiness as a deterrent factor, especially after 7 years at war. No one is suggesting that deterrence in this multi-polar world will be the same as the Cold War. Far from it. For one thing, America will not have the same economic dominance it once enjoyed. America’s economy will still probably be the biggest for a time, but economic and financial peers are already on the scene. Some forecast China’s economy may grow fast enough to overtake the US. With China, and other nations, military deterrence will be one part of a much wider relationship encompassing trade agreements, financial deals, diplomacy, and yes, other competition for global influence as China navigates its “peaceful rise.” Instead of spies and the Berlin Wall, the deterrence of the 21st Century will include gala state dinners, toasts with strong liquor, and a shifting series of international consortia and negotiations on everything from trade to climate change. However, low-level military friction is likely to be a constant. Russia will be active on its borders and China will continue to build global ties. Expect the spheres of influence of the major world powers to collide from time to time. THE NEW DETERRENCE METRICS Conventional deterrence will have a big role in shaping those collisions – and whether they turn out to be occasional jostling or more serious face-offs. Pg. 1-3 1ac

Overstretch risks miscalculation and great power war
Gordon 7 - chief military correspondent for the New York Times (Michael, Survival, Break Point? Iraq and America’s Military Forces, http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/media/e2wquwrwth0v8u1trg3h/contributions/m/7/6/7/m76738823338363h.pdf) 

A greater worry has been the operational availability of American ground forces. The army has a system for deploying the 42 new Brigade Combat Teams it is establishing as part of an ongoing programme to restructure its units. The goal is for an active brigade to spend two years at home for each year it is deployed overseas. So many units are needed for the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, however, that combat brigades are generally spending only a year at home for each year they are deployed. As one general put it, the brigades are either deployed, have just got back or are preparing to rotate back to Iraq and Afghanistan again. As a consequence, no more than a handful – perhaps as few as two or three Brigade Combat Teams – are immediately available for contingencies elsewhere. The shortage of forces has also constrained training. Since the focus is on Iraq and Afghanistan and combat troops generally spend only a year in the United States before rotating back, the army has essentially abandoned brigade- level heavy mechanised training at the National Training Center. Concerns have grown within the military establishment that the army may be raising a new group of young lieutenants and captains with little experience in high-intensity warfare against heavily equipped armies like North Korea’s. An unexpected crisis on the Korean Peninsula or another trouble-spot would likely force the army to take extraordinary measures. It could respond to the crisis by dispatching troops that had been earmarked for duty in Iraq and by simultaneously extending the deployment of troops already in Iraq well beyond the normal year-long tour of duty. Surging forces in Iraq would likely involve a similar extension of deployment tours. Such a move, however, would risk future difficulties in retaining officers in an all-volunteer force and might stretch the army to the breaking point. The Marine Corps is encountering similar strains. Of the 24 infantry battalions in the active force, nine are deployed, including three Marine Expeditionary Units. Seventy percent of the marine battalions that are deployed are located in the Central Command’s area of responsibility, meaning the Middle East and southwest Asia. The marines generally deploy for seven months instead of a year, but the strain has been similar. Marine units have generally been home only eight or nine months for each seven months they are deployed. Much of their training is geared to counter-insurgency. The marines are not training for high-intensity warfare at the battalion or higher level as much as in the past. To cope with the demands, both services anticipate greater use of the reserves. Army officials have already told Rumsfeld aides that they may be forced to make greater use of the National Guard. Following extensive use in Iraq, the National Guard set a goal of allowing five years at home between foreign deployments so as not to disrupt the family life and careers of its citizen soldiers. Greater use of the Guard would require that this goal be sacrificed. As for the marines, of the six reserve battalions, one has been deployed for almost two years and is currently off-limits. The remaining five have been deployed for about a year, and the marines sought and received authority from Rumsfeld to use them for one more year. In addition, the marines said in August 2006 that they will call back as many as 2,500 members of its Individual Ready Reserve, a pool of manpower that the marines had not tapped since 2003 and which is used to fill military specialities in times of national emergency. Such moves, however, are merely expedient measures. It is not simply a matter of enduring strain on the force. The limited number of ground troops has already had deleterious consequences. In Iraq, the limited numbers of forces have hampered American operations, delaying progress and prolonging the day when American forces might be able to go home. The 2005 operations by the Army’s Third Armored Cavalry Regiment in Tal Afar demonstrated what can be accomplished by an astute commander who is sensitive to the needs of the local population and has the necessary forces to establish control. The regiment worked with Iraqi security forces to clear Tal Afar of insurgents, to hold the town with Iraqi and American troops, then to encourage reconstruction there, an approach known as ’clear, hold, build’. The new counter-insurgency manual hailed the operation, as did Bush. But the reality is that such operations are troop intensive. ‘The units that have sufficient forces are applying the doctrine with good effect’, said one military officer who recently returned from Iraq. ’Those units without sufficient forces can only conduct raids to disrupt the enemy while protecting themselves. They can’t do enough to protect the population effectively and partner with Iraqi forces.‘8 Indeed, an instructive case history that is not included in the new counter- insurgency manual shows how efforts can be set back due to insufficient forces. To mass enough troops to retake Fallujah in the autumn of 2004 the marines drew forces from Haditha, essentially leaving the town at the mercy of the insur- gents. What followed was a devastating setback for the American effort to carry out counter-insurgency operations in the violent al-Anbar province. While the Americans were securing Fallujah the Iraqi police in Haditha were accosted by insurgents and executed. The episode left the town without a police force that could check the operations of the insurgents and taught the Iraqis there that the Americans could not be counted on to protect their nascent institutions, what- ever their good intentions. It also made the task of recruiting a new police force all but impossible. When follow-on marine units were deployed to Haditha their efforts to mount a police recruitment drive failed, forcing the marines to think about seeking police recruits from other parts of the country. Without adequate force levels, operations in al-Anbar became a strategic version of the Whac-a-Mole arcade game in which a target is struck only to appear elsewhere. When American forces massed troops to clear one area they left another area poorly protected, creating a vacuum that the insurgents eagerly filled.9 The consequences were summed up in an intelligence report that was prepared by Multinational Forces-West, the American command for the western area. Outside of islands of relative stability like Fallujah and al-Qaim, cleared in large-scale combat operations by American troops, the dominant force was not the American military or the new Iraqi government, but al-Qaeda in Mesopotamia. The report estimated that the deployment of a coalition division and a massive infusion of aid, neither of which were in the offing, were required to reverse the deteriorating security conditions.10 The risks presented by a constrained number of ground forces extend beyond Iraq. They raise the possibility that an adversary might miscalculate, projecting that it can undertake provocative actions that the United States would find it difficult to respond to. The Iraq War was intended by the Bush administration as a demonstration of American power and resolve that would serve as a cautionary lesson to nations like Iran, which is pursuing a nuclear-weapons capability, or Syria, which has supported Hizbullah. With the difficulties of the United States in Iraq, the lesson has backfired. But the limited number of forces may add to the perception that the United States is bogged down in Iraq and unable to respond adequately to other contingencies

And it causes political exhaustion, withdrawal helps our reserves
Kretkowski, 10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)

Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: I now oppose a counterinsurgency (COIN) strategy in Afghanistan and advocate a purely counterterror (CT) strategy (PDF link) there instead.
Blame history—or histories—that I've read recently, starting with Livy's works on early Rome (books I-V) last spring and Donald Kagan's The Peloponnesian War at the end of 2009. I've taken occasional dips back into Robert Kaplan's Warrior Politics and his source materials (Churchill, the Federalists, Machiavelli, Sun Tzu, and several others).
What I've taken from that reading is that the U.S. must pull back from its current efforts to remake Iraq and Afghanistan in the image of a Western democracy, or risk long-term political and economic exhaustion.
What follows is not an argument about morality, and readers may find much of it amoral. It is about making cold-blooded political and economic calculations about where U.S. national interests will lie in the next decade. They do not lie in an open-ended COIN mission.
The history of the Peloponnesian War is particularly relevant here. Athens began fighting Sparta with the resources of an empire and thousands of talents of silver in the bank—enough to fight expensive, far-flung naval and land campaigns for three years without lasting financial consequences.
Athens was rich, and if peace with Sparta had come by the end of the third year, Athens would have continued to prosper and rule over much of the Mediterranean. (Athens had a "hard"—conquered or cowed—empire as opposed to the "soft" empire of alliances and treaties the U.S. currently has.)
But the war with Sparta dragged on for decades, despite occasional peace overtures by both sides. By war's end—despite the spoils of battle and increased taxes and tribute extracted from its shrinking dominion—Athens was broke, depopulated by fighting and plague, bereft of its empire, and could no longer project power into the Mediterranean. Where its former interests ranged from Black Sea Turkey to southern Italy, it spent decades as a small-bore power and never regained its former strength or influence.
I worry that the U.S. is similarly locked into an open-ended commitment to democratize a nation that is of regional rather than global importance—a parallel to Athens convincing itself that it had to conquer distant, militarily insignificant Sicily.
"Winning" in Afghanistan
The U.S. could "win" in Afghanistan where victory is defined as a stable, legitimate central government that can project power within its own borders. I don't doubt that the U.S. and its allies could accomplish this given enough time and resources. But I think—as many COIN experts also do—that it will take at least another decade or more of blood and treasure to produce such a result, if ever.
Of course I'd like to see the results of a successful COIN campaign: a stable democracy, women's rights, and general prosperity for Afghans, who among all Asia's peoples surely deserve those things. I certainly want to end al-Qa'ida's ability to operate freely in South Asia and elsewhere.
The U.S. is the only country that would both conceive of these missions and attempt to carry them out. But goals beyond keeping al-Qa'ida on the run don't serve the long-term interests of the U.S., and I am more interested in regaining and preserving U.S. hard power than I am in the rewards that would come from "winning" a lengthy COIN war.
I fear the U.S. people and government becoming exhausted from the costs of a lengthy COIN effort, just as they are already exhausted from (and have largely forgotten about) the Iraq war. I worry that if this fatigue sits in, the U.S. will abandon foreign-policy leadership as it has done periodically throughout history.
This outcome would be worse than a resurgent Taliban, worse than Afghan women and men being further oppressed, and worse than al-Qa'ida having plentiful additional caves to plot in.
Here are some signs of an exhaustion of U.S. power: The U.S. is already overextended, with commitments in Iraq (shrinking for now), Afghanistan (expanding), Yemen (pending) and Iran (TBD). At home, the U.S. economy remains feeble and in the long term is increasingly hostage to other nations for goods and services it no longer produces (and increasingly, no longer can produce).
Even more worrisome is the U.S. credit situation. The wars, and much other U.S. government spending, are now heavily underwritten by other countries' purchases of debt the U.S. issues. It has borrowed trillions from foreign countries and especially China, which continues its steady, highly rational policy of promoting exports while freeriding under the American security umbrella (just as the U.S. once rode for free beneath Britain's).
Over time, those countries accrue enough debt to have a say in U.S. policies that may threaten the dollar's value, which is why you now see high U.S. officials flying to Beijing to soothe PRC nerves and explain why America keeps borrowing money.
At home, there are few resources to apply following a major disaster, such as a Katrina-style hurricane or a major earthquake.
The U.S. needs to start rebuilding its reserves—of capital, of credit, of political goodwill abroad, of military force—to be ready for these and more serious crises, for which we currently have few resources to spare. Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis); Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).

We’re not invincible – the plan is key to husband American power and stave off disastrous apolarity
Robert Kaplan 12/5, Center for a New American Security senior fellow, The Atlantic Correspondent, 12/5/2010, "A world with no one in charge," http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/03/AR2010120306537.html, 12/6/2010

Currency wars. Terrorist attacks. Military conflicts. Rogue regimes pursuing nuclear weapons. Collapsing states. And now, massive leaks of secret documents. What is the cause of such turbulence? The absence of empire.
During the Cold War, the world was divided between the Soviet and U.S. imperial systems. The Soviet imperium - heir to Kievan Rus, medieval Muscovy and the Romanov dynasty - covered Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia and propped up regimes in Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. The American imperium - heir to maritime Venice and Great Britain - also propped up allies, particularly in Western Europe and East Asia. True to the garrison tradition of imperial Rome, Washington kept bases in West Germany, Turkey, South Korea and Japan, virtually surrounding the Soviet Union.
The breakup of the Soviet empire, though it caused euphoria in the West and led to freedom in Central Europe, also sparked ethnic conflicts in the Balkans and the Caucasus that cost hundreds of thousands of lives and created millions of refugees. (In Tajikistan alone, more than 50,000 people were killed in a civil war that barely registered in the U.S. media in the 1990s.)
The Soviet collapse also unleashed economic and social chaos in Russia itself, as well as the further unmooring of the Middle East. It was no accident that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait less than a year after the Berlin Wall fell, just as it is inconceivable that the United States would have invaded Iraq if the Soviet Union, a staunch patron of Baghdad, still existed in 2003. And had the Soviet empire not fallen apart or ignominiously withdrawn from Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden never would have taken refuge there and the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, might not have happened. Such are the wages of imperial collapse.
Now the other pillar of the relative peace of the Cold War, the United States, is slipping, while new powers such as China and India remain unready and unwilling to fill the void. There will be no sudden breakdown on our part, as the United States, unlike the Soviet Union, is sturdily maintained by economic and political freedom. Rather, America's ability to bring a modicum of order to the world is simply fading in slow motion.
The days of the U.S. dollar as the world's reserve currency are numbered, just as our diplomacy is hobbled by wide-ranging security leaks that are specific to an age of electronic communication, itself hostile to imperial rule.
Then there is America's military power. Armies win wars, but in an age when the theater of conflict is global, navies and air forces are more accurate registers of national might. (Any attack on Iran, for example, would be a sea and air campaign.) The U.S. Navy has gone from nearly 600 warships in the Reagan era to fewer than 300 today, while the navies of China and India grow apace. Such trends will accelerate with the defense cuts that are surely coming in order to rescue America from its fiscal crisis. The United States still dominates the seas and the air and will do so for years ahead, but the distance between it and other nations is narrowing.
Terrorist acts, ethnic atrocities, the yearning after horrible weaponry and the disclosure of secret cables are the work of individuals who cannot escape their own moral responsibility. But the headlines of our era are written in a specific context - that of one deceased empire that used to be the world's preeminent land power and of another, the world's preeminent sea power, that finds itself less able to affect events than ever before, even as it is less sure than ever of the cause toward which it struggles.
This is no indictment of President Obama's foreign policy. There is slim evidence of a credible alternative to his actions on North Korea, Iran and Iraq, while a feisty debate goes on over the proper course in Afghanistan. But there is simply no doubt that the post-imperial order we inhabit allows for greater disruptions than the Cold War ever permitted.
Husbanding our power in an effort to slow America's decline in a post-Iraq and post-Afghanistan world would mean avoiding debilitating land entanglements and focusing instead on being more of an offshore balancer: that is, lurking with our air and sea forces over the horizon, intervening only when outrages are committed that unquestionably threaten our allies and world order in general. While this may be in America's interest, the very signaling of such an aloof intention may encourage regional bullies, given that rogue regimes are the organizing principles for some pivotal parts of the world.
North Korea already plows onward with its nuclear weapons program, even as it lobs artillery shells on a South Korean island, demonstrating the limits of both U.S. and Chinese power in a semi-anarchic world. During the Cold War, North Korea was kept in its box by the Soviet Union while the U.S. Navy dominated the Pacific as though it were an American lake. Now China's economic dominance of the region, coupled with our distracting land wars in the Middle East, is transforming the western Pacific from a benign and stable environment to a more uncertain and complex one.
China's navy is decades behind America's, but that should offer little consolation. The United States, having just experienced asymmetric warfare on land, should now expect asymmetric challenges at sea. With its improving mine-warfare capability, seabed sonar networks and cyber-warfare in the service of anti-ship ballistic missiles, not to mention its diesel-electric and nuclear submarines, China will make U.S. Navy operations more dangerous over the coming years.
As for Taiwan, China has 1,500 short-range ballistic missiles pointed at the island, even as hundreds of commercial flights each week link Taiwan with the mainland in peaceful commerce. When China effectively incorporates Taiwan in the years to come, that will signal the arrival of a truly multipolar and less predictable military environment in East Asia.
In the Middle East we see the real collapse of the Cold War imperial order. The neat Israeli-Arab dichotomy that mirrored the American-Soviet one has been replaced by a less stable power arrangement, with a zone of Iranian influence stretching from Lebanon to western Afghanistan, pitted against both Israel and the Sunni Arab world, and with a newly Islamic, and no longer pro-Western, Turkey rising as a balancing power.
Yes, empires impose order, but that order is not necessarily benevolent, as Iran's budding imperial domain shows. U.S. threats against Iran lack credibility precisely because of our imperial fatigue resulting from Iraq and Afghanistan. Out of self-interest we will probably not involve ourselves in another war in the Middle East - even as that very self-interest could consign the region to a nuclear standoff.
One standard narrative is that as we recede, China will step up as part of a benign post-American world. But this presupposes that all imperial powers are the same, even when history clearly demonstrates that they are not. Nor does one empire sequentially fill the gap left by another.
While the Soviet Union and the United States were both missionary powers motivated by ideals - communism and liberal democracy - through which they might order the world, China has no such grand conception. It is driven abroad by the hunger for natural resources (hydrocarbons, minerals and metals) that it requires to raise hundreds of millions of its citizens into the middle class.
This could abet the development of a trading system between the Indian Ocean, Africa and Central Asia that might maintain peace with minimal American involvement. But who is to fill the moral void? Does China really care if Tehran develops nuclear weapons, so long as it has access to Iran's natural gas? And Beijing may not be entirely comfortable with the North Korean regime, which keeps its population in a state of freeze-frame semi-starvation, but China props it up nevertheless.
It can be argued that with power comes moral responsibility, but it will probably be decades before China has the kind of navy and air force that would lead it to become an authentic partner in an international security system. For the moment, Beijing gets a free ride off the protection of the world's sea lanes that the U.S. Navy helps provide, and watches us struggle to stabilize Afghanistan and Pakistan so that China can one day extract their natural resources.
If the Cold War was an epoch of relative stability, guaranteed by a tacit understanding among empires, we now have one waning empire, that of the United States, trying to bring order amid a world of rising and sometimes hostile powers.
Looming over all of this is the densely crowded global map. Across Eurasia, rural populations have given way to megacities prone to incitement by mass media and to destruction by environmental catastrophe. Lumbering, hard-to-deploy armies are being replaced with overlapping ballistic missile ranges that demonstrate the delivery capabilities of weapons of mass destruction. New technologies make everything affect everything else at a faster and more lethal rate than ever before. The free flow of information, as the WikiLeaks scandal makes clear, and the miniaturization of weaponry, as the terrorist bombings in Pakistani cities make clear, work against the rise and sustenance of imperial orders.
The American empire has always been more structural than spiritual. Its network of alliances certainly resembles those of empires past, and the challenges facing its troops abroad are comparable to those of imperial forces of yore, though the American public, especially after the debacles in Iraq and Afghanistan, is in no mood for any more of the land-centric adventures that have been the stuff of imperialism since antiquity.
Americans rightly lack an imperial mentality. But lessening our engagement with the world would have devastating consequences for humanity. The disruptions we witness today are but a taste of what is to come should our country flinch from its international responsibilities.

Heg is good
Thayer, 6 – professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei¬ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri¬macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in¬terests. But retrenchment, in any of its guis¬es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that would lead to far greater instability and war in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa¬bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa¬bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri¬macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action¬ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur¬ing American primacy takes as its starting point the protec¬tion of the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like oil flow around the world, that the global trade and monetary regimes flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re¬trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, retrenchment will make the United States less secure than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because threats will exist no mat¬ter what role America chooses to play in international politics. Washington can¬not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. Whether they are terror¬ists, rogue states or rising powers, his¬tory shows that threats must be confront¬ed. Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus abandoning its commitments or making unconvinc¬ing half pledges to defend its interests and allies, does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat. To make such a declaration implies weak-ness and emboldens aggression. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna¬tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront¬ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys¬ical, on the ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com¬mon" the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca¬pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today -in a world where Ameri¬can primacy is clearly and unambiguous¬ly on display--is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes, ¬their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America -their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun¬try, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy -and the bandwagon¬ing effect has also given us extensive in¬fluence in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability to cre¬ate coalitions of like minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro¬liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec¬tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun¬tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac¬tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re¬sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica¬tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases Venezuela, Iran, Cuba it is an anti U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin¬sically anti American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. 
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol¬ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con¬sider the current international order free trade, a robust monetary regime, increas¬ing respect for human rights, growing de¬mocratization is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages fol¬lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With¬out U.S. power, the liberal order cre¬ated by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washing¬ton and the world. 
The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela¬tionships aligned -between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars. 
Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread de¬mocracy and other elements of its ideol¬ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter¬ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead¬ership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin¬istration for attempting to spread democ¬racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit¬ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta¬bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per¬haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af¬ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat¬ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash¬ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku¬wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. 
Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob¬al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character¬ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo¬bility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a glob¬al public good from which all states ben¬efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca¬reer confident in the socialist ideology of post independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog¬nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globaliza¬tion, which are facilitated through Amer¬ican primacy.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. 

CONTENTION TWO IS DIPLOMACY

Afghanistan prevents a reorientation of US policy on actual crisis
Haass 12/13 (Richard N. Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, Director of Policy Planning in the US State Department, “The Endgames in Iraq and Afghanistan,” 12/13/10) http://www.cfr.org/publication/23619/endgames_in_iraq_and_afghanistan.html

Troop reductions in Iraq and Afghanistan will also allow the US military to begin to recover from these two conflicts. Neither soldiers nor equipment can sustain the performance that has been demanded of them. Recruitment and retention of highly skilled individuals in the US armed forces will increase as the level of effort in the two conflicts winds down, and a great deal of deferred military modernization will occur.
More fundamentally, reducing US involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan will permit a rebalancing of US foreign and defense policy. The two conflicts have absorbed a disproportionate share of the country's resources – military and economic to be sure, but also the time and attention of policymakers and diplomats.
In the short run, doing less in Iraq and Afghanistan will allow the US to concentrate on the two most immediate external threats to US interests: Iran and North Korea. In the long run, the US needs to generate domestic and international support for regional and global arrangements designed to manage the defining problems of this era, from the spread of nuclear materials and terrorism to maintaining an open world economy and slowing climate change. This will require a foreign policy that focuses on the emerging powers of the twenty-first century, many of which are in Asia.
The US largely squandered the opportunity to shape the international system in the first decade of the new century. Iraq and Afghanistan proved to be strategic distractions, and, particularly in Afghanistan, the US should resist pressures to prolong a substantial military presence.
There is now an opportunity to reorient American foreign policy to concentrate on what matters most. It is in the interest of the US and the world that this opportunity not be missed.

COIN specifically shreds foreign policy coherence—especially resources for diplomacy and climate change
Cohen 09 (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html)

Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to that tumultuous nation will likely wreak havoc on Obama's broader first-term foreign policy agenda - consuming resources, sucking up time and attention, and ultimately subverting his larger foreign policy goals.
In August, National Intelligence Council Chairman John Brennan declared that under Obama, "the fight against terrorists and violent extremists has been returned to its right and proper place: no longer defining - indeed, distorting - our entire national security and foreign policy, but rather serving as a vital part of those larger policies."
But the military commitment endorsed by President Obama would have the reverse effect - officially making stabilization in Afghanistan and the war against Al Qaeda and the Taliban the President's top priority.
For example, one of the most serious challenges facing the country's national security bureaucracy - one Obama and Secretary of State Clinton have expressed serious concern about in the past - is the skewed balance between resources for our military and civilian agencies. Nearly everyone in the foreign policy community agrees that both State and the U.S. Agency for International Development are badly under-resourced.
But with Obama's likely troop increase in Afghanistan, agencies like the State Department and USAID will see their dwindling capacity devoted to assisting the military as opposed to the long-term diplomacy and development work that can further U.S. interests in places not named Afghanistan or Pakistan. The civilian-military balance will only become further skewed.
And if the administration requests $100 billion a year for the war in Afghanistan, in the face of looming budget deficits, what are the chances Congress will loosen its purse strings further for two underappreciated foreign policy agencies?
Finally, Obama and his advisers will be pressed in devoting their attention and political capital to other foreign policy matters, whether it's pushing for a solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, organizing an international coalition to confront the Iranian nuclear program or hammering out international agreements on climate change and trade. It's never easy for Presidents and their advisers to proverbially "walk and chew gum at the same time," and having 100,000 troops in Afghanistan will make it that much harder.
But above all, Obama's goal of changing America's mind-set from the belief that there is a military solution to every national 
security challenge will be dealt a defining and perhaps fatal blow - and in the end, that is probably the most important reason why troop levels in Afghanistan matter and why the President should think twice. The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President.
As he prepares to announce a decision that will define his presidency, Obama would be wise to consider the words of one of his predecessors in the Oval Office, Lyndon Johnson, who after leaving office told a biographer, "History provided too many cases where the sound of the bugle put an immediate end to the hopes and dreams of the best reformers." No doubt Obama knows what ultimately happened to Johnson's policy agenda - and his presidency.

Effective diplomacy is key to stop warming
Hague 9/27 (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10)

But I particularly wanted to make the point to this audience and to circulate to a wider audience certain points about climate change this morning, which is perhaps the 21st century's biggest foreign- policy challenge, along with preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. I believe those two threats over the longer term are the biggest threats to the peace and security of the world.
A world that is failing to respond to climate change is one in which the values embodied in the United Nations will not be met, and it's a world in which competition and conflict would win out over collaboration.
We're at a very crucial point in the global debate on this subject. Many people are questioning, in the wake of Copenhagen, whether we should continue to seek a response to climate change through the U.N. and whether we can ever hope to deal with this enormous challenge.
And I will first argue today that an effective response to climate change underpins our security and prosperity; second, that our response should be to strive for a binding global deal, whatever the setbacks; and third, I will set out why effective deployment of foreign policy assets is crucial to mobilizing the political will needed if we're going to shape an effective response.
Now, Ban Ki-moon is right to have made climate change his top priority. Two weeks ago, I was talking about Britain's values in a networked world. I said then that a successful response to climate change must be a central objective of British foreign policy. And I said this not only because I believe action against climate change is in line with a values-based foreign policy, but because it underpins our prosperity and security.
You can't have food, water or energy security without climate security; they are interconnected and inseparable. They form four resource pillars on which global security, prosperity and equity stand. Each depends on the other. Plentiful, affordable food requires reliable and affordable access to water and energy. Increasing dependence on coal, oil and gas threatens climate security, increasing the severity of floods and droughts, damaging food production, exacerbating the loss of biodiversity, and in countries that rely on hydropower, undermining energy security through the impact on the availability of water.
As the world becomes more networked, the impact of climate change in one country or region will affect the prosperity and security of others around the world.
No one can have failed to be appalled by the devastating floods in Pakistan. They overwhelmed the capacity of government to respond and opened political space for extremists. While Pakistan has borne the brunt of the human impact, China too has been hit on a vast scale by a seemingly endless sequence of droughts, floods and deadly mudslides. The Russian drought last month damaged the wheat harvest, leading to an export ban. World prices surged, hitting the poorest hardest, and sparking riots over bread prices in far away Mozambique.
While no one weather event can ever be linked with certainty to climate change, the broad patterns of abnormality seen this year are consistent with climate-change models. They provide an illustration of the events we will be encountering increasingly in the future.
So the clock is ticking, and the time to act is now. We must all take responsibility for this threat and take robust action. But we must also be clear-headed about the difficulties of reaching agreement and not lose heart when the going gets tough.
The post-war leaders set up the United Nations in the aftermath of conflagration. They saw the pressing need for global solutions to global problems: cooperation not conflict, through frameworks and institutions embedded in the rule of law, and an international system that is fair and offers everyone a realistic prospect of security and prosperity.
Failure to respond to climate change is inimical to all these values, undermining trust between nations, intensifying competition for resources, and shrinking the political space available for cooperation. It is an affront to fairness, since it puts the greatest burden on those who have done least to cause the problem and are least able to deal with its consequences.
It is incompatible with the values and aspirations that the U.N. embodies. And it's incompatible with the values and aspirations of British foreign policy.
For more than 20 years, we've been striving to build an effective international response to climate change. But we have lacked the collective ambition required. We need to shift investment urgently from high-carbon "business as usual" to the low-carbon economy. This means building an essentially decarbonized global economy by mid- century.
At the same time, we must ensure development is climate resilient; otherwise, the changes in climate that are already unavoidable will block the path for hundreds of millions of people from poverty to prosperity. These changes also threaten to sweep away the investments in development we have made, and just as the bridges and schools in Pakistan were swept away.
To drive that shift in investment from low to high carbon, we need a global climate change deal under the United Nations.
Now, some have argued that we should abandon hope of doing so. They say Copenhagen proved it's all too difficult; we should focus instead on less inclusive and less demanding responses, such as coalitions of the willing. But we believe this would be a strategic error. It mistakes the nature of the task, which is to expand the realm of the possible, not to lower our ambition by accepting its current limits.
And we must recognize this at Cancun. One thing Copenhagen did give us was a set of political commitments, captured in the Copenhagen Accord, on which we can build. More than 120 countries have now associated themselves with that accord, and that represents a broad and growing consensus. We now need to ensure that we live up to the commitments we made to each other in the accord, and reach out even more widely.
Copenhagen, despite those accords, was a strategic setback, but it was not by any means the end of the road. We need to be clear why it failed to live up to high expectations and why it did not deliver a legally binding deal.
Many people say that it failed because of process: The diplomats and the politicians had created a negotiation that was too difficult and too complex. But this misses the point. International treaties are an outcome, not an input, of political bargains. If you've made the political commitment to deliver, you can make the process work to deliver.
The real reason Copenhagen did not deliver on high expectations was a lack of political will. Many in developing countries saw a gap between the words and the deeds of the industrialized economies. They questioned whether we really believed our own rhetoric. And to answer those questions, we each need to start at home.
That is why the coalition government to which I belong has committed itself to being the greenest government ever in the United Kingdom, and why, with others in Europe, we are calling on the European Union to commit to a 30-percent cut in emissions by 2020 without waiting for the rest of the world to act.
The UK is already the world leader in offshore wind, with more projects installed, in planning and in construction than any other country in the world. We're undertaking the most radical transformation of our electricity sector ever. We aim to provide over 30 percent of our domestic electricity from renewables by 2020. We have committed to build no new coal-fired power stations without carbon capture and storage technology, and we've announced our intention to continue the demonstration projects of that.
And because it's imperative that foreign and domestic policies are mutually reinforcing, we must ensure that our approach is coherent. Now, that's one reason we have established the new British National Security Council: to ensure this happens across the full range of issues, including climate change.
And that's why I work hand in glove with Chris Huhne, the British Energy and Climate Change secretary, and Andrew Mitchell, the International Development secretary, to ensure that our domestic action reflects our level of international ambition.
But we won't succeed, of course, if we act alone. We must aim for a framework that is global and binding. It needs to be global because climate change affects everyone. Only a response that allows everyone a voice will generate a sense of common purpose and legitimacy. Only a response that is binding will convince investors that we intend to keep the promises we make to each other. Businesses need clear political signals, so let's show them an unequivocal green light.
We are now a few weeks away from the 16th Conference of Parties on Climate Change in Cancun. And I commend the consultative and collaborative approach Mexico has taken ahead of this meeting. Thanks to their determination and foresight, we have a chance in Cancun to regain momentum and make progress on key issues such as forests, technology, finance and transparency of commitments. Cancun will -- may not get us all the way to a full agreement, but it can put us back on track to one.
That said, the negotiations can't succeed inside a bubble. The negotiators in the U.N. process can't themselves build political will. They have to operate on the basis of current political realities in the countries they represent. And it's those realities that limit the ambition that we can set in the -- in such negotiations, and it's those realities that we now need to shift.
There is no global consensus on what climate change puts at risk, geopolitically and for the global economy, and thus on the scale and urgency of the response we need. We must build a global consensus if we are to guarantee our citizens security and prosperity. That is a job for foreign policy.
A fundamental purpose here for foreign policy is to shift the political debate, to create the political space for leaders and negotiators to reach agreement. We didn't get that right before Copenhagen, and we must get it right now.
So we urgently need to mobilize foreign ministers and the diplomats they lead, as well as institutions such as the Council on Foreign Relations, to put climate change at the heart of foreign- policy thinking.
When I became foreign secretary in May, I said the core goals of our foreign policy were to guarantee Britain's security and prosperity. Robust global action on climate change is essential to that agenda. That is why the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, under my leadership, is a vocal advocate for climate diplomacy. All British ambassadors carry the argument for a global low-carbon transition in their breast pocket or in their handbag. Climate change is part of their daily vocabulary, alongside the traditional themes of foreign policy. And they're supported by our unique network of climate attaches throughout the world.
The core assets of foreign policy are its networks and its convening power. Foreign policy can build political impulses to overcome barriers between sectors and cultures. In a networked world, diplomacy builds partnerships beyond government. And nowhere are those partnerships more vital than on climate.
So we must mobilize all our networks, not just across government but between governments, using organizations such as the Commonwealth as well. We must reach out, beyond, to NGOs, faith groups and businesses. And of all these, perhaps business engagement is the key to making a difference. It's business that will lead low-carbon transition. It's business that best understands the incentives needed to help us all prosper.
We must also harness scientific expertise in cutting-edge low- carbon technologies. The scientific community will develop the goods which will power the low-carbon economy and drive global ambition on climate change. And that's why the British government has a science and innovation network, which fosters collaborative research in the U.K. and other countries.
Now, what can the U.K. and the European Union do to make that fundamental shift and shape a global consensus on climate change? The most serious problem at Copenhagen, and the strongest brake on political will, was and is a lack of confidence in the low-carbon economy. Too few people in too few countries are yet convinced that a rapid move to low carbon is compatible with economic recovery and growth. They see the short-term economic and domestic stability risks before the opportunities and the longer-term risks of inaction.
There should be only one European response to that confidence gap. The EU, in my view, must accelerate its own progress and demonstrate that a low-carbon growth path makes us more competitive. I am convinced this is in the long-term interests of Europe's economy. We have learned painful lessons from the oil price shocks. We must modernize our infrastructure. The opportunities are out there. The global industry in low-carbon and environmental goods and services is already estimated to be worth up to 3.2 trillion pounds a year. Nearly a million British people are now employed in this sector, and that's why we are creating a green investment bank to ensure that we can properly support and develop low-carbon industry.
But we need to redouble our efforts, both in the EU (itself ?) and in our engagement with partners. Each of us as member states will be better able to accelerate if we're doing so together as the world's largest single market. And by opening up this effort through partnership with others, we can make it easier for them to accelerate, too.
So we'll be at the forefront of pushing for low-carbon modernization of Europe's infrastructure and energy policy. The European Union's budget until 2013 is set out in the current "financial perspective".
We will argue -- we will need to agree the financial perspective for the seven years after that, the period including our 2020 climate goals. And it's -- as ever, it's right that the EU budget should reflect the prevailing economic circumstances. It's also right that we direct the budget to today's challenges, not those of yesterday. And that means one that supports the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Action in Europe alone will not be enough. We need both the developed and developing world to take action. And this week Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, and I have tasked our teams to come together to shape a coordinated, diplomacy-led effort on climate change, combining the strengths of our respective foreign services.
I've just put the case for bringing a new urgency for low-carbon transition within the EU. But together we should carry that urgency in external dialogues, whether they are with the United States, China or India.
The transition to low carbon will happen faster and maximize the benefit for all if the United States -- historically the world's largest emitter -- is at the leading edge. I recognize the political challenges that the U.S. administration faces and welcome President Obama's commitment to combat climate change. As he said in his State of the Union speech, "the nation that leads the clean-energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy."
Whatever the outcome of the upcoming midterm elections in the U.S., there is scope for political unity around an economic agenda that targets new energy opportunities and new jobs. American business understands this new market and should want to lead it. But to make these new clean-energy investments at the required pace and on a sufficient scale, they need the right incentives.
On climate, as in so many areas, the world looks to the US for leadership, because it has the economic clout and diplomatic leverage to shift the global debate.
And I look forward to working with the U.S. administration and indeed with the Council on Foreign Relations to raise global ambitions and put us back on the path to sustainable growth.
A key challenge for Europe is to build an economic partnership with China that reinforces the steps China is taking towards a low- carbon economy. These steps include its recent announcement of the five provinces and eight cities that have been designated as China's low-carbon pilots. Together these pilots cover 350 million people, so an ambitious approach to these schemes, tenaciously implemented, could provide a critical boost to global confidence in the concept of low- carbon development and help put China on the path to sustainable prosperity.
It could also produce huge two-way investment and partnership opportunities. Europe should place itself at the heart of these, working with China to maximize the ambition and the opportunities and to build the shared technology standards that will shape a global low- carbon market.
In China's case, low-carbon opportunity is matched by urgent low- carbon need. The pace of growth in China means average Chinese per- capita emissions could soon eclipse those of Europe. So while China has taken some very welcome steps, without a commitment from China to further decisive action, the efforts of others will be in vain.
The emerging economies face a dilemma. Often they are the most vulnerable to the direct effects of climate change. But they are concerned that action against climate change will adversely affect their development. The challenge to all countries is to have a high- growth, low-carbon economy. Some, like Brazil, which derives nearly half its energy from clean and renewable resources, are rising to that challenge.
India is another, embodying in microcosm the challenge that climate change poses to us all. Threatened by food, water and energy insecurity, India has responded with ambitious plans to generate 20 gigawatts of solar power by 2022.
South Africa, a coal-dependent economy, the success of which is so important to growth and prosperity within the continent, has made a significant offer to deviate their emissions from the business-as- usual pathway.
The opportunity is for the emerging economies -- for the emerging economies is to make a direct leap to low carbon, avoiding the high- carbon lock-in that we see in the developed world: a new, sustainable pathway for prosperity and security. A global low-carbon economy is not an idealist's pipe dream but a 21st-century realist's imperative. Countries that adapt quickly to a carbon-constrained world will be better able to deliver lasting prosperity for their citizens. As a Permanent Security Council member, I'm determined that the U.K. will play its full part in that, not least by supporting climate finance for the poorest.
Collectively, we share a responsibility to those most vulnerable to the impact of climate change. Bangladesh, with its densely populated coastal region, is particularly susceptible to rising sea levels. Glacial melt, sea-level rises and El Nino-type events threaten the lives of millions across South America. And the very existence of many small island states is under threat.
We have a shared vision to meet the Millennium Development Goals. But in a world without action on climate change, that vision will remain a dream, and the efforts of the last 10 years would
So climate change is one of the gravest threats to our security and prosperity. Unless we take robust and timely action to deal with it, no country will be immune to its effects. However difficult it might seem now, a global deal under the U.N. is the only response to this threat which will create the necessary confidence to drive a low- carbon transition.
We must be undaunted by the scale of the challenge.
We must continue to strive for agreement. We must not accept that because there is no consensus on a way forward now, that there never will be one. And to change the debate, we must imaginatively deploy all of the foreign policy assets in our armory until we've shaped that global consensus.
A successful response to climate change will not only stabilize the climate, but open the way to a future in which we can meet our needs through cooperation, in accordance with the ideals of the United Nations. Failure to do so will enhance competitive tendencies and make the world more dangerous, so this is not actually a hard choice.
We have to get this right. If we do, we can still shape our world. And if we don't, the world will determine our destiny for us.

Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction
Sify 2010 – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html, WEA)

The findings of the comprehensive report: 'The impact of climate change on the world's marine ecosystems' emerged from a synthesis of recent research on the world's oceans, carried out by two of the world's leading marine scientists.
One of the authors of the report is Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at The University of Queensland and the director of its Global Change Institute (GCI).
'We may see sudden, unexpected changes that have serious ramifications for the overall well-being of humans, including the capacity of the planet to support people. This is further evidence that we are well on the way to the next great extinction event,' says Hoegh-Guldberg.
'The findings have enormous implications for mankind, particularly if the trend continues. The earth's ocean, which produces half of the oxygen we breathe and absorbs 30 per cent of human-generated carbon dioxide, is equivalent to its heart and lungs. This study shows worrying signs of ill-health. It's as if the earth has been smoking two packs of cigarettes a day!,' he added.
'We are entering a period in which the ocean services upon which humanity depends are undergoing massive change and in some cases beginning to fail', he added.
The 'fundamental and comprehensive' changes to marine life identified in the report include rapidly warming and acidifying oceans, changes in water circulation and expansion of dead zones within the ocean depths.
These are driving major changes in marine ecosystems: less abundant coral reefs, sea grasses and mangroves (important fish nurseries); fewer, smaller fish; a breakdown in food chains; changes in the distribution of marine life; and more frequent diseases and pests among marine organisms.
Study co-author John F Bruno, associate professor in marine science at The University of North Carolina, says greenhouse gas emissions are modifying many physical and geochemical aspects of the planet's oceans, in ways 'unprecedented in nearly a million years'.
'This is causing fundamental and comprehensive changes to the way marine ecosystems function,' Bruno warned, according to a GCI release.
These findings were published in Science

Second is prolif and global stability—cooperation ensures new weapons states and rising powers are stable—the impact is nuke war
Dyer, 04 - worked as a freelance journalist, columnist, broadcaster and lecturer on international affairs for more than 20 years, but he was originally trained as an historian. Born in Newfoundland, he received degrees from Canadian, American and British universities, finishing with a Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History from the University of London. [Gwynne, "The end of war," Toronto Star, 12/30, l/n]

War is deeply embedded in our history and our culture, probably since before we were even fully human, but weaning ourselves away from it should not be a bigger mountain to climb than some of the other changes we have already made in the way we live, given the right incentives. And we have certainly been given the right incentives: The holiday from history that we have enjoyed since the early '90s may be drawing to an end, and another great-power war, fought next time with nuclear weapons, may be lurking in our future..
The "firebreak" against nuclear weapons use that we began building after Hiroshima and Nagasaki has held for well over half a century now. But the proliferation of nuclear weapons to new powers is a major challenge to the stability of the system. So are the coming crises, mostly environmental in origin, which will hit some countries much harder than others, and may drive some to desperation.
Add in the huge impending shifts in the great-power system as China and India grow to rival the United States in GDP over the next 30 or 40 years and it will be hard to keep things from spinning out of control. With good luck and good management, we may be able to ride out the next half-century without the first-magnitude catastrophe of a global nuclear war, but the potential certainly exists for a major die-back of human population.
We cannot command the good luck, but good management is something we can choose to provide. It depends, above all, on preserving and extending the multilateral system that we have been building since the end of World War II. The rising powers must be absorbed into a system that emphasizes co-operation and makes room for them, rather than one that deals in confrontation and raw military power. If they are obliged to play the traditional great-power game of winners and losers, then history will repeat itself and everybody loses.
Our hopes for mitigating the severity of the coming environmental crises also depend on early and concerted global action of a sort that can only happen in a basically co-operative international system. 
When the great powers are locked into a military confrontation, there is simply not enough spare attention, let alone enough trust, to make deals on those issues, so the highest priority at the moment is to keep the multilateral approach alive and avoid a drift back into alliance systems and arms races. And there is no point in dreaming that we can leap straight into some never-land of universal brotherhood; we will have to confront these challenges and solve the problem of war within the context of the existing state system.

Third is managing global dynamics – population pressures, resources, rising powers, all threaten global nuclear conflict – diplomacy key to resolve
Fareed Zakaria 8, Ph.D. in Government from Harvard University, & editor of Foreign Affairs magazine & Newsweek Internationa & professor of IR and political philosophy at Harvard and Columbia University, “Wanted: A New Grand Strategy”, 12/8/08, http://www.newsweek.com/id/171249

The "Global Trends" report identifies several worrying aspects of the new international order—competition for resources like oil, food, commodities and water; climate change; continued terrorist threats; and demographic shifts. But the most significant point it makes is that these changes are taking place at every level and at great speed in the global system. Nations with differing political and economic systems are flourishing. Subnational groups, with varied and contradictory agendas, are on the rise. Technology is increasing the pace of change. Such ferment is usually a recipe for instability. Sudden shifts can trigger sudden actions—terrorist attacks, secessionist outbreaks, nuclear brinksmanship.
The likelihood of instability might increase because of the economic crisis. Despite some booms and busts—as well as 9/11 and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq—the world has been living through an economic golden age. Global growth has been stronger for the past five years than in any comparable period for almost five decades. Average per capita income has risen faster than in any such period in recorded history. But that era is over. The next five years are likely to be marked by slow growth, perhaps even stagnation and retreat, in certain important areas. What will be the political effects of this slowdown? Historically, economic turmoil has been accompanied by social unrest, nationalism and protectionism. We might avoid these dangers, but it is worth being acutely aware of them.
At the broadest level, the objective of the United States should be to stabilize the current global order and to create mechanisms through which change—the rise of new powers, economic turmoil, the challenge of subnational groups like Al Qaeda—can be accommodated without overturning the international order. Why? The world as it is organized today powerfully serves America's interests and ideals. The greater the openness of the global system, the better the prospects for trade, commerce, contact, pluralism and liberty.
Any strategy that is likely to succeed in today's world will be one that has the active support and participation of many countries. Consider the financial crisis, which several Western governments initially tried to handle on their own. They seemed to forget about globalization—and nothing is more globalized than capital. Belatedly recognizing this, leaders held the G20 meeting in Washington. This was a good first step (though just a first step). Without a coordinated approach, efforts to patch up the system will fail.
The same applies not just to "soft" problems of the future—pandemics, climate change—but to current security challenges as well. The problem of multilateralism in Afghanistan—a place where everyone claims to be united in the struggle—is a sad test case for the future. Thirty-seven nations, operating with the blessing of the United Nations and attacking an organization that has brutally killed civilians in dozens of countries, are still unable to succeed. Why? There are many reasons, but it does not help that few countries involved—from our European allies to Pakistan—are genuinely willing to put aside their narrow parochial interests for a broader common one. Terrorism in South Asia generally requires effective multinational cooperation. Business as usual will produce terrorism that will become usual.
National rivalries, some will say, are in the nature of international politics. But that's no longer good enough. Without better and more sustained cooperation, it is difficult to see how we will solve most of the major problems of the 21st century. The real crisis we face is not one of capitalism or American decline, but of globalization itself. As the problems spill over borders, the demand for common action has gone up. But the institutions and mechanisms to make it happen are in decline. The United Nations, NATO and the European Union are all functioning less effectively than they should be. I hold no brief for any specific institution. The United Nations, especially the Security Council, is flawed and dysfunctional. But we need someinstitutions for global problem-solving, some mechanisms to coordinate policy. Unless we can find ways to achieve this, we should expect more crises and less success at solving them.
In a world characterized by change, more and more countries—especially great powers like Russia and China and India—will begin to chart their own course. That in turn will produce greater instability. America cannot forever protect every sea lane, broker every deal and fight every terrorist group. Without some mechanisms to solve common problems, the world as we have come to know it, with an open economy and all the social and political benefits of this openness, will flounder and perhaps reverse.
Now, these gloomy forecasts are not inevitable. Worst-case scenarios are developed so that they can be prevented. And there are many good signs in the world today. The most significant rising power—China—does not seem to seek to overturn the established order (as have many newly rising powers in the past) but rather to succeed within it. Considerable cooperation takes place every day at the ground level, among a large number of countries, on issues from nuclear nonproliferation to trade policy.
Sometimes a crisis provides an opportunity. The Washington G20 meeting, for instance, was an interesting portent of a future "post-American" world. Every previous financial crisis had been handled by the IMF, the World Bank or the G7 (or G8). This time, the emerging nations were fully represented. At the same time, the meeting was held in Washington, and George W. Bush presided. The United States retains a unique role in the emerging world order. It remains the single global power. It has enormous convening, agenda-setting and leadership powers, although they must be properly managed and shared with all the world's major players, old and new, in order to be effective.
President-elect Obama has powers of his own, too. I will not exaggerate the importance of a single personality, but Obama has become a global symbol like none I can recall in my lifetime. Were he to go to Tehran, for example, he would probably draw a crowd of millions, far larger than any mullah could dream of. Were his administration to demonstrate in its day-to-day conduct a genuine understanding of other countries' perspectives and an empathy for the aspirations of people around the world, it could change America's reputation in lasting ways.
This is a rare moment in history. A more responsive America, better attuned to the rest of the world, could help create a new set of ideas and institutions—an architecture of peace for the 21st century that would bring stability, prosperity and dignity to the lives of billions of people. Ten years from now, the world will have moved on; the rising powers will have become unwilling to accept an agenda conceived in Washington or London or Brussels. But at this time and for this man, there is a unique opportunity to use American power to reshape the world. This is his moment. He should seize it.

CONTENTION THREE IS SOLVENCY

Shift to CT solves – no risk of Taliban takeover or terrorism
ASG 8/16 —The Afghanistan Study Group, an ad hoc group of public policy practitioners, former U.S. government officials, academics, business representatives, policy-concerned activists and association leaders concerned with the Obama administration’s policy course in Afghanistan, 8/16/10, (“What’s Wrong With The Current U.S Strategy,” A New Way Forward: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”) http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/2010/08/13/the-way-fo-rward-a-five-point-approach/

Second, a U.S. drawdown would not make Al Qaeda substantially more lethal. In order for events in Afghanistan to enhance Al Qaeda’s ability to threaten the U.S. homeland, three separate steps must occur: 1) the Taliban must seize control of a substantial portion of the country, 2) Al Qaeda must relocate there in strength, and 3) it must build facilities in this new “safe haven” that will allow it to plan and train more effectively than it can today.
Each of these three steps is unlikely, however, and the chances of all three together are very remote. For starters, a Taliban victory is unlikely even if the United States reduces its military commitment. The Taliban is a rural insurgency rooted primarily in Afghanistan’s Pashtun population, and its seizure of power in the 1990s was due to unusual circumstances that no longer exist and are unlikely to be repeated. Non-Pashtun Afghans now have ample experience with Taliban rule, and they are bound to resist any Taliban efforts to regain control in Kabul. Moreover, the U.S. military presence has helped the Taliban rally its forces, meaning that the group may well fragment and suffer a loss of momentum in the face of a U.S. drawdown. Surveys suggest that popular support for the Taliban among Afghans is in the single digits.
Even with significantly reduced troop levels, we can build a credible defense against a Taliban takeover through support for local security forces, strategic use of airpower, and deployment in key cities without committing ourselves to a costly and counterproductive COIN (counterinsurgency) campaign in the south. And if power-sharing and political inclusion is negotiated, the relevance of the Taliban as an alternative to Kabul is likely to decline.
And even if the Taliban were to regain power in some of Afghanistan, it would likely not invite Al Qaeda to re-establish a significant presence there. The Taliban may be reluctant to risk renewed U.S. attacks by welcoming Al Qaeda onto Afghan soil. Bin Laden and his associates may well prefer to remain in Pakistan, which is both safer and a better base from which to operate than isolated and land-locked Afghanistan.
Most importantly, no matter what happens in Afghanistan in the future, Al Qaeda will not be able to build large training camps of the sort it employed prior to the 9/11 attacks. Simply put, the U.S. would remain vigilant and could use air power to eliminate any Al Qaeda facility that the group might attempt to establish. Bin Laden and his associates will likely have to remain in hiding for the rest of their lives, which means Al Qaeda will have to rely on clandestine cells instead of large encampments. Covert cells can be located virtually anywhere, which is why the outcome in Afghanistan is not critical to addressing the threat from Al Qaeda.
In short, a complete (and unlikely) victory in Afghanistan and the dismantling of the Taliban would not make Al Qaeda disappear; indeed, it would probably have no appreciable effect on Al Qaeda. At the same time, dramatically scaling back U.S. military engagement will not significantly increase the threat from Al Qaeda.
Third, the current U.S. military effort is helping fuel the very insurgency we are attempting to defeat. An expanded U.S. presence has reinforced perceptions of the United States as a foreign occupier. Religious extremists have used the U.S. presence as an effective recruiting tool for their cause. Efforts to limit civilian casualties and other forms of collateral damage have been only partially successful, leading additional Afghans to take up arms against us.
Fourth, the expanded U.S. presence and a more energetic counterinsurgency effort in Afghanistan and Pakistan have reinforced a tacit alliance among different extremist groups whose agendas are not identical. The Taliban is itself a loose coalition of Pashtuns, many of whom are motivated by local concerns rather than by any deep commitment to global jihad. Al Qaeda, by contrast, is a global network of radical Islamists seeking to topple governments throughout the Middle East. The “Pakistani Taliban” are a separate alliance of different Islamist groups challenging the authority of the Pakistani state. The Haqqani network in Waziristan is led by a local warlord who is strongly opposed to foreign interference but reportedly also a sometime ally of Pakistan’s Inter-Service Intelligence agency (ISI).
Although cooperation among these disparate groups has increased in recent years, this development is largely a reaction to the increased foreign presence in the region and our efforts to convince the Pakistani government to take more aggressive action against these groups. Thus, our current strategy is helping drive these groups together, when our real aim should be to drive wedges between as many of them as possible and to win over those who do not share Al Qaeda’s anti-Western agenda or its commitment to global jihad.
Fifth, keeping 100,000-plus U.S. troops in yet another Muslim country lends credence to jihadi propaganda about America’s alleged hostility to Islam. Their presence may actually be increasing the overall danger that we face back home. Anger at U.S. military action in the Af/Pak theater inspired Faisal Shahzad, a U.S. citizen, to attempt an unsuccessful car bomb attack in Times Square, and other home-grown terrorists appear to have been inspired by similar motivations.

CT key to stable, long term presence – larger footprints are perceived as unsustainable and cause allies to doubt our resolve
Ward 12/15 (Jon Ward, The Daily Caller, “Influential Think Tank Calls on Obama to ‘own’ Afghan war, give clear long-term troop commitment,” 12/15/10) http://www.cnas.org/node/5437
December 15, 2010 — A new report on Afghanistan says that the U.S. public should prepare to have roughly 30,000 troops there for years to come – conducting “a prolonged low level of unconventional war” – in large part because the terrorist threat from the region is not going away, probably for decades.
“It’s time to recognize that the war in Afghanistan will not end in July 2011, and that the United States and its allies need a new strategy,” says the report from the Center for a New American Security.
CNAS is an influential think tank founded in 2007 by Michelle Flournoy and Kurt Campbell, who are now top government officials in the Obama administration at the Pentagon and the State Department, respectively.
Obama, the report said, has yet to articulate an “‘end game’ in Afghanistan – what the enduring U.S. presence and commitment would look like, or if there would be one at all.”
The report was authored by retired U.S. Army Lt. Gen. David Barno, who commanded U.S. troops in Afghanistan in 2003, and Andrew Exum, a former Army Ranger and civilian adviser to Gen. Stanley McChrystal, who commanded the mission from June 2009 to June 2010.
In fact, President Obama has already in recent weeks moved the deadline for the removal of U.S. troops from July 2011 to December 2014. But Barno and Exum argued that the perception remains in the region that the U.S. is just biding its time until it abandons Afghanistan.
The message received by Afghans at all levels of society from Obama’s December 2009 speech at West Point – where he first announced both a 30,000 troop increase and the July 2011 withdrawal date – was simple, the report said: “The Americans are leaving.”
“The U.S. has to dispel that uncertainty. We have to a commit to a long term strategy and a long term military deployment: not a large one but a sustainable one in Afghanistan,” Barno said. “Today if you’re a Pakistani national security adviser, or you’re an Afghan adviser to President Karzai, you’re operating under the assumption that the U.S. is leaving, and that’s it’s only a matter of time. We have to dispel that notion.”
Their report is clear-eyed both about the rapidly declining level of support among Americans for the war, as well as the dwindling amount of treasure available to fund such expensive military operations, because of the nation’s deficit and debt troubles.
“By 2018, the baseline U.S. defense budget of about $550 billion will be matched by annual interest payments on [the national] debt, which will only grow thereafter,” they note.
But they argue that the impact of a destabilizing exit from Afghanistan is a grave enough threat to U.S. national security to merit a continued investment, albeit a smaller one. There would be a greater ability for terrorist organizations such as Al Qaeda to plan attacks on the U.S., and an increasing risk of Pakistan’s nuclear weaponry falling into the hands of rogue actors if the government there falls.
Barno and Exum’s report states that they are offering “a responsible alternative to an exit strategy that ends the U.S. presence by precipitately turning the war over to the Afghans and … once again abandoning Central Asia as the United States tried in the 1990’s, to devastating effect.”
Obama met with his national security team regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan for two hours on Tuesday, in advance of a speech to the nation on the topic Thursday.
White House officials say the U.S. has made clear that the U.S. is committed to Afghanistan, but not without limits.
“We are committed to a long term partnership with both Afghanistan and Pakistan and have repeatedly express this publicly and privately. But, we are not providing an open ended commitment on troops,” a senior White House official told The Daily Caller.
The official said that Afghan President Hamid Karzai has made clear “he would like to transition to full Afghan control by 2014,” and that the Obama administration and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has about 40,000 troops to the 100,000 American in Afghanistan, are on board with that timeline.
“An integral part of our strategy all along has been the training of the [Afghan National Army] and [Afghan National Police] in order to enable them to take over providing security for their people. Our continued military presence will be determined by conditions on the ground and as the President said at the NATO summit in Lisbon, our aim is to end our combat mission in 2014,” the White House official said.
“The rationale is that by making clear that we will not be there indefinitely, it puts more of a sense of urgency on the Afghans to assume responsibility. This approach worked quite well in Iraq.”
Barno and Exum share the goal of turning over most security throughout the country – a task done now largely by regular U.S. military and NATO troops – to Afghans. But they argued Tuesday that in order for this hand over to happen, the Afghan people and society need to have confidence that the U.S. will be a partner for many years to come.
Only a clear promise of boots on the ground – Barno and Exum argue for a force primarily comprised of special operations forces to conduct surgical strikes – that is “for many years to come” will give this confidence.
“The psychological impact of this on the government of Pakistan, the government of Afghanistan, and on the Taliban – when they look at what their future is going to look like – could be quite substantial,” Barno said at a forum hosted by the Newseum.
Exum added: “What we need the Afghan people to do, we at least need them to send their sons into the Afghan national security forces. We’ve got to convince the Afghan people to make a choice … toward the government of Afghanistan.”
“You do that with a long term commitment to Afghanistan.”

A counterterrorism posture empirically works – it reduces the threat of terrorism and can provide actionable intelligence without undermining US credibility
Long, 10 - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct)

It will therefore take about three years to get to this posture. But will it work? First, this is clearly not the U.S. posture before September 11, 2001, so any comparisons to that period are inapt. Second, arguments that this was essentially the United States posture from 2002-2006 are much closer to the mark. However, here the argument is that this posture ‘‘failed’’ because the militants have made a comeback. Yet this misinterprets the strategic goal completely. If the strategic goal is a stable Afghanistan, then the strategy was a failure. If the strategic goal is to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda in Afghanistan, it was a success: there are, at present, few al Qaeda members in Afghanistan and certainly no senior leadership. In an interview on October 5, 2009 national security adviser James Jones noted of al Qaeda in Afghanistan that the ‘‘maximum estimate is less than 100 operating in the country, no bases, no ability to launch attacks on either us or our allies.’’41 The counterterrorism option merely seeks to ensure that this minimal level of al Qaeda presence continues in the future.
Alternately, this argument conflates all militants under the rubric al Qaeda. This is problematic: if any thug with a Kalashnikov is a threat to U.S. national security then readers should prepare for a rough future as there are millions of them spread across the globe. It is this conflating of the local fighter with the global terrorist that David Kilcullen’s Accidental Guerilla rails against, so it would behoove the United States to avoid this error.42
More generally, Riedel and O’Hanlon claim this small footprint posture will be ineffective because actionable intelligence will not be obtained without a substantial conventional force ground presence. Yet this is belied by the fact that the United States gains actionable intelligence against targets in even very dangerous areas in which it has essentially no ground forces. In 

Somalia in 1993, a small U.S. task force, supported by a small conventional force, was able to collect intelligence on the Habr Gidr clan.43 CIA and special operations personnel were also able to collect intelligence in Iraq before the 2003 invasion.44
The United States also has a good track record of gaining actionable intelligence specifically against al Qaeda in hostile environments without conventional forces. At least three times in 2007-2009, the United States collected sufficient intelligence to enable strikes on al Qaeda affiliates in Somalia, where there are no conventional U.S. forces.45 A similar strike was launched in Yemen in 2002, another country lacking U.S. conventional forces.46 Across the border from Afghanistan in Pakistan it has struck even more targets (according to one source at least thirty eight from September 2008 to March 2009) despite having no conventional presence.47
Some will protest that the Pakistanis serve as the ground presence in Pakistan, but they do not have a substantial security force (or in some cases any at all) presence in many areas where the United States has targeted al Qaeda. For example, in the militant redoubt of South Waziristan, where the United States has launched multiple drone strikes, Pakistan had no significant conventional ground force presence until October 2009.48 Others argue Somalia and Yemen are poor comparisons because they are mostly flat and on the coast, making offshore intelligence collection easy. While true, this argument stresses access, not ground force presence, which enables collection. Yet with the posture recommended in this article, the United States is assured vastly greater access than it has in either Somalia or Yemen.
In the period immediately after September 11, 2001, even with essentially no conventional ground presence in Afghanistan, small teams of U.S. intelligence and special operations forces worked with local allies to gain substantial intelligence on al Qaeda in an environment filled with hostile Taliban. A poorly executed operation at Tora Bora enabled Osama bin Laden to escape, but this was not because intelligence was unavailable. Even this failure resulted in the deaths of many al Qaeda associates and forced its leadership to flee the country.49 It seems implausible that a vastly more robust presence in Afghanistan would be significantly less capable of collecting intelligence than these small teams, or similar U.S. efforts in Somalia and Pakistan.
At best, large numbers of U.S. troops make the work of intelligence collectors easier. Their presence helps prevent militants from massing forces to attack small units and provides readily available quick reaction forces, allowing collectors to assume more risk in collection. Conventional forces also collect some intelligence organically via patrols and engagements. With a reduced force posture, collectors will have to be more circumspect and work harder. Yet as the above examples of collection in hostile environment demonstrate, this will not prevent them from operating.
Another argument against the small footprint is that U.S. ground forces in substantial numbers in Afghanistan have given the United States more leverage over Pakistan. According to this explanation, the increase in troops in Afghanistan provides the rationale for Pakistani offensive operations against militants in 2009 and also why U.S. drone targeting has been more successful in the same period. Yet the timing suggests that this change in behavior has more to do with Pakistani perceptions of the militants’ threat. Pakistani operations began when in April 2009 militants broke a ceasefire that was only a few weeks old and sought to expand their control towards the Punjabi heartland of Pakistan.50 This timing seems significant in explaining Pakistan’s offensives. In contrast, U.S. drone strikes increased in tempo beginning in late 2008, months before a decision to send more troops to Afghanistan was made.51
Even if troops do give leverage over Pakistan, how much is that leverage worth in U.S. blood and treasure? There is no sign that additional troops will cause Pakistan to stop supporting its proxies. In terms of the strategic goal of disrupting, dismantling, and defeating al Qaeda, Pakistan was aiding U.S. intelligence collection and began allowing drone strikes in June 2004 when there were less than 18,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan. Thus, it seems likely they will not simply stop it with 13,000 there.52
The final argument marshaled against this small footprint posture is that it hands al Qaeda a major propaganda victory. It could claim it drove another superpower out, that the West lacks will, and the like. There is some merit in this argument but with 13,000 U.S. military personnel in the country hunting for al Qaeda day and night, it would probably not prove to be a resounding victory.
More importantly, it is far from clear what this propaganda victory would mean in terms of the strategic goal. It would not appear to have much effect on the first two goals, as al Qaeda would continue to be disrupted and dismantled by operations in Pakistan and Afghanistan, the latter of which will remain highly unsafe for al Qaeda. It might make it harder to achieve the third goal, defeat. Yet it is this goal that is most unclear anyway. In fact, Thomas Rid and Marc Hecker argue in War 2.0 that, while it has become impossible for al Qaeda to ‘‘win’’ in any meaningful sense, its existence as a transnational social movement using various media means it cannot be totally defeated either.53
Finally, the United States has to leave Afghanistan at some point, so it is inevitable that it will make the claim to have driven the United States out. As policymakers have sought to grapple with the challenge of Afghanistan, the lessons of Vietnam have been invoked and debated by both those favoring an increase in U.S. troops and those against it.54 Yet Vietnam was not the United States only experience with irregular warfare in Southeast Asia. The U.S. experience in Laos provides a better historical analogy for U.S. strategic ends and means in Afghanistan.
In Laos, the United States supported both a weak central state and minority tribes, principally the mountain dwelling Hmong. The U.S. goal was limited, seeking both to interdict the use of Laotian territory to supply Communist forces in South Vietnam and to tie down as many North Vietnamese units as possible. Beginning in 1961 and with only a handful of CIA case officers, development workers, and Special Forces personnel, the U.S. mission worked with Hmong leader Vang Pao to create an effective guerilla force. This force had notable successes against the Communists, evolving into a force capable of holding territory when supported by U.S. airpower and small numbers of Thai ground forces. Other CIA-supported irregular units and even a few Laotian government units were also effective. In addition, the strategy was able to tie down multiple North Vietnamese divisions and ensure that the Laotian government held about as much territory in 1972 as it did in 1962.55
As with Laos, U.S. goals in Afghanistan are strictly limited and do not require a major state building enterprise. If anything, U.S. goals in Afghanistan are more limited than in Laos, as the goal in the former is to keep out at a few hundred irregular fighters while the latter sought to oppose tens of thousands of disciplined soldiers. The limited goals in Laos could be achieved with limited means, making it sustainable for more than a decade. A similar limited means strategy will likewise make U.S. strategy in Afghanistan sustainable for the long term.
To return to the point from which this analysis began—strategy is matching means and ends. If the ends desired are about al Qaeda, the counterterrorism option is the best fit in terms of means. It is sustainable, always crucial in prolonged conflict, as it limits the expenditure of U.S. blood and treasure. It is also less dependent on Pakistan choosing to abandon its proxies, a possibility that seems remote at present. The counterterrorism option is not only possible, but as Steve Simon and Jonathan Stevenson argue, it is the best alternative for the United States.



===1ac Harvard RR=== 

The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.

CONTENTION ONE IS HEG

We’re losing the war in Afghanistan – tactical gains are outweighed by strategic losses
Cohen 2/9 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “Deck Chairs on the Titanic,” 2/9/11) http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/08/deck_chairs_on_the_titanic?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full

Over the past two weeks, as the world's attention has been focused on pro-democracy demonstrations in Egypt, the tale of woe emanating from Afghanistan has only grown worse. As if right on cue, President Hamid Karzai announced at the recent security conference in Munichthat provincial reconstruction teams -- a key element of the U.S. military's counterinsurgency strategy -- are undermining his governing authority and should be winded down by 2014.
But this latest Karzai salvo is the mere tip of the iceberg. Although Gen. David Petraeus and other administration officials have tried to spin recent military gains as a reason for optimism, by President Barack Obama's own criteria for success, the United States is failing badly in Afghanistan.
Back in December 2009, when Obama announced his plans for escalation in Afghanistan, he identified three key elements of the mission: militarily breaking the Taliban's momentum and increasing Afghanistan's capacity to secure itself independently; helping the Afghan government take advantage of improved security to improve governance; and finally, forging a strong partnership between the United States and Pakistan.
On nearly all these fronts the U.S. mission is showing very little progress. The military repeatedly claims it is regaining the momentum from Taliban insurgents. And though it appears the Taliban have been weakened by an uptick in U.S. military engagement, the facts also suggest a more complicated reality. According to the well-respected Afghan NGO Safety Office (ANSO), 2010 was the most violent year of the war. The organization claims the evidence is "indisputable" that security conditions in the country are worsening. Only four provinces, according to ANSO are considered to have "low insecurity," and across Afghanistan civilian casualties are up -- as is U.S. and NATO loss of life. Indeed, there were more than 1,430 insurgent incidents in January 2011, an 80 percent increase over the same period last year.
But even if one accepts Petraeus's claims that America has "got our teeth in the enemy's jugular now," the rest of the story is more uniformly negative. Improvements in Afghanistan's security forces are sketchy at best. A new report from the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction describes a devastating tale of "poor planning" and weak management that is undermining ambitious U.S. training goals for Afghan security forces. Training of the Afghan police isn't much better. A recent survey of police mentoring in Afghanistan concluded that "corruption among the Afghan police was effectively universal," and even by NATO's own data, attrition rates for the Afghan police, though improved, are still above 50 percent.
How about the aforementioned Hamid Karzai? Here again the story is not good. Karzai finally begrudgingly agreed last month to seat the newly elected Afghan parliament -- four months after a fraud-scarred election. But he did so only after "intense pressure" from the international community. Hopes that Karzai would move "in a new direction," as Obama said at West Point, have not materialized -- and economic and political corruption, as well as poor governance, remains a fundamental part of life in Afghanistan. With Karzai's government showing such little improvement, relations between Kabul and the U.S. government have become increasingly frayed.
Across the border in Pakistan, things aren't much better. The United States has just this week suspended all high-level dialogue with Pakistan over the continued detainment of an U.S. diplomat, Raymond Davis, who is being held in violation of his diplomatic immunity by Pakistani authorities. It's indicative of the cloud of suspicion that continues to darken U.S.-Pakistan relations.
Indeed, last month there were reports that Washington plans to offer Islamabad a new set of inducements to remove the Afghan Taliban safe havens in Pakistan. But nine years of enticements from the Obama and Bush administrations have failed to convince Islamabad to abandon the Taliban as a strategic ally -- and there is little reason to believe that a new offering of American baubles and assurances will soften Pakistani intransigence.
These tales of unmet strategic objectives represent a fundamental failure of the U.S. mission in Afghanistan. Yet this has not stopped U.S. policymakers from continuing to make grandiose claims of progress.
In Obama's recent State of the Union address, he said that the fight is being "taken" to the enemy, words that dovetailed with those of his commanding general in Afghanistan, whose recent assessment to troops claimed the mission in Afghanistan is making "impressive progress" and has inflicted "enormous losses" on Taliban fighters.
The statements by Obama and Petraeus are now typical fare from the U.S. government: They offer glowing optimism about recent military gains, but make no mention of the larger strategic obstacles that imperil success in Afghanistan.
However, without tangible improvement in creating a capable and effective Afghan security force; without a competent and legitimate central government able to provide good governance to its people; without a choking-off of the supply of arms and fighters from across the border in Pakistan, the tactical gains being made by U.S. troops cannot be sustained and, quite simply, the war in Afghanistan cannot be won.
All the elements of the U.S. strategy in Afghanistan -- political, diplomatic, and military -- must be working if the effort is to be successful, not just the latter. But instead of recognizing these failures and shifting course, there is abiding resistance to any change among policymakers. Proposals to begin the process of political reconciliation with the Taliban are pushed aside because on the ground, after all, the insurgents are back on their heels. So why negotiate?

Therefore, the plan is key to demonstrate Obama’s control of his own foreign policy and restore international credibility
Andrew J. Bacevich, 10/5 Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University, 10-05-2010 (“Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439, Accessed 10-12-2010)
Andrew J. Bacevich is professor of history and international relations at Boston University. His new book is Washington Rules: America’s Path to Permanent War.

Bourne thereby identified a central truth of modern American politics: Stripped to its essence, our democracy has become an elaborate process of conferring enormous power on a single individual. What we choose to call an inauguration is more accurately a coronation. Nominally a chief executive, the president today occupies a position more akin to that of emperor, and Americans both expect much and demand much of their emperor.
To be "the most powerful man in the world" is to be simultaneously worshiped and despised. To occupy the Oval Office is to become the modern-day equivalent of a Sun King, commanding deference, while also becoming the subject of endless gossip, envy, jealousy, and intrigue, all to be reported at length and ad nauseam by Bob Woodward.
What lends this arrangement a semblance of legitimacy is the expectation that our president-monarch knows how to wield power effectively. Through the exercise of royal prerogatives, the king demonstrates his worthiness for high office.
Should a president demonstrate an absence of mastery — if he comes across as a weakling or a ditherer — profound dysfunction results. Recall the Carter era. Jimmy Carter's inability to resolve the Iran hostage crisis reduced him to a figure of contempt and left Americans with a sense that the country itself was adrift. In short order, they stripped Carter of his crown.
Yet presidential weakness — even an inkling of weakness — can have international as well as domestic implications. This is notably the case in matters related to national security. If the occupant of the Oval Office appears less than fully in command, friend and foe alike will wonder who exactly is in charge.
Confusion about American priorities and intentions can thereby result. Out of confusion can come miscalculation, as allies revise downward their estimate of American reliability and adversaries persuade themselves that they can get away with mischief. In other words, the implications of weakness extend beyond the who’s up, who’s down preoccupations of garden-variety politics. This confusion describes where we find ourselves today. There is no doubting that President Obama is smart, talented, well intentioned, and smooth as they come. Yet whether he possesses the temperament to govern is fast becoming an open question. Put simply, the question is this: Does Obama have sufficient backbone?
The release of Bob Woodward's new book Obama’s Wars has raised this question to new heights. It depicts a president who not only gets rolled but who knows when he is getting rolled and still allows it to happen. With regard to how to proceed on Afghanistan — the most important foreign policy decision to cross Obama’s desk thus far — the president last year demanded that the Pentagon present him with distinctive policy options. The king didn’t want to be handed the solution; he wanted to choose.
In fact, however, the members of his court offered him three variations of a single course of action, the one that the Pentagon itself preferred — a textbook example of how the theory of “civilian control” differs from actual practice.
Particularly disturbing is the fact that our very smart president understood exactly what was happening. Woodward shows Obama complaining loudly. Having registered that complaint, the president more or less meekly rubber-stamped the policy that the Pentagon was foisting on him. In effect, on Afghanistan he thereby forfeited to others the power to decide. Once Obama endorsed choices made by unelected subordinates, the office of commander-in-chief had acquired additional tenants.
That was back in December 2009, of course. Here in October 2010, the Pentagon's preferred plan for Afghanistan shows little sign of succeeding anytime soon. Obama's wariness about escalating the war there — now about to enter its tenth year — looks increasingly sound, which makes his complicity in going along with that escalation all the more damning.
Yet perhaps all is not lost — at least not entirely so. The president may yet have one last chance to retrieve the situation and to reverse the impression that he is less than fully in control of his administration. The next Afghanistan "milestone" is a strategic assessment promised for this coming December, one full year after Obama announced his (or the Pentagon's) Afghan surge. The military — General David Petraeus in the vanguard — will exert itself to minimize the importance of this mid-course review. So too will members of the Petraeus Lobby, currently challenging AIPAC, the trial lawyers, the pharmaceutical industry and all the rest of the powerful interest groups vying for preeminence in Washington.
You can take it to the bank: The military backed by militarists in mufti will press for more time. They will argue for postponing any serious decisions until July 2011, intending in the mean time to chip away at the president's vaguely stated promise to begin withdrawing U.S. troops from Afghanistan next summer.
If Obama wishes to salvage his presidency and demonstrate his capacity to lead and to govern, he will reject that effort. He will instead seize the opportunity presented by the mid-course review.
December is the time to render a verdict on the Afghanistan war. If the Afghan surge is still not showing clear signs of success by year's end, waiting another seven months won’t make a difference.
December also presents Obama with an opportunity — perhaps his last one — to reverse the impression that he is not fully in control of his own administration. Decisive action just might enable the president to reassure Americans and the rest of the world that he is, after all, up to the job.
Should he squander this last opportunity, however, the king is likely to find himself soon thereafter seeking new employment.

Also, perception of the Afghanistan quagmire destroys deterrence and hamstrings the military
Haass 12/20 (Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10)
http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html

To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward Afghanistan this spring, President Obama would need to cite several factors. First, the U.S. inability to eliminate the sanctuaries in Pakistan. Second, successful counterinsurgency depends on having a solid local partner. Two years of sustained investment and multiple but fraudulent elections suggest that Afghanistan's central government will not reach the point where it is considered effective or legitimate by the bulk of its own people. All this argues for adopting a policy of counterterrorism rather than state-building.
There are also broader reasons to recast policy. The greatest threat to U.S. national security stems from our own fiscal crisis. Afghanistan is a significant contributor to this situation and could play an important role in reducing it. A savings of $75 billion a year could help finance much-needed military modernization and reduce the deficit.
Another factor is the increased possibility of a conflict with a reckless North Korea and the continued possibility of a confrontation with Iran over its nuclear program. U.S. military forces must be freed up to contend with these issues. The perception that we are tied down in Afghanistan makes it more difficult to threaten North Korea or Iran credibly—and makes it more difficult to muster the forces to deal with either if necessary.
Ultimately Afghanistan is a strategic distraction. U.S. interests there are limited. So, too, are the resources available for national security. It is not surprising that the commander in the field, Gen. David Petraeus, is calling for committing greater resources to the theater. But it is the commander-in-chief's responsibility to take into account the nation's capacity to meet all of its challenges, national and international. It is for this reason that the perspectives of Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge.

Afghanistan ties down our military and trades off with other key priorities
Cordesman 12/10 (Anthony H. Cordesman, Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy, Center for Strategic and International Studies, recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal, frequently acts as a consultant to the U.S. State Department, Defense Department, and intelligence community, former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, served in numerous other government positions, including in the State Department and on NATO International Staff, “AMERICA’S WARS IN AFGHANISTAN, PAKISTAN, AND IRAQ: THE CHALLENGE OF GRAND STRATEGY, An Address to the Industrial College of the Armed Forces,” 12/10/10) http://csis.org/files/publication/101213_Iraq_and_Afghan_Talk_Edited.pdf

Reassessing Our Grand Strategic Posture in Central Asia
These same issues illustrate why we need to evaluate our grand strategic commitment to Afghanistan andPakistan in a way that makes hard choices about our future posture in Central Asia. We need to debate exactly what US goals are in all of Central Asia, and what overall level of continued US effort is really justified.
A look at the map and the region's infrastructure also makes it clear that Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia are natural Russian and Chinese spheres of influence in political, military, economic, and energy terms. If we limit our role to conventional diplomacy and military advisory roles, Russia and China will have to do what they can to bring stability and security to the region. Iran and India, and other peripheral powers will have to play a far greater role.
“Strategic neglect” is not an American strength, and neither is “strategic triage.” We cannot afford grand strategies,however, that ignore the need to make far harder choices on a global level. If the costs and risks of a major US commitment in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia remain this high, or continue to grow, this is one "Great Game" that can best be won by refusing to play it. There are simply too many complex ethnic, sectarian, tribal, and other national tensions in this region for a US to manage the end result. We have too many other interests in Asia, Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East where we already have vital strategic interests, and face problems that challenge our capabilities and resources.
Avoiding Limited Wars That Commit the Bulk of US Ground Forces and US Civil-
Military Resources to Open-Ended Armed Nation Building
More broadly, we need to consider what a near decade of conflict should shows about the way we risk making major long-term commitment of scarce US military forces and civil aid capabilities in the future, and about the need to find better ways to use our resources. It shows that we have to be far more careful about letting limited involvement escalate into “worst case wars” in one narrow part of the world.
We may not like to face the fact that we are actively involved in armed nation building, and that this can be a “worst case” form of limited war. The fact is, however, that we did escalate to this level in Iraq, we are still fighting on this level in Afghanistan, and we have a growing involvement in Pakistan.
They have tied up an immense proportion of the US defense budget, US forces, and scarce aid and development expertise in extremely high-risk commitments to a given conflict whose scale and duration cannot be predicted and run a constant risk of serious escalation and/or failure. Moreover, it is more than doubtful that the US would have escalated or engaged in any of its these wars in the way it did if their costs and risks had been properly assessed before or during the initial phase of military and stability operations. Such wars may become necessary in the future, but we need to consider the cost-benefits of this approach to making strategic commitments even when we have valid grand strategic needs, and the cost-benefits of alternative approaches. The US needs to do a far better job of considering alternative strategies and grand strategies that put far more emphasis on containment and deterrence; on reacting decisively before wars escalate to this level of requirements, and building on allies at moderate cost rather than fighting and spending in broken states.
In the process, the US also needs to be far more realistic about its severe real-world limits as a military “superpower.” The Iraq and Afghan/Pakistan wars have shown that the US now effectively has the land forces for one major regional contingency and no practical prospect of increasing them. These are the same forces that would have to help South Korea in a crisis or any other partner that required US support in a conventional war.

Expanding Taliban and European withdrawals will force additional future deployments just to avoid a loss
Dorronsoro 2010 (November, Gilles Dorronsoro, - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes, “Afghanistan at the Breaking Point,” November 2010) http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_break_point.pdf

The southern strategy presumed swift successes, which would help establish a national dynamic, but the stalemate is radically changing the situation. The coalition’s best troops will be in Helmand province and Kandahar for the next several years, which forces it to assume a defensive stance in the rest of the country. However, the opening of new fronts in the north and the Taliban’s aggressiveness in the east indicate that the insurgency could break down the Western defense system in 2011 or 2012. A relatively small number of troops—only 11,000 in the north and 8,500 in Kabul—face a growing insurgency. The European contingents, who are less war-hardened, will fi nd themselves in an unmanageable situation; increased attacks against them will force them into increasingly defensive postures. They are leaving their bases less often, giving free rein to the Taliban to organize large-scale attacks against the most isolated NATO outposts and force a retreat after years of combat, as occurred this past April in the Korengal Valley. Logistics will become increasingly complex, and more troops are dying in insurgent attacks on the main roads, including those into Pakistan.
It is therefore hard to imagine maintaining or decreasing troop strength in 2011. To the contrary, in the absence of a political process, the coalition will have to strengthen its force through one of three options: an internal reorganization, the “Afghanization” of security, or
sending in reinforcements.
Option 1: Internal reorganization Can the coalition adapt? At this stage, it is hard to be optimistic about NATO’s ability to reform itself to counter the Taliban’s progress. The coalition consistently has failed to react swiftly to known problems. It is a bureaucratic machine oriented toward its own (admittedly highly complex) management, not toward problem solving. Those in charge still defi ne success in terms of inputs (resources) and outputs (actions), not outcomes (effects). NATO logistics are a disaster, because the Taliban extort logistics companies; the coalition is thus fi nancing its enemy. In addition, private security fi rms in charge of convoy security are corrupt and often create tensions with the local population. Yet it took a U.S. Senate report (Warlords, Inc.), commissioned following a series of press articles, to offi cially raise the issue. Nothing indicates that things are changing on the ground. Western armies’ effectiveness is hampered by three types of obstacles: intellectual, human, and tactical. The war is being conceived on the basis of false theories that are not being called into question as a result of failures. The coalition continues to base its actions on a false vision of the adversary and on hypotheses that long have been debunked. The relationship between development aid and security, for example, has long been challenged. 26 Increasing aid to areas rife with violence only fuels the war economy; it does not translate into political support. The tribal policy is another example of intellectual constructions without a serious empirical basis that are reiterated nonetheless. 27 The idea of dividing the Taliban in order to co-opt smaller groups has been put forward for AFGHANISTAN AT THE BREAKING POINT 25 years, although it has never yielded results. Pakistan obviously has no desire to break off its relations with the Taliban, although U.S. policy remains based on the idea of a bargain in which it provides aid to Pakistan in exchange for action against the Taliban. Why have U.S. forces not learned from past mistakes? Part of the explanation is the use of security specialists (in terrorism and counterinsurgency) who lack knowledge of Afghan society. It is revealing, in this regard, that the civilian commission that established COIN’s principles in the summer of 2009 did not include a single Afghanistan specialist. It seems that the dominant analysis—the one heeded by the U.S. command—is essentially internal, produced as a result of stays on coalition bases. Leaders must consider the analyses of other experts, if only to avoid fi ascos as predictable as Marja. The coalition does not have the necessary human resources to implement the COIN. Coalition forces’ programs lack continuity, and personnel turn over so quickly that they have few relationships with Afghan society—or time to build them. The personnel change on average every six months, although some individuals carry out several tours of duty (not necessarily in the same place). The lack of institutional memory is a key problem in Afghanistan. There is a shortage of translators, who are often insuffi ciently trained 28 and, for security reasons, often work outside of their native region, giving rise to linguistic and cultural misunderstandings. The coalition has a limited awareness of its own history, which is why proposals that have failed many times are regularly re-presented. This lack of continuity in programs enables a proliferation of initiatives that undergo regular name changes (such as the militia programs), and whose results are never really evaluated. The coalition’s tactical repertoire is limited and predictable. Compared with similar wars, Western troops move very slowly, which CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 26 GILLES DORRONSORO rules out the element of surprise. On average, coalition soldiers carry several dozen kilos on operations. Coalition forces have never attempted helicopter operations in which troops are dropped off on ridges in order to clear the area. Troop movements take an extremely long time to prepare because of the threat of IEDs; advancing a few kilometers can often take several hours. Outside of Special Forces operations, there is no element of surprise, because the Taliban are highly skilled at reading the coalition’s movements. Patrols are largely ineffective, with coalition soldiers remaining in villages for at most a few hours. European troops have instructions to limit losses, which constrains their tactical options. Their practices are essentially defensive; for example, they cannot pursue the adversary if ambushed. European troops are focused on troop protection, not on seeking or destroying the enemy. Option 2: Afghanization Could Afghan forces signifi cantly contribute to operations? Continuing training and developing the Afghan forces remain a priority, even in the event of a political solution. However, all indications are that they will not be able to take over from Western forces, even on a local level, for a number of years, and even then solely for defensive actions. A less-than-selective recruitment process has permitted the Taliban to infi ltrate the troops 29 and refl ects the The lack of institutional memory is a key problem in Afghanistan. AFGHANISTAN AT THE BREAKING POINT 27 regime’s lack of legitimacy. Thus far, particularly in Marja, Afghan forces have played a purely symbolic role 30 ; their independent operation in Laghman province in August 2010 was a fi asco. 31 Afghan forces will not be able to withstand a Taliban advance; at best they can defend their own bases or guarantee urban centers (up to a certain point). Some commentators hope that partitioning the country could lead coalition forces to leave. The fi ght would then pit a Talibandominated south against a pro-Western north. For example, a proposal by Robert Blackwill, former U.S. ambassador to India, to divide Afghanistan is based on the idea that the Afghan state is an artifi cial construct, and Afghan territory could be divided along ethnic lines. In practice, this would suppose large-scale ethnic cleansing; hundreds of thousands of Pashtuns would probably be forced to leave the north. The Afghan army would become what it is already tending toward: a force dominated by Tajiks (notably Panjshiris) and Uzbeks. We would offer the Afghan Taliban an agreement in which neither side seeks to enlarge its territory—if the Taliban stopped supporting terrorism, a proposal that they would almost certainly reject. We would then make it clear that we would rely heavily on U.S. air power and Special Forces to target any Al Qaeda base in Afghanistan, as well as Afghan Taliban leaders who aided them. We would also target Afghan Taliban encroachments across the de facto partition lines and terrorist sanctuaries along the Pakistan border. Though careful analysis is needed, this might mean a longtime residual U.S. military force in Afghanistan of about 40,000 to 50,000 troops. We would enlist Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras and supportive Pashtuns in this endeavor, as well as our NATO allies, Russia, India, Iran, perhaps China, Central Asian nations and, one hopes, the U.N. Security Council. 32 CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 28 GILLES DORRONSORO Blackwill does not explain why the Taliban should accept such a proposal when their bases in the north are rapidly growing. Such a policy would be disastrous. Paradoxically, the insurgency would fi nd itself in the position of acting as the representative of the Afghan nation in the face of an alliance of regional and international forces that are weakening central institutions. The destabilization of Pakistan is a grave danger, because the Afghan-Pakistani border (which is not recognized by Afghanistan) would disappear, with consequences for Balochistan. Even from a Western or Indian standpoint, that situation is unfavorable: Losing control over the border areas would allow all jihadist groups to fi nd sanctuary there. Proposing Afghanistan’s partition destabilizes the country by reviving Afghan fears of manipulation by imperial powers; it strengthens mistrust of the international community. Even in a more nuanced form, proposals of “decentralization” and other forms of devolution barely conceal the desire to bypass and weaken Kabul. Such talk would have the same destabilizing effects on Afghanistan and Pakistan.
If the Taliban cannot be contained through improvements in coalition forces’ performance or by Afghanizing the war, then more troops must be sent to Afghanistan. Since strengthening the Afghan security system would take a decade in the best-case scenario, the implicit length of time for the coalition would be ten to fifteen years. Precise calculations are diffi cult, but tens of thousands of men would be required to merely contain the Taliban; many more would be required for the coalition, with heavy losses, to adopt an offensive stance and win back territory (see Figure 3).
In addition, the United States would probably have to replace the European forces, which most likely will be gone before 2015. Decisions made in Washington are placing other NATO members in increasingly diffi cult positions. The conduct of strategy has become purely American, and the risk of unilateral withdrawal by the allies is growing. European populations are increasingly opposed to the war in Afghanistan; following the Iraqi experience, it is hard for a European government to defy popular opinion for too long. Dutch troops left Afghanistan in August 2010, and Canada plans to withdraw its troops in 2011. Great Britain publicly reiterated its decision to withdraw its combat troops before 2015, Poland is envisioning 2013, and Spain is also leaning toward an early withdrawal. Opposition parties, notably in France, are challenging the consensus on the presence of their troops in Afghanistan. European governments especially—now including Great Britain—are placing implicit political conditions on loss levels. In the current circumstances— with a strategy seen as hardly credible and the political cost of leaving quickly decreasing—the only rational decision for European countries is to unilaterally set a withdrawal deadline. The departure of European troops will have to be compensated by the addition of tens of thousands of American troops. With a plurality of Americans now opposed to the war, political support for a military escalation is probably insuffi cient. 33
The argument that we cannot judge the strategy until next year is weak because, as we have seen, the strategy has changed and the operations under way in the south cannot change the national dynamic.
34
But many pundits are hoping for a reversal of the situation along the lines of what happened in post-surge Iraq. The comparison with Iraq is intellectually inconsistent, and it stands in the way of a rational policy in Afghanistan. 35
In fact, that comparison has an essentially moral and political dimension, with no analytical value as far as the effective conduct of the war is concerned. The narrative of the surge is based on the idea that at a time when most analysts believed the situation in Iraq to be desperate, the U.S. army took risks and found the solution. The surge in Afghanistan would therefore be a test of military, rather than civilian, leadership. But for the coalition, the immediate and deferred costs of waiting are so large that the political leadership must put the war in Afghanistan back into perspective compared with other national priorities. Indeed, the importance of this theater to American interests doesn’t justify the fi nancial and human burden induced by the presence of more than 100,000 U.S. troops. 

This is important. Readiness is key to deterrence because we aren’t invincible and can’t afford to be tied down
Grant 09 – Research Analyst @ Lexington Institute w/ emphasis on joint doctrine, air power, aerospace defense [Dr. Rebecca Grant (PhD in International Relations from the London School of Economics and Former lecturer at Air University and Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell Air Force Base), “Global Deterrence: The Role of F-22,” Lexington Institute, February 2009]

However, the balance may be shifting again. In the last two years, Russia, India and China have all announced or clarified major defense programs that include everything from the development of advanced fighters to upgrading aircraft carriers. Turns out, adversaries took careful note of the way America and its allies used air dominance in all its operations. They reshaped their defense plans to make inroads on that asymmetric advantage. They are building advanced missiles, aircraft and subsystems and there’s also a world market for their best wares. For all these reasons, conventional deterrence is moving up the list of jobs for America’s military. According to Mullen: A big part of credibility, of course, lies in our conventional capability. The capability to project U.S. military power globally and conduct effective theater-level operations across the domains of land, sea, air, space, cyberspace, and information – including the capability to win decisively – remains essential to deterrence effectiveness. We must therefore address our conventional force structure and its readiness as a deterrent factor, especially after 7 years at war. No one is suggesting that deterrence in this multi-polar world will be the same as the Cold War. Far from it. For one thing, America will not have the same economic dominance it once enjoyed. America’s economy will still probably be the biggest for a time, but economic and financial peers are already on the scene. Some forecast China’s economy may grow fast enough to overtake the US. With China, and other nations, military deterrence will be one part of a much wider relationship encompassing trade agreements, financial deals, diplomacy, and yes, other competition for global influence as China navigates its “peaceful rise.” Instead of spies and the Berlin Wall, the deterrence of the 21st Century will include gala state dinners, toasts with strong liquor, and a shifting series of international consortia and negotiations on everything from trade to climate change. However, low-level military friction is likely to be a constant. Russia will be active on its borders and China will continue to build global ties. Expect the spheres of influence of the major world powers to collide from time to time. THE NEW DETERRENCE METRICS Conventional deterrence will have a big role in shaping those collisions – and whether they turn out to be occasional jostling or more serious face-offs.

Overstretch risks miscalculation and war
Gordon 7 – chief military correspondent for the New York Times (Michael, Survival, Break Point? Iraq and America’s Military Forces, http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/media/e2wquwrwth0v8u1trg3h/contributions/m/7/6/7/m76738823338363h.pdf) 

A greater worry has been the operational availability of American ground forces. The army has a system for deploying the 42 new Brigade Combat Teams it is establishing as part of an ongoing programme to restructure its units. The goal is for an active brigade to spend two years at home for each year it is deployed overseas. So many units are needed for the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, however, that combat brigades are generally spending only a year at home for each year they are deployed. As one general put it, the brigades are either deployed, have just got back or are preparing to rotate back to Iraq and Afghanistan again. As a consequence, no more than a handful – perhaps as few as two or three Brigade Combat Teams – are immediately available for contingencies elsewhere. The shortage of forces has also constrained training. Since the focus is on Iraq and Afghanistan and combat troops generally spend only a year in the United States before rotating back, the army has essentially abandoned brigade- level heavy mechanised training at the National Training Center. Concerns have grown within the military establishment that the army may be raising a new group of young lieutenants and captains with little experience in high-intensity warfare against heavily equipped armies like North Korea’s. An unexpected crisis on the Korean Peninsula or another trouble-spot would likely force the army to take extraordinary measures. It could respond to the crisis by dispatching troops that had been earmarked for duty in Iraq and by simultaneously extending the deployment of troops already in Iraq well beyond the normal year-long tour of duty. Surging forces in Iraq would likely involve a similar extension of deployment tours. Such a move, however, would risk future difficulties in retaining officers in an all-volunteer force and might stretch the army to the breaking point. The Marine Corps is encountering similar strains. Of the 24 infantry battalions in the active force, nine are deployed, including three Marine Expeditionary Units. Seventy percent of the marine battalions that are deployed are located in the Central Command’s area of responsibility, meaning the Middle East and southwest Asia. The marines generally deploy for seven months instead of a year, but the strain has been similar. Marine units have generally been home only eight or nine months for each seven months they are deployed. Much of their training is geared to counter-insurgency. The marines are not training for high-intensity warfare at the battalion or higher level as much as in the past. To cope with the demands, both services anticipate greater use of the reserves. Army officials have already told Rumsfeld aides that they may be forced to make greater use of the National Guard. Following extensive use in Iraq, the National Guard set a goal of allowing five years at home between foreign deployments so as not to disrupt the family life and careers of its citizen soldiers. Greater use of the Guard would require that this goal be sacrificed. As for the marines, of the six reserve battalions, one has been deployed for almost two years and is currently off-limits. The remaining five have been deployed for about a year, and the marines sought and received authority from Rumsfeld to use them for one more year. In addition, the marines said in August 2006 that they will call back as many as 2,500 members of its Individual Ready Reserve, a pool of manpower that the marines had not tapped since 2003 and which is used to fill military specialities in times of national emergency. Such moves, however, are merely expedient measures. It is not simply a matter of enduring strain on the force. The limited number of ground troops has already had deleterious consequences. In Iraq, the limited numbers of forces have hampered American operations, delaying progress and prolonging the day when American forces might be able to go home. The 2005 operations by the Army’s Third Armored Cavalry Regiment in Tal Afar demonstrated what can be accomplished by an astute commander who is sensitive to the needs of the local population and has the necessary forces to establish control. The regiment worked with Iraqi security forces to clear Tal Afar of insurgents, to hold the town with Iraqi and American troops, then to encourage reconstruction there, an approach known as ’clear, hold, build’. The new counter-insurgency manual hailed the operation, as did Bush. But the reality is that such operations are troop intensive. ‘The units that have sufficient forces are applying the doctrine with good effect’, said one military officer who recently returned from Iraq. ’Those units without sufficient forces can only conduct raids to disrupt the enemy while protecting themselves. They can’t do enough to protect the population effectively and partner with Iraqi forces.‘8 Indeed, an instructive case history that is not included in the new counter- insurgency manual shows how efforts can be set back due to insufficient forces. To mass enough troops to retake Fallujah in the autumn of 2004 the marines drew forces from Haditha, essentially leaving the town at the mercy of the insur- gents. What followed was a devastating setback for the American effort to carry out counter-insurgency operations in the violent al-Anbar province. While the Americans were securing Fallujah the Iraqi police in Haditha were accosted by insurgents and executed. The episode left the town without a police force that could check the operations of the insurgents and taught the Iraqis there that the Americans could not be counted on to protect their nascent institutions, what- ever their good intentions. It also made the task of recruiting a new police force all but impossible. When follow-on marine units were deployed to Haditha their efforts to mount a police recruitment drive failed, forcing the marines to think about seeking police recruits from other parts of the country. Without adequate force levels, operations in al-Anbar became a strategic version of the Whac-a-Mole arcade game in which a target is struck only to appear elsewhere. When American forces massed troops to clear one area they left another area poorly protected, creating a vacuum that the insurgents eagerly filled.9 The consequences were summed up in an intelligence report that was prepared by Multinational Forces-West, the American command for the western area. Outside of islands of relative stability like Fallujah and al-Qaim, cleared in large-scale combat operations by American troops, the dominant force was not the American military or the new Iraqi government, but al-Qaeda in Mesopotamia. The report estimated that the deployment of a coalition division and a massive infusion of aid, neither of which were in the offing, were required to reverse the deteriorating security conditions.10 The risks presented by a constrained number of ground forces extend beyond Iraq. They raise the possibility that an adversary might miscalculate, projecting that it can undertake provocative actions that the United States would find it difficult to respond to. The Iraq War was intended by the Bush administration as a demonstration of American power and resolve that would serve as a cautionary lesson to nations like Iran, which is pursuing a nuclear-weapons capability, or Syria, which has supported Hizbullah. With the difficulties of the United States in Iraq, the lesson has backfired. But the limited number of forces may add to the perception that the United States is bogged down in Iraq and unable to respond adequately to other contingencies

And it causes political exhaustion, withdrawal helps our reserves
Kretkowski, 10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)

Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: I now oppose a counterinsurgency (COIN) strategy in Afghanistan and advocate a purely counterterror (CT) strategy (PDF link) there instead.
Blame history—or histories—that I've read recently, starting with Livy's works on early Rome (books I-V) last spring and Donald Kagan's The Peloponnesian War at the end of 2009. I've taken occasional dips back into Robert Kaplan's Warrior Politics and his source materials (Churchill, the Federalists, Machiavelli, Sun Tzu, and several others).
What I've taken from that reading is that the U.S. must pull back from its current efforts to remake Iraq and Afghanistan in the image of a Western democracy, or risk long-term political and economic exhaustion.
What follows is not an argument about morality, and readers may find much of it amoral. It is about making cold-blooded political and economic calculations about where U.S. national interests will lie in the next decade. They do not lie in an open-ended COIN mission.
The history of the Peloponnesian War is particularly relevant here. Athens began fighting Sparta with the resources of an empire and thousands of talents of silver in the bank—enough to fight expensive, far-flung naval and land campaigns for three years without lasting financial consequences.
Athens was rich, and if peace with Sparta had come by the end of the third year, Athens would have continued to prosper and rule over much of the Mediterranean. (Athens had a "hard"—conquered or cowed—empire as opposed to the "soft" empire of alliances and treaties the U.S. currently has.)
But the war with Sparta dragged on for decades, despite occasional peace overtures by both sides. By war's end—despite the spoils of battle and increased taxes and tribute extracted from its shrinking dominion—Athens was broke, depopulated by fighting and plague, bereft of its empire, and could no longer project power into the Mediterranean. Where its former interests ranged from Black Sea Turkey to southern Italy, it spent decades as a small-bore power and never regained its former strength or influence.
I worry that the U.S. is similarly locked into an open-ended commitment to democratize a nation that is of regional rather than global importance—a parallel to Athens convincing itself that it had to conquer distant, militarily insignificant Sicily.
"Winning" in Afghanistan
The U.S. could "win" in Afghanistan where victory is defined as a stable, legitimate central government that can project power within its own borders. I don't doubt that the U.S. and its allies could accomplish this given enough time and resources. But I think—as many COIN experts also do—that it will take at least another decade or more of blood and treasure to produce such a result, if ever.
Of course I'd like to see the results of a successful COIN campaign: a stable democracy, women's rights, and general prosperity for Afghans, who among all Asia's peoples surely deserve those things. I certainly want to end al-Qa'ida's ability to operate freely in South Asia and elsewhere.
The U.S. is the only country that would both conceive of these missions and attempt to carry them out. But goals beyond keeping al-Qa'ida on the run don't serve the long-term interests of the U.S., and I am more interested in regaining and preserving U.S. hard power than I am in the rewards that would come from "winning" a lengthy COIN war.
I fear the U.S. people and government becoming exhausted from the costs of a lengthy COIN effort, just as they are already exhausted from (and have largely forgotten about) the Iraq war. I worry that if this fatigue sits in, the U.S. will abandon foreign-policy leadership as it has done periodically throughout history.
This outcome would be worse than a resurgent Taliban, worse than Afghan women and men being further oppressed, and worse than al-Qa'ida having plentiful additional caves to plot in.
Here are some signs of an exhaustion of U.S. power: The U.S. is already overextended, with commitments in Iraq (shrinking for now), Afghanistan (expanding), Yemen (pending) and Iran (TBD). At home, the U.S. economy remains feeble and in the long term is increasingly hostage to other nations for goods and services it no longer produces (and increasingly, no longer can produce).
Even more worrisome is the U.S. credit situation. The wars, and much other U.S. government spending, are now heavily underwritten by other countries' purchases of debt the U.S. issues. It has borrowed trillions from foreign countries and especially China, which continues its steady, highly rational policy of promoting exports while freeriding under the American security umbrella (just as the U.S. once rode for free beneath Britain's).
Over time, those countries accrue enough debt to have a say in U.S. policies that may threaten the dollar's value, which is why you now see high U.S. officials flying to Beijing to soothe PRC nerves and explain why America keeps borrowing money.
At home, there are few resources to apply following a major disaster, such as a Katrina-style hurricane or a major earthquake.
The U.S. needs to start rebuilding its reserves—of capital, of credit, of political goodwill abroad, of military force—to be ready for these and more serious crises, for which we currently have few resources to spare. Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis); Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).

We’re not invincible – the plan is key to husband American power and stave off disastrous apolarity
Robert Kaplan 12/5, Center for a New American Security senior fellow, The Atlantic Correspondent, 12/5/2010, "A world with no one in charge," http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/03/AR2010120306537.html, 12/6/2010

Currency wars. Terrorist attacks. Military conflicts. Rogue regimes pursuing nuclear weapons. Collapsing states. And now, massive leaks of secret documents. What is the cause of such turbulence? The absence of empire.
During the Cold War, the world was divided between the Soviet and U.S. imperial systems. The Soviet imperium - heir to Kievan Rus, medieval Muscovy and the Romanov dynasty - covered Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia and propped up regimes in Africa, the Middle East and Latin America. The American imperium - heir to maritime Venice and Great Britain - also propped up allies, particularly in Western Europe and East Asia. True to the garrison tradition of imperial Rome, Washington kept bases in West Germany, Turkey, South Korea and Japan, virtually surrounding the Soviet Union.
The breakup of the Soviet empire, though it caused euphoria in the West and led to freedom in Central Europe, also sparked ethnic conflicts in the Balkans and the Caucasus that cost hundreds of thousands of lives and created millions of refugees. (In Tajikistan alone, more than 50,000 people were killed in a civil war that barely registered in the U.S. media in the 1990s.)
The Soviet collapse also unleashed economic and social chaos in Russia itself, as well as the further unmooring of the Middle East. It was no accident that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait less than a year after the Berlin Wall fell, just as it is inconceivable that the United States would have invaded Iraq if the Soviet Union, a staunch patron of Baghdad, still existed in 2003. And had the Soviet empire not fallen apart or ignominiously withdrawn from Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden never would have taken refuge there and the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, might not have happened. Such are the wages of imperial collapse.
Now the other pillar of the relative peace of the Cold War, the United States, is slipping, while new powers such as China and India remain unready and unwilling to fill the void. There will be no sudden breakdown on our part, as the United States, unlike the Soviet Union, is sturdily maintained by economic and political freedom. Rather, America's ability to bring a modicum of order to the world is simply fading in slow motion.
The days of the U.S. dollar as the world's reserve currency are numbered, just as our diplomacy is hobbled by wide-ranging security leaks that are specific to an age of electronic communication, itself hostile to imperial rule.
Then there is America's military power. Armies win wars, but in an age when the theater of conflict is global, navies and air forces are more accurate registers of national might. (Any attack on Iran, for example, would be a sea and air campaign.) The U.S. Navy has gone from nearly 600 warships in the Reagan era to fewer than 300 today, while the navies of China and India grow apace. Such trends will accelerate with the defense cuts that are surely coming in order to rescue America from its fiscal crisis. The United States still dominates the seas and the air and will do so for years ahead, but the distance between it and other nations is narrowing.
Terrorist acts, ethnic atrocities, the yearning after horrible weaponry and the disclosure of secret cables are the work of individuals who cannot escape their own moral responsibility. But the headlines of our era are written in a specific context - that of one deceased empire that used to be the world's preeminent land power and of another, the world's preeminent sea power, that finds itself less able to affect events than ever before, even as it is less sure than ever of the cause toward which it struggles.
This is no indictment of President Obama's foreign policy. There is slim evidence of a credible alternative to his actions on North Korea, Iran and Iraq, while a feisty debate goes on over the proper course in Afghanistan. But there is simply no doubt that the post-imperial order we inhabit allows for greater disruptions than the Cold War ever permitted.
Husbanding our power in an effort to slow America's decline in a post-Iraq and post-Afghanistan world would mean avoiding debilitating land entanglements and focusing instead on being more of an offshore balancer: that is, lurking with our air and sea forces over the horizon, intervening only when outrages are committed that unquestionably threaten our allies and world order in general. While this may be in America's interest, the very signaling of such an aloof intention may encourage regional bullies, given that rogue regimes are the organizing principles for some pivotal parts of the world.
North Korea already plows onward with its nuclear weapons program, even as it lobs artillery shells on a South Korean island, demonstrating the limits of both U.S. and Chinese power in a semi-anarchic world. During the Cold War, North Korea was kept in its box by the Soviet Union while the U.S. Navy dominated the Pacific as though it were an American lake. Now China's economic dominance of the region, coupled with our distracting land wars in the Middle East, is transforming the western Pacific from a benign and stable environment to a more uncertain and complex one.
China's navy is decades behind America's, but that should offer little consolation. The United States, having just experienced asymmetric warfare on land, should now expect asymmetric challenges at sea. With its improving mine-warfare capability, seabed sonar networks and cyber-warfare in the service of anti-ship ballistic missiles, not to mention its diesel-electric and nuclear submarines, China will make U.S. Navy operations more dangerous over the coming years.
As for Taiwan, China has 1,500 short-range ballistic missiles pointed at the island, even as hundreds of commercial flights each week link Taiwan with the mainland in peaceful commerce. When China effectively incorporates Taiwan in the years to come, that will signal the arrival of a truly multipolar and less predictable military environment in East Asia.
In the Middle East we see the real collapse of the Cold War imperial order. The neat Israeli-Arab dichotomy that mirrored the American-Soviet one has been replaced by a less stable power arrangement, with a zone of Iranian influence stretching from Lebanon to western Afghanistan, pitted against both Israel and the Sunni Arab world, and with a newly Islamic, and no longer pro-Western, Turkey rising as a balancing power.
Yes, empires impose order, but that order is not necessarily benevolent, as Iran's budding imperial domain shows. U.S. threats against Iran lack credibility precisely because of our imperial fatigue resulting from Iraq and Afghanistan. Out of self-interest we will probably not involve ourselves in another war in the Middle East - even as that very self-interest could consign the region to a nuclear standoff.
One standard narrative is that as we recede, China will step up as part of a benign post-American world. But this presupposes that all imperial powers are the same, even when history clearly demonstrates that they are not. Nor does one empire sequentially fill the gap left by another.
While the Soviet Union and the United States were both missionary powers motivated by ideals - communism and liberal democracy - through which they might order the world, China has no such grand conception. It is driven abroad by the hunger for natural resources (hydrocarbons, minerals and metals) that it requires to raise hundreds of millions of its citizens into the middle class.
This could abet the development of a trading system between the Indian Ocean, Africa and Central Asia that might maintain peace with minimal American involvement. But who is to fill the moral void? Does China really care if Tehran develops nuclear weapons, so long as it has access to Iran's natural gas? And Beijing may not be entirely comfortable with the North Korean regime, which keeps its population in a state of freeze-frame semi-starvation, but China props it up nevertheless.
It can be argued that with power comes moral responsibility, but it will probably be decades before China has the kind of navy and air force that would lead it to become an authentic partner in an international security system. For the moment, Beijing gets a free ride off the protection of the world's sea lanes that the U.S. Navy helps provide, and watches us struggle to stabilize Afghanistan and Pakistan so that China can one day extract their natural resources.
If the Cold War was an epoch of relative stability, guaranteed by a tacit understanding among empires, we now have one waning empire, that of the United States, trying to bring order amid a world of rising and sometimes hostile powers.
Looming over all of this is the densely crowded global map. Across Eurasia, rural populations have given way to megacities prone to incitement by mass media and to destruction by environmental catastrophe. Lumbering, hard-to-deploy armies are being replaced with overlapping ballistic missile ranges that demonstrate the delivery capabilities of weapons of mass destruction. New technologies make everything affect everything else at a faster and more lethal rate than ever before. The free flow of information, as the WikiLeaks scandal makes clear, and the miniaturization of weaponry, as the terrorist bombings in Pakistani cities make clear, work against the rise and sustenance of imperial orders.
The American empire has always been more structural than spiritual. Its network of alliances certainly resembles those of empires past, and the challenges facing its troops abroad are comparable to those of imperial forces of yore, though the American public, especially after the debacles in Iraq and Afghanistan, is in no mood for any more of the land-centric adventures that have been the stuff of imperialism since antiquity.
Americans rightly lack an imperial mentality. But lessening our engagement with the world would have devastating consequences for humanity. The disruptions we witness today are but a taste of what is to come should our country flinch from its international responsibilities.

Heg decline causes great power war – primacy sustains peace
Zhang and Shi, 1/22/11 – Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/) 

This does not necessarily mean that the US is in systemic decline, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, as the hegemony that drew these powers together withers, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. The result will be an international order where power is more diffuse, American interests and influence can be more readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline and redistribution result in military confrontation. For example, in the late 19th century America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and some degree of equal opportunities for broad segments of society. As a result of such political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared. And, with this, many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of the 1930s: regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry. Furthermore, multilateral institutions such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO might give way to regional organisations. For example, Europe and East Asia would each step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and major powers would compete for supremacy. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). A world without American hegemony is one where great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy.

CONTENTION TWO IS DIPLOMACY

Afghanistan prevents a reorientation of US policy on actual crisis
Haass 12/13 (Richard N. Haass, President of the Council on Foreign Relations, Director of Policy Planning in the US State Department, “The Endgames in Iraq and Afghanistan,” 12/13/10) http://www.cfr.org/publication/23619/endgames_in_iraq_and_afghanistan.html

Troop reductions in Iraq and Afghanistan will also allow the US military to begin to recover from these two conflicts. Neither soldiers nor equipment can sustain the performance that has been demanded of them. Recruitment and retention of highly skilled individuals in the US armed forces will increase as the level of effort in the two conflicts winds down, and a great deal of deferred military modernization will occur.
More fundamentally, reducing US involvement in Iraq and Afghanistan will permit a rebalancing of US foreign and defense policy. The two conflicts have absorbed a disproportionate share of the country's resources – military and economic to be sure, but also the time and attention of policymakers and diplomats.
In the short run, doing less in Iraq and Afghanistan will allow the US to concentrate on the two most immediate external threats to US interests: Iran and North Korea. In the long run, the US needs to generate domestic and international support for regional and global arrangements designed to manage the defining problems of this era, from the spread of nuclear materials and terrorism to maintaining an open world economy and slowing climate change. This will require a foreign policy that focuses on the emerging powers of the twenty-first century, many of which are in Asia.
The US largely squandered the opportunity to shape the international system in the first decade of the new century. Iraq and Afghanistan proved to be strategic distractions, and, particularly in Afghanistan, the US should resist pressures to prolong a substantial military presence.
There is now an opportunity to reorient American foreign policy to concentrate on what matters most. It is in the interest of the US and the world that this opportunity not be missed.

COIN specifically shreds foreign policy coherence—especially resources for diplomacy and climate change
Cohen 09 (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html)

Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to that tumultuous nation will likely wreak havoc on Obama's broader first-term foreign policy agenda - consuming resources, sucking up time and attention, and ultimately subverting his larger foreign policy goals.
In August, National Intelligence Council Chairman John Brennan declared that under Obama, "the fight against terrorists and violent extremists has been returned to its right and proper place: no longer defining - indeed, distorting - our entire national security and foreign policy, but rather serving as a vital part of those larger policies."
But the military commitment endorsed by President Obama would have the reverse effect - officially making stabilization in Afghanistan and the war against Al Qaeda and the Taliban the President's top priority.
For example, one of the most serious challenges facing the country's national security bureaucracy - one Obama and Secretary of State Clinton have expressed serious concern about in the past - is the skewed balance between resources for our military and civilian agencies. Nearly everyone in the foreign policy community agrees that both State and the U.S. Agency for International Development are badly under-resourced.
But with Obama's likely troop increase in Afghanistan, agencies like the State Department and USAID will see their dwindling capacity devoted to assisting the military as opposed to the long-term diplomacy and development work that can further U.S. interests in places not named Afghanistan or Pakistan. The civilian-military balance will only become further skewed.
And if the administration requests $100 billion a year for the war in Afghanistan, in the face of looming budget deficits, what are the chances Congress will loosen its purse strings further for two underappreciated foreign policy agencies?
Finally, Obama and his advisers will be pressed in devoting their attention and political capital to other foreign policy matters, whether it's pushing for a solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, organizing an international coalition to confront the Iranian nuclear program or hammering out international agreements on climate change and trade. It's never easy for Presidents and their advisers to proverbially "walk and chew gum at the same time," and having 100,000 troops in Afghanistan will make it that much harder.
But above all, Obama's goal of changing America's mind-set from the belief that there is a military solution to every national 
security challenge will be dealt a defining and perhaps fatal blow - and in the end, that is probably the most important reason why troop levels in Afghanistan matter and why the President should think twice. The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President.
As he prepares to announce a decision that will define his presidency, Obama would be wise to consider the words of one of his predecessors in the Oval Office, Lyndon Johnson, who after leaving office told a biographer, "History provided too many cases where the sound of the bugle put an immediate end to the hopes and dreams of the best reformers." No doubt Obama knows what ultimately happened to Johnson's policy agenda - and his presidency.

Effective diplomacy is key to stop warming
Hague 10 (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10)

But I particularly wanted to make the point to this audience and to circulate to a wider audience certain points about climate change this morning, which is perhaps the 21st century's biggest foreign- policy challenge, along with preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. I believe those two threats over the longer term are the biggest threats to the peace and security of the world.
A world that is failing to respond to climate change is one in which the values embodied in the United Nations will not be met, and it's a world in which competition and conflict would win out over collaboration.
We're at a very crucial point in the global debate on this subject. Many people are questioning, in the wake of Copenhagen, whether we should continue to seek a response to climate change through the U.N. and whether we can ever hope to deal with this enormous challenge.
And I will first argue today that an effective response to climate change underpins our security and prosperity; second, that our response should be to strive for a binding global deal, whatever the setbacks; and third, I will set out why effective deployment of foreign policy assets is crucial to mobilizing the political will needed if we're going to shape an effective response.
Now, Ban Ki-moon is right to have made climate change his top priority. Two weeks ago, I was talking about Britain's values in a networked world. I said then that a successful response to climate change must be a central objective of British foreign policy. And I said this not only because I believe action against climate change is in line with a values-based foreign policy, but because it underpins our prosperity and security.
You can't have food, water or energy security without climate security; they are interconnected and inseparable. They form four resource pillars on which global security, prosperity and equity stand. Each depends on the other. Plentiful, affordable food requires reliable and affordable access to water and energy. Increasing dependence on coal, oil and gas threatens climate security, increasing the severity of floods and droughts, damaging food production, exacerbating the loss of biodiversity, and in countries that rely on hydropower, undermining energy security through the impact on the availability of water.
As the world becomes more networked, the impact of climate change in one country or region will affect the prosperity and security of others around the world.
No one can have failed to be appalled by the devastating floods in Pakistan. They overwhelmed the capacity of government to respond and opened political space for extremists. While Pakistan has borne the brunt of the human impact, China too has been hit on a vast scale by a seemingly endless sequence of droughts, floods and deadly mudslides. The Russian drought last month damaged the wheat harvest, leading to an export ban. World prices surged, hitting the poorest hardest, and sparking riots over bread prices in far away Mozambique.
While no one weather event can ever be linked with certainty to climate change, the broad patterns of abnormality seen this year are consistent with climate-change models. They provide an illustration of the events we will be encountering increasingly in the future.
So the clock is ticking, and the time to act is now. We must all take responsibility for this threat and take robust action. But we must also be clear-headed about the difficulties of reaching agreement and not lose heart when the going gets tough.
The post-war leaders set up the United Nations in the aftermath of conflagration. They saw the pressing need for global solutions to global problems: cooperation not conflict, through frameworks and institutions embedded in the rule of law, and an international system that is fair and offers everyone a realistic prospect of security and prosperity.
Failure to respond to climate change is inimical to all these values, undermining trust between nations, intensifying competition for resources, and shrinking the political space available for cooperation. It is an affront to fairness, since it puts the greatest burden on those who have done least to cause the problem and are least able to deal with its consequences.
It is incompatible with the values and aspirations that the U.N. embodies. And it's incompatible with the values and aspirations of British foreign policy.
For more than 20 years, we've been striving to build an effective international response to climate change. But we have lacked the collective ambition required. We need to shift investment urgently from high-carbon "business as usual" to the low-carbon economy. This means building an essentially decarbonized global economy by mid- century.
At the same time, we must ensure development is climate resilient; otherwise, the changes in climate that are already unavoidable will block the path for hundreds of millions of people from poverty to prosperity. These changes also threaten to sweep away the investments in development we have made, and just as the bridges and schools in Pakistan were swept away.
To drive that shift in investment from low to high carbon, we need a global climate change deal under the United Nations.
Now, some have argued that we should abandon hope of doing so. They say Copenhagen proved it's all too difficult; we should focus instead on less inclusive and less demanding responses, such as coalitions of the willing. But we believe this would be a strategic error. It mistakes the nature of the task, which is to expand the realm of the possible, not to lower our ambition by accepting its current limits.
And we must recognize this at Cancun. One thing Copenhagen did give us was a set of political commitments, captured in the Copenhagen Accord, on which we can build. More than 120 countries have now associated themselves with that accord, and that represents a broad and growing consensus. We now need to ensure that we live up to the commitments we made to each other in the accord, and reach out even more widely.
Copenhagen, despite those accords, was a strategic setback, but it was not by any means the end of the road. We need to be clear why it failed to live up to high expectations and why it did not deliver a legally binding deal.
Many people say that it failed because of process: The diplomats and the politicians had created a negotiation that was too difficult and too complex. But this misses the point. International treaties are an outcome, not an input, of political bargains. If you've made the political commitment to deliver, you can make the process work to deliver.
The real reason Copenhagen did not deliver on high expectations was a lack of political will. Many in developing countries saw a gap between the words and the deeds of the industrialized economies. They questioned whether we really believed our own rhetoric. And to answer those questions, we each need to start at home.
That is why the coalition government to which I belong has committed itself to being the greenest government ever in the United Kingdom, and why, with others in Europe, we are calling on the European Union to commit to a 30-percent cut in emissions by 2020 without waiting for the rest of the world to act.
The UK is already the world leader in offshore wind, with more projects installed, in planning and in construction than any other country in the world. We're undertaking the most radical transformation of our electricity sector ever. We aim to provide over 30 percent of our domestic electricity from renewables by 2020. We have committed to build no new coal-fired power stations without carbon capture and storage technology, and we've announced our intention to continue the demonstration projects of that.
And because it's imperative that foreign and domestic policies are mutually reinforcing, we must ensure that our approach is coherent. Now, that's one reason we have established the new British National Security Council: to ensure this happens across the full range of issues, including climate change.
And that's why I work hand in glove with Chris Huhne, the British Energy and Climate Change secretary, and Andrew Mitchell, the International Development secretary, to ensure that our domestic action reflects our level of international ambition.
But we won't succeed, of course, if we act alone. We must aim for a framework that is global and binding. It needs to be global because climate change affects everyone. Only a response that allows everyone a voice will generate a sense of common purpose and legitimacy. Only a response that is binding will convince investors that we intend to keep the promises we make to each other. Businesses need clear political signals, so let's show them an unequivocal green light.
We are now a few weeks away from the 16th Conference of Parties on Climate Change in Cancun. And I commend the consultative and collaborative approach Mexico has taken ahead of this meeting. Thanks to their determination and foresight, we have a chance in Cancun to regain momentum and make progress on key issues such as forests, technology, finance and transparency of commitments. Cancun will -- may not get us all the way to a full agreement, but it can put us back on track to one.
That said, the negotiations can't succeed inside a bubble. The negotiators in the U.N. process can't themselves build political will. They have to operate on the basis of current political realities in the countries they represent. And it's those realities that limit the ambition that we can set in the -- in such negotiations, and it's those realities that we now need to shift.
There is no global consensus on what climate change puts at risk, geopolitically and for the global economy, and thus on the scale and urgency of the response we need. We must build a global consensus if we are to guarantee our citizens security and prosperity. That is a job for foreign policy.
A fundamental purpose here for foreign policy is to shift the political debate, to create the political space for leaders and negotiators to reach agreement. We didn't get that right before Copenhagen, and we must get it right now.
So we urgently need to mobilize foreign ministers and the diplomats they lead, as well as institutions such as the Council on Foreign Relations, to put climate change at the heart of foreign- policy thinking.
When I became foreign secretary in May, I said the core goals of our foreign policy were to guarantee Britain's security and prosperity. Robust global action on climate change is essential to that agenda. That is why the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, under my leadership, is a vocal advocate for climate diplomacy. All British ambassadors carry the argument for a global low-carbon transition in their breast pocket or in their handbag. Climate change is part of their daily vocabulary, alongside the traditional themes of foreign policy. And they're supported by our unique network of climate attaches throughout the world.
The core assets of foreign policy are its networks and its convening power. Foreign policy can build political impulses to overcome barriers between sectors and cultures. In a networked world, diplomacy builds partnerships beyond government. And nowhere are those partnerships more vital than on climate.
So we must mobilize all our networks, not just across government but between governments, using organizations such as the Commonwealth as well. We must reach out, beyond, to NGOs, faith groups and businesses. And of all these, perhaps business engagement is the key to making a difference. It's business that will lead low-carbon transition. It's business that best understands the incentives needed to help us all prosper.
We must also harness scientific expertise in cutting-edge low- carbon technologies. The scientific community will develop the goods which will power the low-carbon economy and drive global ambition on climate change. And that's why the British government has a science and innovation network, which fosters collaborative research in the U.K. and other countries.
Now, what can the U.K. and the European Union do to make that fundamental shift and shape a global consensus on climate change? The most serious problem at Copenhagen, and the strongest brake on political will, was and is a lack of confidence in the low-carbon economy. Too few people in too few countries are yet convinced that a rapid move to low carbon is compatible with economic recovery and growth. They see the short-term economic and domestic stability risks before the opportunities and the longer-term risks of inaction.
There should be only one European response to that confidence gap. The EU, in my view, must accelerate its own progress and demonstrate that a low-carbon growth path makes us more competitive. I am convinced this is in the long-term interests of Europe's economy. We have learned painful lessons from the oil price shocks. We must modernize our infrastructure. The opportunities are out there. The global industry in low-carbon and environmental goods and services is already estimated to be worth up to 3.2 trillion pounds a year. Nearly a million British people are now employed in this sector, and that's why we are creating a green investment bank to ensure that we can properly support and develop low-carbon industry.
But we need to redouble our efforts, both in the EU (itself ?) and in our engagement with partners. Each of us as member states will be better able to accelerate if we're doing so together as the world's largest single market. And by opening up this effort through partnership with others, we can make it easier for them to accelerate, too.
So we'll be at the forefront of pushing for low-carbon modernization of Europe's infrastructure and energy policy. The European Union's budget until 2013 is set out in the current "financial perspective".
We will argue -- we will need to agree the financial perspective for the seven years after that, the period including our 2020 climate goals. And it's -- as ever, it's right that the EU budget should reflect the prevailing economic circumstances. It's also right that we direct the budget to today's challenges, not those of yesterday. And that means one that supports the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Action in Europe alone will not be enough. We need both the developed and developing world to take action. And this week Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, and I have tasked our teams to come together to shape a coordinated, diplomacy-led effort on climate change, combining the strengths of our respective foreign services.
I've just put the case for bringing a new urgency for low-carbon transition within the EU. But together we should carry that urgency in external dialogues, whether they are with the United States, China or India.
The transition to low carbon will happen faster and maximize the benefit for all if the United States -- historically the world's largest emitter -- is at the leading edge. I recognize the political challenges that the U.S. administration faces and welcome President Obama's commitment to combat climate change. As he said in his State of the Union speech, "the nation that leads the clean-energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy."
Whatever the outcome of the upcoming midterm elections in the U.S., there is scope for political unity around an economic agenda that targets new energy opportunities and new jobs. American business understands this new market and should want to lead it. But to make these new clean-energy investments at the required pace and on a sufficient scale, they need the right incentives.
On climate, as in so many areas, the world looks to the US for leadership, because it has the economic clout and diplomatic leverage to shift the global debate.
And I look forward to working with the U.S. administration and indeed with the Council on Foreign Relations to raise global ambitions and put us back on the path to sustainable growth.
A key challenge for Europe is to build an economic partnership with China that reinforces the steps China is taking towards a low- carbon economy. These steps include its recent announcement of the five provinces and eight cities that have been designated as China's low-carbon pilots. Together these pilots cover 350 million people, so an ambitious approach to these schemes, tenaciously implemented, could provide a critical boost to global confidence in the concept of low- carbon development and help put China on the path to sustainable prosperity.
It could also produce huge two-way investment and partnership opportunities. Europe should place itself at the heart of these, working with China to maximize the ambition and the opportunities and to build the shared technology standards that will shape a global low- carbon market.
In China's case, low-carbon opportunity is matched by urgent low- carbon need. The pace of growth in China means average Chinese per- capita emissions could soon eclipse those of Europe. So while China has taken some very welcome steps, without a commitment from China to further decisive action, the efforts of others will be in vain.
The emerging economies face a dilemma. Often they are the most vulnerable to the direct effects of climate change. But they are concerned that action against climate change will adversely affect their development. The challenge to all countries is to have a high- growth, low-carbon economy. Some, like Brazil, which derives nearly half its energy from clean and renewable resources, are rising to that challenge.
India is another, embodying in microcosm the challenge that climate change poses to us all. Threatened by food, water and energy insecurity, India has responded with ambitious plans to generate 20 gigawatts of solar power by 2022.
South Africa, a coal-dependent economy, the success of which is so important to growth and prosperity within the continent, has made a significant offer to deviate their emissions from the business-as- usual pathway.
The opportunity is for the emerging economies -- for the emerging economies is to make a direct leap to low carbon, avoiding the high- carbon lock-in that we see in the developed world: a new, sustainable pathway for prosperity and security. A global low-carbon economy is not an idealist's pipe dream but a 21st-century realist's imperative. Countries that adapt quickly to a carbon-constrained world will be better able to deliver lasting prosperity for their citizens. As a Permanent Security Council member, I'm determined that the U.K. will play its full part in that, not least by supporting climate finance for the poorest.
Collectively, we share a responsibility to those most vulnerable to the impact of climate change. Bangladesh, with its densely populated coastal region, is particularly susceptible to rising sea levels. Glacial melt, sea-level rises and El Nino-type events threaten the lives of millions across South America. And the very existence of many small island states is under threat.
We have a shared vision to meet the Millennium Development Goals. But in a world without action on climate change, that vision will remain a dream, and the efforts of the last 10 years would
So climate change is one of the gravest threats to our security and prosperity. Unless we take robust and timely action to deal with it, no country will be immune to its effects. However difficult it might seem now, a global deal under the U.N. is the only response to this threat which will create the necessary confidence to drive a low- carbon transition.
We must be undaunted by the scale of the challenge.
We must continue to strive for agreement. We must not accept that because there is no consensus on a way forward now, that there never will be one. And to change the debate, we must imaginatively deploy all of the foreign policy assets in our armory until we've shaped that global consensus.
A successful response to climate change will not only stabilize the climate, but open the way to a future in which we can meet our needs through cooperation, in accordance with the ideals of the United Nations. Failure to do so will enhance competitive tendencies and make the world more dangerous, so this is not actually a hard choice.
We have to get this right. If we do, we can still shape our world. And if we don't, the world will determine our destiny for us.

Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction
Sify 2010 – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html, WEA)

The findings of the comprehensive report: 'The impact of climate change on the world's marine ecosystems' emerged from a synthesis of recent research on the world's oceans, carried out by two of the world's leading marine scientists.
One of the authors of the report is Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at The University of Queensland and the director of its Global Change Institute (GCI).
'We may see sudden, unexpected changes that have serious ramifications for the overall well-being of humans, including the capacity of the planet to support people. This is further evidence that we are well on the way to the next great extinction event,' says Hoegh-Guldberg.
'The findings have enormous implications for mankind, particularly if the trend continues. The earth's ocean, which produces half of the oxygen we breathe and absorbs 30 per cent of human-generated carbon dioxide, is equivalent to its heart and lungs. This study shows worrying signs of ill-health. It's as if the earth has been smoking two packs of cigarettes a day!,' he added.
'We are entering a period in which the ocean services upon which humanity depends are undergoing massive change and in some cases beginning to fail', he added.
The 'fundamental and comprehensive' changes to marine life identified in the report include rapidly warming and acidifying oceans, changes in water circulation and expansion of dead zones within the ocean depths.
These are driving major changes in marine ecosystems: less abundant coral reefs, sea grasses and mangroves (important fish nurseries); fewer, smaller fish; a breakdown in food chains; changes in the distribution of marine life; and more frequent diseases and pests among marine organisms.
Study co-author John F Bruno, associate professor in marine science at The University of North Carolina, says greenhouse gas emissions are modifying many physical and geochemical aspects of the planet's oceans, in ways 'unprecedented in nearly a million years'.
'This is causing fundamental and comprehensive changes to the way marine ecosystems function,' Bruno warned, according to a GCI release.
These findings were published in Science

Second is prolif and global stability—cooperation ensures new weapons states and rising powers are stable—the impact is nuke war
Dyer, 04 – worked as a freelance journalist, columnist, broadcaster and lecturer on international affairs for more than 20 years, but he was originally trained as an historian. Born in Newfoundland, he received degrees from Canadian, American and British universities, finishing with a Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History from the University of London. [Gwynne, "The end of war," Toronto Star, 12/30, l/n]

War is deeply embedded in our history and our culture, probably since before we were even fully human, but weaning ourselves away from it should not be a bigger mountain to climb than some of the other changes we have already made in the way we live, given the right incentives. And we have certainly been given the right incentives: The holiday from history that we have enjoyed since the early '90s may be drawing to an end, and another great-power war, fought next time with nuclear weapons, may be lurking in our future..
The "firebreak" against nuclear weapons use that we began building after Hiroshima and Nagasaki has held for well over half a century now. But the proliferation of nuclear weapons to new powers is a major challenge to the stability of the system. So are the coming crises, mostly environmental in origin, which will hit some countries much harder than others, and may drive some to desperation.
Add in the huge impending shifts in the great-power system as China and India grow to rival the United States in GDP over the next 30 or 40 years and it will be hard to keep things from spinning out of control. With good luck and good management, we may be able to ride out the next half-century without the first-magnitude catastrophe of a global nuclear war, but the potential certainly exists for a major die-back of human population.
We cannot command the good luck, but good management is something we can choose to provide. It depends, above all, on preserving and extending the multilateral system that we have been building since the end of World War II. The rising powers must be absorbed into a system that emphasizes co-operation and makes room for them, rather than one that deals in confrontation and raw military power. If they are obliged to play the traditional great-power game of winners and losers, then history will repeat itself and everybody loses.
Our hopes for mitigating the severity of the coming environmental crises also depend on early and concerted global action of a sort that can only happen in a basically co-operative international system. 
When the great powers are locked into a military confrontation, there is simply not enough spare attention, let alone enough trust, to make deals on those issues, so the highest priority at the moment is to keep the multilateral approach alive and avoid a drift back into alliance systems and arms races. And there is no point in dreaming that we can leap straight into some never-land of universal brotherhood; we will have to confront these challenges and solve the problem of war within the context of the existing state system.

CONTENTION THREE IS SOLVENCY

Shift to CT solves – no risk of Taliban takeover or terrorism
ASG 8/16 —The Afghanistan Study Group, an ad hoc group of public policy practitioners, former U.S. government officials, academics, business representatives, policy-concerned activists and association leaders concerned with the Obama administration’s policy course in Afghanistan, 8/16/10, (“What’s Wrong With The Current U.S Strategy,” A New Way Forward: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”) http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/2010/08/13/the-way-fo-rward-a-five-point-approach/

Second, a U.S. drawdown would not make Al Qaeda substantially more lethal. In order for events in Afghanistan to enhance Al Qaeda’s ability to threaten the U.S. homeland, three separate steps must occur: 1) the Taliban must seize control of a substantial portion of the country, 2) Al Qaeda must relocate there in strength, and 3) it must build facilities in this new “safe haven” that will allow it to plan and train more effectively than it can today.
Each of these three steps is unlikely, however, and the chances of all three together are very remote. For starters, a Taliban victory is unlikely even if the United States reduces its military commitment. The Taliban is a rural insurgency rooted primarily in Afghanistan’s Pashtun population, and its seizure of power in the 1990s was due to unusual circumstances that no longer exist and are unlikely to be repeated. Non-Pashtun Afghans now have ample experience with Taliban rule, and they are bound to resist any Taliban efforts to regain control in Kabul. Moreover, the U.S. military presence has helped the Taliban rally its forces, meaning that the group may well fragment and suffer a loss of momentum in the face of a U.S. drawdown. Surveys suggest that popular support for the Taliban among Afghans is in the single digits.
Even with significantly reduced troop levels, we can build a credible defense against a Taliban takeover through support for local security forces, strategic use of airpower, and deployment in key cities without committing ourselves to a costly and counterproductive COIN (counterinsurgency) campaign in the south. And if power-sharing and political inclusion is negotiated, the relevance of the Taliban as an alternative to Kabul is likely to decline.
And even if the Taliban were to regain power in some of Afghanistan, it would likely not invite Al Qaeda to re-establish a significant presence there. The Taliban may be reluctant to risk renewed U.S. attacks by welcoming Al Qaeda onto Afghan soil. Bin Laden and his associates may well prefer to remain in Pakistan, which is both safer and a better base from which to operate than isolated and land-locked Afghanistan.
Most importantly, no matter what happens in Afghanistan in the future, Al Qaeda will not be able to build large training camps of the sort it employed prior to the 9/11 attacks. Simply put, the U.S. would remain vigilant and could use air power to eliminate any Al Qaeda facility that the group might attempt to establish. Bin Laden and his associates will likely have to remain in hiding for the rest of their lives, which means Al Qaeda will have to rely on clandestine cells instead of large encampments. Covert cells can be located virtually anywhere, which is why the outcome in Afghanistan is not criticalto addressing the threat from Al Qaeda.
In short, a complete (and unlikely) victory in Afghanistan and the dismantling of the Taliban would not make Al Qaeda disappear; indeed, it would probably have no appreciable effect on Al Qaeda. At the same time, dramatically scaling back U.S. military engagement will not significantly increase the threat from Al Qaeda.
Third, the current U.S. military effort is helping fuel the very insurgency we are attempting to defeat. An expanded U.S. presence has reinforced perceptions of the United States as a foreign occupier.
Religious extremists have used the U.S. presence as an effective recruiting tool for their cause. Efforts to limit civilian casualties and other forms of collateral damage have been only partially successful, leading additional Afghans to take up arms against us.
Fourth, the expanded U.S. presence and a more energetic counterinsurgency effort in Afghanistan and Pakistan have reinforced a tacit alliance among different extremist groups whose agendas are not identical. The Taliban is itself a loose coalition of Pashtuns, many of whom are motivated by local concerns rather than by any deep commitment to global jihad. Al Qaeda, by contrast, is a global network of radical Islamists seeking to topple governments throughout the Middle East. The “Pakistani Taliban” are a separate alliance of different Islamist groups challenging the authority of the Pakistani state. The Haqqani network in Waziristan is led by a local warlord who is strongly opposed to foreign interference but reportedly also a sometime ally of Pakistan’s Inter-Service Intelligence agency (ISI).
Although cooperation among these disparate groups has increased in recent years, this development is largely a reaction to the increased foreign presence in the region and our efforts to convince the Pakistani government to take more aggressive action against these groups. Thus, our current strategy is helping drive these groups together, when our real aim should be to drive wedges between as many of them as possible and to win over those who do not share Al Qaeda’s anti-Western agenda or its commitment to global jihad.
Fifth, keeping 100,000-plus U.S. troops in yet another Muslim country lends credence to jihadi propaganda about America’s alleged hostility to Islam. Their presence may actually be increasing the overall danger that we face back home. Anger at U.S. military action in the Af/Pak theater inspired Faisal Shahzad, a U.S. citizen, to attempt an unsuccessful car bomb attack in Times Square, and other home-grown terrorists appear to have been inspired by similar motivations.

CT key to stable, long term presence – larger footprints are perceived as unsustainable and cause allies to doubt our resolve
Ward 12/15 (Jon Ward, The Daily Caller, “Influential Think Tank Calls on Obama to ‘own’ Afghan war, give clear long-term troop commitment,” 12/15/10) http://www.cnas.org/node/5437

December 15, 2010 — A new report on Afghanistan says that the U.S. public should prepare to have roughly 30,000 troops there for years to come – conducting “a prolonged low level of unconventional war” – in large part because the terrorist threat from the region is not going away, probably for decades.
“It’s time to recognize that the war in Afghanistan will not end in July 2011, and that the United States and its allies need a new strategy,” says the report from the Center for a New American Security.
CNAS is an influential think tank founded in 2007 by Michelle Flournoy and Kurt Campbell, who are now top government officials in the Obama administration at the Pentagon and the State Department, respectively.
Obama, the report said, has yet to articulate an “‘end game’ in Afghanistan – what the enduring U.S. presence and commitment would look like, or if there would be one at all.”
The report was authored by retired U.S. Army Lt. Gen. David Barno, who commanded U.S. troops in Afghanistan in 2003, and Andrew Exum, a former Army Ranger and civilian adviser to Gen. Stanley McChrystal, who commanded the mission from June 2009 to June 2010.
In fact, President Obama has already in recent weeks moved the deadline for the removal of U.S. troops from July 2011 to December 2014. But Barno and Exum argued that the perception remains in the region that the U.S. is just biding its time until it abandons Afghanistan.
The message received by Afghans at all levels of society from Obama’s December 2009 speech at West Point – where he first announced both a 30,000 troop increase and the July 2011 withdrawal date – was simple, the report said: “The Americans are leaving.”
“The U.S. has to dispel that uncertainty. We have to a commit to a long term strategy and a long term military deployment: not a large one but a sustainable one in Afghanistan,” Barno said. “Today if you’re a Pakistani national security adviser, or you’re an Afghan adviser to President Karzai, you’re operating under the assumption that the U.S. is leaving, and that’s it’s only a matter of time. We have to dispel that notion.”
Their report is clear-eyed both about the rapidly declining level of support among Americans for the war, as well as the dwindling amount of treasure available to fund such expensive military operations, because of the nation’s deficit and debt troubles.
“By 2018, the baseline U.S. defense budget of about $550 billion will be matched by annual interest payments on [the national] debt, which will only grow thereafter,” they note.
But they argue that the impact of a destabilizing exit from Afghanistan is a grave enough threat to U.S. national security to merit a continued investment, albeit a smaller one. There would be a greater ability for terrorist organizations such as Al Qaeda to plan attacks on the U.S., and an increasing risk of Pakistan’s nuclear weaponry falling into the hands of rogue actors if the government there falls.
Barno and Exum’s report states that they are offering “a responsible alternative to an exit strategy that ends the U.S. presence by precipitately turning the war over to the Afghans and … once again abandoning Central Asia as the United States tried in the 1990’s, to devastating effect.”
Obama met with his national security team regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan for two hours on Tuesday, in advance of a speech to the nation on the topic Thursday.
White House officials say the U.S. has made clear that the U.S. is committed to Afghanistan, but not without limits.
“We are committed to a long term partnership with both Afghanistan and Pakistan and have repeatedly express this publicly and privately. But, we are not providing an open ended commitment on troops,” a senior White House official told The Daily Caller.
The official said that Afghan President Hamid Karzai has made clear “he would like to transition to full Afghan control by 2014,” and that the Obama administration and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has about 40,000 troops to the 100,000 American in Afghanistan, are on board with that timeline.
“An integral part of our strategy all along has been the training of the [Afghan National Army] and [Afghan National Police] in order to enable them to take over providing security for their people. Our continued military presence will be determined by conditions on the ground and as the President said at the NATO summit in Lisbon, our aim is to end our combat mission in 2014,” the White House official said.
“The rationale is that by making clear that we will not be there indefinitely, it puts more of a sense of urgency on the Afghans to assume responsibility. This approach worked quite well in Iraq.”
Barno and Exum share the goal of turning over most security throughout the country – a task done now largely by regular U.S. military and NATO troops – to Afghans. But they argued Tuesday that in order for this hand over to happen, the Afghan people and society need to have confidence that the U.S. will be a partner for many years to come.
Only a clear promise of boots on the ground – Barno and Exum argue for a force primarily comprised of special operations forces to conduct surgical strikes – that is “for many years to come” will give this confidence.
“The psychological impact of this on the government of Pakistan, the government of Afghanistan, and on the Taliban – when they look at what their future is going to look like – could be quite substantial,” Barno said at a forum hosted by the Newseum.
Exum added: “What we need the Afghan people to do, we at least need them to send their sons into the Afghan national security forces. We’ve got to convince the Afghan people to make a choice … toward the government of Afghanistan.”
“You do that with a long term commitment to Afghanistan.”

CT still enables intel gathering
Martin 1/26 (Eric Martin, Senior Editor of The Progressive Realist, holds a bachelor’s degree in philosophy from New York University and a JD from Fordham University School of Law, “Counterterrorism in the State of the Union: A Tale of Two Paragraphs,” 1/26/11) http://www.democracyarsenal.org/2011/01/with-a-state-of-the-union-address-tilted-heavily-toward-domestic-issues-it-comes-as-no-surprise-that-us-counterterrorism-pol.html

Some argue that without a massive troop presence in Afghanistan, we would lack the intelligence necessary to effectively target al-Qaeda operatives in the region, to which there are two responses. First, we had pretty good targeting intelligence pre-9/11 without such a presence, and with far, far less resources and brainpower dedicated to the task. Second, as Christine Fair points out, "intelligence is just as likely to improve as Afghans, who dislike al-Qaeda, may be more open to sharing information when the disliked [troop-intensive military] effort is scaled back and abandoned."



===1ac Harvard round 7=== 


The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.

CONTENTIOAN ONE IS HEG

We’re losing the war in Afghanistan – tactical gains are outweighed by strategic losses
Cohen 2/9 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “Deck Chairs on the Titanic,” 2/9/11) http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/02/08/deck_chairs_on_the_titanic?print=yes&hidecomments=yes&page=full

Over the past two weeks, as the world's attention has been focused on pro-democracy demonstrations in Egypt, the tale of woe emanating from Afghanistan has only grown worse. As if right on cue, President Hamid Karzai announced at the recent security conference in Munichthat provincial reconstruction teams -- a key element of the U.S. military's counterinsurgency strategy -- are undermining his governing authority and should be winded down by 2014.
But this latest Karzai salvo is the mere tip of the iceberg. Although Gen. David Petraeus and other administration officials have tried to spin recent military gains as a reason for optimism, by President Barack Obama's own criteria for success, the United States is failing badly in Afghanistan.
Back in December 2009, when Obama announced his plans for escalation in Afghanistan, he identified three key elements of the mission: militarily breaking the Taliban's momentum and increasing Afghanistan's capacity to secure itself independently; helping the Afghan government take advantage of improved security to improve governance; and finally, forging a strong partnership between the United States and Pakistan.
On nearly all these fronts the U.S. mission is showing very little progress. The military repeatedly claims it is regaining the momentum from Taliban insurgents. And though it appears the Taliban have been weakened by an uptick in U.S. military engagement, the facts also suggest a more complicated reality. According to the well-respected Afghan NGO Safety Office (ANSO), 2010 was the most violent year of the war. The organization claims the evidence is "indisputable" that security conditions in the country are worsening. Only four provinces, according to ANSO are considered to have "low insecurity," and across Afghanistan civilian casualties are up -- as is U.S. and NATO loss of life. Indeed, there were more than 1,430 insurgent incidents in January 2011, an 80 percent increase over the same period last year.
But even if one accepts Petraeus's claims that America has "got our teeth in the enemy's jugular now," the rest of the story is more uniformly negative. Improvements in Afghanistan's security forces are sketchy at best. A new report from the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction describes a devastating tale of "poor planning" and weak management that is undermining ambitious U.S. training goals for Afghan security forces. Training of the Afghan police isn't much better. A recent survey of police mentoring in Afghanistan concluded that "corruption among the Afghan police was effectively universal," and even by NATO's own data, attrition rates for the Afghan police, though improved, are still above 50 percent.
How about the aforementioned Hamid Karzai? Here again the story is not good. Karzai finally begrudgingly agreed last month to seat the newly elected Afghan parliament -- four months after a fraud-scarred election. But he did so only after "intense pressure" from the international community. Hopes that Karzai would move "in a new direction," as Obama said at West Point, have not materialized -- and economic and political corruption, as well as poor governance, remains a fundamental part of life in Afghanistan. With Karzai's government showing such little improvement, relations between Kabul and the U.S. government have become increasingly frayed.
Across the border in Pakistan, things aren't much better. The United States has just this week suspended all high-level dialogue with Pakistan over the continued detainment of an U.S. diplomat, Raymond Davis, who is being held in violation of his diplomatic immunity by Pakistani authorities. It's indicative of the cloud of suspicion that continues to darken U.S.-Pakistan relations.
Indeed, last month there were reports that Washington plans to offer Islamabad a new set of inducements to remove the Afghan Taliban safe havens in Pakistan. But nine years of enticements from the Obama and Bush administrations have failed to convince Islamabad to abandon the Taliban as a strategic ally -- and there is little reason to believe that a new offering of American baubles and assurances will soften Pakistani intransigence.
These tales of unmet strategic objectives represent a fundamental failure of the U.S. mission in Afghanistan. Yet this has not stopped U.S. policymakers from continuing to make grandiose claims of progress.
In Obama's recent State of the Union address, he said that the fight is being "taken" to the enemy, words that dovetailed with those of his commanding general in Afghanistan, whose recent assessment to troops claimed the mission in Afghanistan is making "impressive progress" and has inflicted "enormous losses" on Taliban fighters.
The statements by Obama and Petraeus are now typical fare from the U.S. government: They offer glowing optimism about recent military gains, but make no mention of the larger strategic obstacles that imperil success in Afghanistan.
However, without tangible improvement in creating a capable and effective Afghan security force; without a competent and legitimate central government able to provide good governance to its people; without a choking-off of the supply of arms and fighters from across the border in Pakistan, the tactical gains being made by U.S. troops cannot be sustained and, quite simply, the war in Afghanistan cannot be won.
All the elements of the U.S. strategy in Afghanistan -- political, diplomatic, and military -- must be working if the effort is to be successful, not just the latter. But instead of recognizing these failures and shifting course, there is abiding resistance to any change among policymakers. Proposals to begin the process of political reconciliation with the Taliban are pushed aside because on the ground, after all, the insurgents are back on their heels. So why negotiate?

Perception of the Afghanistan quagmire destroys deterrence and hamstrings the military
Haass 12/20 (Richard N. Haas, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, “Let’s Un-Surge in Afghanistan,” 12/20/10)
http://www.cfr.org/publication/23669/lets_unsurge_in_afghanistan.html

To justify adopting a more narrow policy toward Afghanistan this spring, President Obama would need to cite several factors. First, the U.S. inability to eliminate the sanctuaries in Pakistan. Second, successful counterinsurgency depends on having a solid local partner. Two years of sustained investment and multiple but fraudulent elections suggest that Afghanistan's central government will not reach the point where it is considered effective or legitimate by the bulk of its own people. All this argues for adopting a policy of counterterrorism rather than state-building.
There are also broader reasons to recast policy. The greatest threat to U.S. national security stems from our own fiscal crisis. Afghanistan is a significant contributor to this situation and could play an important role in reducing it. A savings of $75 billion a year could help finance much-needed military modernization and reduce the deficit.
Another factor is the increased possibility of a conflict with a reckless North Korea and the continued possibility of a confrontation with Iran over its nuclear program. U.S. military forces must be freed up to contend with these issues. The perception that we are tied down in Afghanistan makes it more difficult to threaten North Korea or Iran credibly—and makes it more difficult to muster the forces to deal with either if necessary.
Ultimately Afghanistan is a strategic distraction. U.S. interests there are limited. So, too, are the resources available for national security. It is not surprising that the commander in the field, Gen. David Petraeus, is calling for committing greater resources to the theater. But it is the commander-in-chief's responsibility to take into account the nation's capacity to meet all of its challenges, national and international. It is for this reason that the perspectives of Gen. Petraeus and President Obama must necessarily diverge.

Afghanistan ties down our military and trades off with other key priorities
Cordesman 12/10 (Anthony H. Cordesman, Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy, Center for Strategic and International Studies, recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal, frequently acts as a consultant to the U.S. State Department, Defense Department, and intelligence community, former director of intelligence assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, served in numerous other government positions, including in the State Department and on NATO International Staff, “AMERICA’S WARS IN AFGHANISTAN, PAKISTAN, AND IRAQ: THE CHALLENGE OF GRAND STRATEGY, An Address to the Industrial College of the Armed Forces,” 12/10/10) http://csis.org/files/publication/101213_Iraq_and_Afghan_Talk_Edited.pdf

Reassessing Our Grand Strategic Posture in Central Asia
These same issues illustrate why we need to evaluate our grand strategic commitment to Afghanistan andPakistan in a way that makes hard choices about our future posture in Central Asia. We need to debate exactly what US goals are in all of Central Asia, and what overall level of continued US effort is really justified.
A look at the map and the region's infrastructure also makes it clear that Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia are natural Russian and Chinese spheres of influence in political, military, economic, and energy terms. If we limit our role to conventional diplomacy and military advisory roles, Russia and China will have to do what they can to bring stability and security to the region. Iran and India, and other peripheral powers will have to play a far greater role.
“Strategic neglect” is not an American strength, and neither is “strategic triage.” We cannot afford grand strategies,however, that ignore the need to make far harder choices on a global level. If the costs and risks of a major US commitment in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia remain this high, or continue to grow, this is one "Great Game" that can best be won by refusing to play it. There are simply too many complex ethnic, sectarian, tribal, and other national tensions in this region for a US to manage the end result. We have too many other interests in Asia, Europe, Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East where we already have vital strategic interests, and face problems that challenge our capabilities and resources.
Avoiding Limited Wars That Commit the Bulk of US Ground Forces and US Civil-
Military Resources to Open-Ended Armed Nation Building
More broadly, we need to consider what a near decade of conflict should shows about the way we risk making major long-term commitment of scarce US military forces and civil aid capabilities in the future, and about the need to find better ways to use our resources. It shows that we have to be far more careful about letting limited involvement escalate into “worst case wars” in one narrow part of the world.
We may not like to face the fact that we are actively involved in armed nation building, and that this can be a “worst case” form of limited war. The fact is, however, that we did escalate to this level in Iraq, we are still fighting on this level in Afghanistan, and we have a growing involvement in Pakistan.
They have tied up an immense proportion of the US defense budget, US forces, and scarce aid and development expertise in extremely high-risk commitments to a given conflict whose scale and duration cannot be predicted and run a constant risk of serious escalation and/or failure. Moreover, it is more than doubtful that the US would have escalated or engaged in any of its these wars in the way it did if their costs and risks had been properly assessed before or during the initial phase of military and stability operations. Such wars may become necessary in the future, but we need to consider the cost-benefits of this approach to making strategic commitments even when we have valid grand strategic needs, and the cost-benefits of alternative approaches. The US needs to do a far better job of considering alternative strategies and grand strategies that put far more emphasis on containment and deterrence; on reacting decisively before wars escalate to this level of requirements, and building on allies at moderate cost rather than fighting and spending in broken states.
In the process, the US also needs to be far more realistic about its severe real-world limits as a military “superpower.” The Iraq and Afghan/Pakistan wars have shown that the US now effectively has the land forces for one major regional contingency and no practical prospect of increasing them. These are the same forces that would have to help South Korea in a crisis or any other partner that required US support in a conventional war.

And the readiness of our military is key to deterrence – we aren’t invincible and we can’t afford to be tied down
Grant 09 – Research Analyst @ Lexington Institute w/ emphasis on joint doctrine, air power, aerospace defense [Dr. Rebecca Grant (PhD in International Relations from the London School of Economics and Former lecturer at Air University and Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell Air Force Base), “Global Deterrence: The Role of F-22,” Lexington Institute, February 2009]

However, the balance may be shifting again. In the last two years, Russia, India and China have all announced or clarified major defense programs that include everything from the development of advanced fighters to upgrading aircraft carriers. Turns out, adversaries took careful note of the way America and its allies used air dominance in all its operations. They reshaped their defense plans to make inroads on that asymmetric advantage. They are building advanced missiles, aircraft and subsystems and there’s also a world market for their best wares. For all these reasons, conventional deterrence is moving up the list of jobs for America’s military. According to Mullen: A big part of credibility, of course, lies in our conventional capability. The capability to project U.S. military power globally and conduct effective theater-level operations across the domains of land, sea, air, space, cyberspace, and information – including the capability to win decisively – remains essential to deterrence effectiveness. We must therefore address our conventional force structure and its readiness as a deterrent factor, especially after 7 years at war. No one is suggesting that deterrence in this multi-polar world will be the same as the Cold War. Far from it. For one thing, America will not have the same economic dominance it once enjoyed. America’s economy will still probably be the biggest for a time, but economic and financial peers are already on the scene. Some forecast China’s economy may grow fast enough to overtake the US. With China, and other nations, military deterrence will be one part of a much wider relationship encompassing trade agreements, financial deals, diplomacy, and yes, other competition for global influence as China navigates its “peaceful rise.” Instead of spies and the Berlin Wall, the deterrence of the 21st Century will include gala state dinners, toasts with strong liquor, and a shifting series of international consortia and negotiations on everything from trade to climate change. However, low-level military friction is likely to be a constant. Russia will be active on its borders and China will continue to build global ties. Expect the spheres of influence of the major world powers to collide from time to time. THE NEW DETERRENCE METRICS Conventional deterrence will have a big role in shaping those collisions – and whether they turn out to be occasional jostling or more serious face-offs. Pg. 1-3 1ac

Overstretch risks miscalculation and great power war
Gordon 7 – chief military correspondent for the New York Times (Michael, Survival, Break Point? Iraq and America’s Military Forces, http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/media/e2wquwrwth0v8u1trg3h/contributions/m/7/6/7/m76738823338363h.pdf) 

Without adequate force levels, operations in al-Anbar became a strategic version of the Whac-a-Mole arcade game in which a target is struck only to appear elsewhere. When American forces massed troops to clear one area they left another area poorly protected, creating a vacuum that the insurgents eagerly filled.9 The consequences were summed up in an intelligence report that was prepared by Multinational Forces-West, the American command for the western area. Outside of islands of relative stability like Fallujah and al-Qaim, cleared in large-scale combat operations by American troops, the dominant force was not the American military or the new Iraqi government, but al-Qaeda in Mesopotamia. The report estimated that the deployment of a coalition division and a massive infusion of aid, neither of which were in the offing, were required to reverse the deteriorating security conditions.10 The risks presented by a constrained number of ground forces extend beyond Iraq. They raise the possibility that an adversary might miscalculate, projecting that it can undertake provocative actions that the United States would find it difficult to respond to. The Iraq War was intended by the Bush administration as a demonstration of American power and resolve that would serve as a cautionary lesson to nations like Iran, which is pursuing a nuclear-weapons capability, or Syria, which has supported Hizbullah. With the difficulties of the United States in Iraq, the lesson has backfired. But the limited number of forces may add to the perception that the United States is bogged down in Iraq and unable to respond adequately to other contingencies

And it causes political exhaustion, withdrawal helps our reserves
Kretkowski, 10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)

Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: I now oppose a counterinsurgency (COIN) strategy in Afghanistan and advocate a purely counterterror (CT) strategy (PDF link) there instead.
Blame history—or histories—that I've read recently, starting with Livy's works on early Rome (books I-V) last spring and Donald Kagan's The Peloponnesian War at the end of 2009. I've taken occasional dips back into Robert Kaplan's Warrior Politics and his source materials (Churchill, the Federalists, Machiavelli, Sun Tzu, and several others).
What I've taken from that reading is that the U.S. must pull back from its current efforts to remake Iraq and Afghanistan in the image of a Western democracy, or risk long-term political and economic exhaustion.
What follows is not an argument about morality, and readers may find much of it amoral. It is about making cold-blooded political and economic calculations about where U.S. national interests will lie in the next decade. They do not lie in an open-ended COIN mission.
The history of the Peloponnesian War is particularly relevant here. Athens began fighting Sparta with the resources of an empire and thousands of talents of silver in the bank—enough to fight expensive, far-flung naval and land campaigns for three years without lasting financial consequences.
Athens was rich, and if peace with Sparta had come by the end of the third year, Athens would have continued to prosper and rule over much of the Mediterranean. (Athens had a "hard"—conquered or cowed—empire as opposed to the "soft" empire of alliances and treaties the U.S. currently has.)
But the war with Sparta dragged on for decades, despite occasional peace overtures by both sides. By war's end—despite the spoils of battle and increased taxes and tribute extracted from its shrinking dominion—Athens was broke, depopulated by fighting and plague, bereft of its empire, and could no longer project power into the Mediterranean. Where its former interests ranged from Black Sea Turkey to southern Italy, it spent decades as a small-bore power and never regained its former strength or influence.
I worry that the U.S. is similarly locked into an open-ended commitment to democratize a nation that is of regional rather than global importance—a parallel to Athens convincing itself that it had to conquer distant, militarily insignificant Sicily.
"Winning" in Afghanistan
The U.S. could "win" in Afghanistan where victory is defined as a stable, legitimate central government that can project power within its own borders. I don't doubt that the U.S. and its allies could accomplish this given enough time and resources. But I think—as many COIN experts also do—that it will take at least another decade or more of blood and treasure to produce such a result, if ever.
Of course I'd like to see the results of a successful COIN campaign: a stable democracy, women's rights, and general prosperity for Afghans, who among all Asia's peoples surely deserve those things. I certainly want to end al-Qa'ida's ability to operate freely in South Asia and elsewhere.
The U.S. is the only country that would both conceive of these missions and attempt to carry them out. But goals beyond keeping al-Qa'ida on the run don't serve the long-term interests of the U.S., and I am more interested in regaining and preserving U.S. hard power than I am in the rewards that would come from "winning" a lengthy COIN war.
I fear the U.S. people and government becoming exhausted from the costs of a lengthy COIN effort, just as they are already exhausted from (and have largely forgotten about) the Iraq war. I worry that if this fatigue sits in, the U.S. will abandon foreign-policy leadership as it has done periodically throughout history.
This outcome would be worse than a resurgent Taliban, worse than Afghan women and men being further oppressed, and worse than al-Qa'ida having plentiful additional caves to plot in.
Here are some signs of an exhaustion of U.S. power: The U.S. is already overextended, with commitments in Iraq (shrinking for now), Afghanistan (expanding), Yemen (pending) and Iran (TBD). At home, the U.S. economy remains feeble and in the long term is increasingly hostage to other nations for goods and services it no longer produces (and increasingly, no longer can produce).
Even more worrisome is the U.S. credit situation. The wars, and much other U.S. government spending, are now heavily underwritten by other countries' purchases of debt the U.S. issues. It has borrowed trillions from foreign countries and especially China, which continues its steady, highly rational policy of promoting exports while freeriding under the American security umbrella (just as the U.S. once rode for free beneath Britain's).
Over time, those countries accrue enough debt to have a say in U.S. policies that may threaten the dollar's value, which is why you now see high U.S. officials flying to Beijing to soothe PRC nerves and explain why America keeps borrowing money.
At home, there are few resources to apply following a major disaster, such as a Katrina-style hurricane or a major earthquake.
The U.S. needs to start rebuilding its reserves—of capital, of credit, of political goodwill abroad, of military force—to be ready for these and more serious crises, for which we currently have few resources to spare. Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis); Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).

Heg is good
Thayer, 6 – professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)

A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's number one power the diplomatic, economic and military leader. Those arguing against primacy claim that the United States should retrench, ei¬ther because the United States lacks the power to maintain its primacy and should withdraw from its global commitments, or because the maintenance of primacy will lead the United States into the trap of "imperial overstretch." In the previous issue of The National Interest, Christopher Layne warned of these dangers of pri¬macy and called for retrenchment.1 Those arguing for a grand strategy of retrenchment are a diverse lot. They include isolationists, who want no foreign military commitments; selective engagers, who want U.S. military commitments to centers of economic might; and offshore balancers, who want a modified form of selective engagement that would have the United States abandon its landpower presence abroad in favor of relying on airpower and seapower to defend its in¬terests. But retrenchment, in any of its guis¬es, must be avoided. If the United States adopted such a strategy, it would be a profound strategic mistake that would lead to far greater instability and war in the world, imperil American security and deny the United States and its allies the benefits of primacy. There are two critical issues in any discussion of America's grand strategy: Can America remain the dominant state? Should it strive to do this? America can remain dominant due to its prodigious military, economic and soft power capa¬bilities. The totality of that equation of power answers the first issue. The United States has overwhelming military capa¬bilities and wealth in comparison to other states or likely potential alliances. Barring some disaster or tremendous folly, that will remain the case for the foreseeable future. With few exceptions, even those who advocate retrenchment acknowledge this. So the debate revolves around the desirability of maintaining American pri¬macy. Proponents of retrenchment focus a great deal on the costs of U.S. action¬ but they fall to realize what is good about American primacy. The price and risks of primacy are reported in newspapers every day; the benefits that stem from it are not. A GRAND strategy of ensur¬ing American primacy takes as its starting point the protec¬tion of the U.S. homeland and American global interests. These interests include ensuring that critical resources like oil flow around the world, that the global trade and monetary regimes flourish and that Washington's worldwide network of allies is reassured and protected. Allies are a great asset to the United States, in part because they shoulder some of its burdens. Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in Afghanistan or the Australians in East Timor. In contrast, a strategy based on re¬trenchment will not be able to achieve these fundamental objectives of the United States. Indeed, retrenchment will make the United States less secure than the present grand strategy of primacy. This is because threats will exist no mat¬ter what role America chooses to play in international politics. Washington can¬not call a "time out", and it cannot hide from threats. Whether they are terror¬ists, rogue states or rising powers, his¬tory shows that threats must be confront¬ed. Simply by declaring that the United States is "going home", thus abandoning its commitments or making unconvinc¬ing half pledges to defend its interests and allies, does not mean that others will respect American wishes to retreat. To make such a declaration implies weak-ness and emboldens aggression. In the anarchic world of the animal kingdom, predators prefer to eat the weak rather than confront the strong. The same is true of the anarchic world of interna¬tional politics. If there is no diplomatic solution to the threats that confront the United States, then the conventional and strategic military power of the United States is what protects the country from such threats. And when enemies must be confront¬ed, a strategy based on primacy focuses on engaging enemies overseas, away from .American soil. Indeed, a key tenet of the Bush Doctrine is to attack terrorists far from America's shores and not to wait while they use bases in other countries to plan and train for attacks against the United States itself. This requires a phys¬ical, on the ground presence that cannot be achieved by offshore balancing. Indeed, as Barry Posen has noted, U.S. primacy is secured because America, at present, commands the "global com¬mon" the oceans, the world's airspace and outer space allowing the United States to project its power far from its borders, while denying those common avenues to its enemies. As a consequence, the costs of power projection for the United States and its allies are reduced, and the robustness of the United States' conventional and strategic deterrent ca¬pabilities is increased.' This is not an advantage that should be relinquished lightly. A remarkable fact about international politics today -in a world where Ameri¬can primacy is clearly and unambiguous¬ly on display--is that countries want to align themselves with the United States. Of course, this is not out of any sense of altruism, in most cases, but because doing so allows them to use the power of the United States for their own purposes, ¬their own protection, or to gain greater influence. Of 192 countries, 84 are allied with America -their security is tied to the United States through treaties and other informal arrangements and they include almost all of the major economic and military powers. That is a ratio of almost 17 to one (85 to five), and a big change from the Cold War when the ratio was about 1.8 to one of states aligned with the United States versus the Soviet Union. Never before in its history has this coun¬try, or any country, had so many allies. U.S. primacy -and the bandwagon¬ing effect has also given us extensive in¬fluence in international politics, allowing the United States to shape the behavior of states and international institutions. Such influence comes in many forms, one of which is America's ability to cre¬ate coalitions of like minded states to free Kosovo, stabilize Afghanistan, invade Iraq or to stop proliferation through the Pro¬liferation Security Initiative (PSI). Doing so allows the United States to operate with allies outside of the where it can be stymied by opponents. American led wars in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq stand in contrast to the UN's inability to save the people of Darfur or even to conduct any military campaign to realize the goals of its charter. The quiet effec¬tiveness of the PSI in dismantling Libya's WMD programs and unraveling the A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation. You can count with one hand coun¬tries opposed to the United States. They are the "Gang of Five": China, Cuba, Iran, North Korea and Venezeula. Of course, countries like India, for example, do not agree with all policy choices made by the United States, such as toward Iran, but New Delhi is friendly to Washington. Only the "Gang of Five" may be expected to consistently resist the agenda and ac¬tions of the United States. China is clearly the most important of these states because it is a rising great power. But even Beijing is intimidated by the United States and refrains from openly challenging U.S. power. China proclaims that it will, if necessary, re¬sort to other mechanisms of challenging the United States, including asymmetric strategies such as targeting communica¬tion and intelligence satellites upon which the United States depends. But China may not be confident those strategies would work, and so it is likely to refrain from testing the United States directly for the foreseeable future because China's power benefits, as we shall see, from the international order U.S. primacy creates. The other states are far weaker than China. For three of the "Gang of Five" cases Venezuela, Iran, Cuba it is an anti U.S. regime that is the source of the problem; the country itself is not intrin¬sically anti American. Indeed, a change of regime in Caracas, Tehran or Havana could very well reorient relations. 
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power Rome, Britain or the United States today. Schol¬ars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we con¬sider the current international order free trade, a robust monetary regime, increas¬ing respect for human rights, growing de¬mocratization is directly linked to U.S. power. Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages fol¬lowed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. With¬out U.S. power, the liberal order cre¬ated by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Rai Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washing¬ton and the world. 
The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated rela¬tionships aligned -between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. Wars still occur where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly war's worst form: great power wars. 
Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread de¬mocracy and other elements of its ideol¬ogy of liberalism. Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.3 So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing inter¬ests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. lead¬ership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Admin¬istration for attempting to spread democ¬racy in the Middle East, labeling such an effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's crit¬ics to explain why democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or sta¬bilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Per¬haps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Af¬ghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threat¬ened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Wash¬ington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Ku¬wait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. 
Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the glob¬al economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network character¬ized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mo¬bility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a glob¬al public good from which all states ben¬efit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his ca¬reer confident in the socialist ideology of post independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recog¬nizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globaliza¬tion, which are facilitated through Amer¬ican primacy.4 As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. 

CONTENTION 2 IS ASIA

First scenario—China

China is rising now because of Afghanistan, risking catastrophic miscalculation
Paal 11/2 (Douglas H. Paal, vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, served as vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase International and as unofficial U.S. representative to Taiwan as director of the American Institute in Taiwan, was on the National Security Council staffs of Presidents Reagan and George H. W. Bush as director of Asian Affairs, and then as senior director and special assistant to the President, held positions in the policy planning staff at the State Department, as a senior analyst for the CIA, and at U.S. Embassies in Singapore and Beijing, studied at Brown and Harvard Universities, “China: Actions Belie Rhetoric,” 11/2/10) http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41882

A recent senior Chinese official visiting Washington bluffly told listeners not to pay attention to what’s said in China’s media, but to listen to the words of China’s leaders. Responsible American policy makers have tried to follow this advice for the past two years, but the gap between China’s rhetoric and its public opinion outlets has continued to grow. More disturbingly, China’s actions have come to correspond to nationalist and emotional public opinion in fact more often than the leaders’ calming words would suggest.
For a long time, more than twenty years, China’s leadership has followed the admonition of the late Deng Xiaoping to “hide one’s abilities, and bide one’s time (taoguang yanghui).” This has been generously interpreted as meaning that China should grow strong by sticking to the economic tasks at hand and not cause others to fear China’s rise. Another more sinister interpretation said it means China should not alarm its neighbors with its growing strength, but wait for the right moment to strike against them.
Recent Chinese behavior is strengthening the case for the latter interpretation. This is most apparent in China’s increasing assertiveness in the maritime regions close to its eastern and southern coasts, as well as in the cyber and space domains. As China’s military has developed new and unprecedented capabilities, in the first instance to intimidate Taiwan and its American protectors, it has been rewarded with a reduction of tensions from Taiwan and new opportunities to use its new power elsewhere in the region.
Meanwhile, many in China seem to think the United States has recently become dramatically weaker. The United States bogged itself down in two wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and then multiplied its weakness by triggering the worst recession since the Great Depression. It is therefore easy to understand why the Chinese people, schooled since 1949 on a literature of national humiliation (guo chi), might see this moment of weakness in the United States, and political and economic disarray in Japan, and perhaps elsewhere, as a time to begin to strike back against accumulated grievances.
One can impute a simple logic to recent Chinese behavior. The maritime regions near China are contested, with counterclaims surrounding un-inhabitable or virtually un-inhabitable bits of territory. China has historically not pressed its claims vigorously because it was weak, and the maritime nations of the region and the United States were too strong to be dislodged. But now the “correlation of forces,” to use the old Soviet phrase, is changing.
Is this just logic or theory, and not practical reality? We can look at history and show this has been a policy that has emerged with a certain consistency through dramatic swings in regimes in China. China took the Paracel Islands in the South China Sea from Saigon in 1974, just after the United States and North Vietnam concluded the Paris Peace Talks to prepare the way for an American exit from Indochina. This was during the heyday in China of the Gang of Four leftists, but also the last days of pragmatic leader Zhou Enlai.
China seized several islands from Hanoi, its erstwhile ally, in 1988, after Mikhail Gorbachev had pronounced in Vladivostok that the USSR was downgrading its role in the region (as a condition for improving relations with China, on terms dictated to a declining Russia by Deng Xiaoping). The Soviet navy sailed out of Cam Ranh Bay and past the islands as China seized them.
Finally, in 1994, China took possession of Philippine-claimed Mischief Reef in the Spratly Islands, shortly after the U.S.-Philippine Basing Agreement expired, causing the U.S. navy to depart Subic Bay, where it had been stationed since 1898. This was under the leadership of Western-friendly Jiang Zemin.
So, should it be surprising today, that despite today’s leaders’ reassurances of benign intent, forces are being allowed in China to fulfill long-standing dreams? The pattern of the past suggests we should not be surprised, even though, as before, China generally seeks to benefit from the existing international system while adjusting its terms at the margins. The real issues are the wisdom of this course of action and the response it will engender, not whether it is occurring. 
In the 1930-1940s, Japan, under different circumstances, overestimated its strength and underestimated America’s, with tragic consequences. Lessons should be learned from that episode, on all sides. Today China may be at the initial stage of making a similar mistaken estimation. The lesson of history suggests China should consider early, or be reminded firmly, that it may be moving in an unwise direction.
But will the United States and allied response to China’s current small steps be adequate to meet this challenge, deflect it, or if necessary defeat it? It might be all too easy under current circumstances for China to calculate that the response will not. The United States is only just beginning to extricate itself from Iraq and has not begun withdrawal from Afghanistan, which will delay redeployments of resources to East Asia. 
Following previous domestic economic and political crises, the United States has bounced back, but only after six, eight, or even ten years of election cycles and political regeneration. (Think of the post-Depression years and the post-Vietnam malaise.) China could be tempted to rush to a judgment that the U.S. days of preeminence are over, since America is only two years into this crisis. If the United States requires the traditional interval to regenerate itself, that may give China further time to mistakenly estimate the correlation of forces.

Our perceived embroilment tempers a militant, rising China which increases the risk of conflict – withdrawal and renewed strength creates a cooperative relationship
Felzenberg and Gray 1/3 (Alvin S. Felzenberg, lexturer at the University of Pennsylvania’s Annenberg School for Communication and at Yale University, Alexander B. Gray, Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and the war-studies department of King’s College, London. “The New Isolationism,” 12/3/10) http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/256150

As the deteriorating situation on the Korean peninsula reminds us, the security concerns of the United States do not disappear in times of economic distress. America’s interests, whether economic, strategic, diplomatic, or moral, cannot be set aside when Congress tires of them. The United States and the world paid a severe price for the ostrich-like behavior too many democratic nations exhibited during the 1920s and 1930s. Reps. Paul and Frank appear determined to repeat this mistake.
The United States continues to face an array of global challenges that require a modern, technologically superior military. It is very much in the interests of the United States to uphold the territorial integrity and economic independence of much of Asia, maintain the security of critical waterways such as the Strait of Hormuz, and protect American trade from pirates and terrorists worldwide. Rather than regard the nation’s defenses as a ready source of money available for diversion to domestic concerns, Congress and the president should identify the challenges America faces and assure that its military is able to meet them.
At its core, the Frank-Paul effort appears to be an attempt to prevent repetitions of wars the two congressmen regard as either unnecessary or faultily executed. But the United States has broader and more important long-run national-security concerns than Iraq and Afghanistan. As the U.S. became bogged down in those two countries, it began feeling strains elsewhere, precipitated by China, Russia, and potentially toxic menaces such as Iran and Venezuela.
Counterinsurgency warfare and Predator-drone strikes against transnational terrorists certainly defined much of the last decade. But the next decade will witness increasing competition among nation-states for control of valuable resources and the exertion of influence worldwide.
Russia, through its control of vital energy pipelines, seeks to draw Western Europe more closely into its orbit, thereby weakening the latter’s historical ties to the United States. By taking a similar approach to Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Georgia, the Baltics, and Moldova, Russia is on the verge of re-colonizing economically many of its former satellites. 
China, while continuing to upgrade its naval capabilities, grows increasingly assertive. In pursuit of its own Monroe Doctrine for East Asia, Beijing has proclaimed its sovereignty over the entire South China Sea, menaced neighbors from India to Vietnam, used its economic muscle to intimidate Japan, and increased its threats against Taiwan. China’s leaders have been studying the writings of the 19th-century American naval theorist Alfred Thayer Mahan, who demonstrated the connection between sea power and economic strength. At the turn of the last century, Theodore Roosevelt found in Mahan the blueprint for achieving unprecedented American influence in world affairs. His efforts to build both a strong navy and a sound economy ushered in the “American century,” the period in which the United States became a force for good throughout the world and a beacon of hope for those yearning to breathe free.
In pursuing a “blue-water” ocean-going navy capable of supporting their expanding global economic ambitions, the Chinese are acting from a desire to defend their nation’s trade and access to world markets, with a focus on energy supplies. It is critical that the Chinese — who are closely studying both Mahan’s writings and the history of the Monroe Doctrine — and Americans who see Chinese hegemony over Asia as either inevitable or a price they are willing to pay in exchange for slashing defense spending not draw the wrong lessons from history. Both sides should understand that it was not American might that gave the Monroe Doctrine force, but the then all-powerful British navy. For much of the 19th century, Great Britain had reasons of its own for keeping other nations out of the Western Hemisphere and for wanting to see the United States develop internally.
If appropriately funded, the United States Navy has the capacity to play a similar role in China’s rise — perhaps, in the process, influencing how China develops. Should China conclude that the United States intends to remain a visible and active presence in the region, it will respond accordingly. Acting together, the two nations might embark on a series of cooperative ventures designed to help assure a steady flow of trade and an unimpeded exchange of people, goods, and ideas. They can also work together to combat a rise in piracy and terrorism in Asia and elsewhere and to respond to humanitarian crises, like the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. For its part, China, should it continue to hold North Korea in check, will achieve some of the status it seeks as a rising world power, with commensurate influence on the world stage. 
Should China conclude, on the other hand, that the United States intends to turn inward, it may grow even more ambitious and assertive in its region and beyond, potentially menacing world peace. Its smaller neighbors nervously wait to see how the United States will respond to China’s growing assertiveness. Should they come to believe that the U.S. is in retreat, they will make their own accommodations with Beijing. That result would wreak irreparable damage both to America’s economy and to its security. 
Messrs. Frank and Paul and their supporters have taken it into their minds that a reduced American presence in world affairs, particularly where the military is involved, would be a good thing. They had better think again: World politics, like nature, is hardly prone to respect vacuums. Iran and Venezuela remain as bellicose and destabilizing as ever, in spite of two years of Obama “engagement.” Iran squats beside the Strait of Hormuz, through which much of the world’s energy supply travels. Iran has also, the original Monroe Doctrine be damned, extended its military cooperation with Hugo Chávez’s authoritarian regime. Evidence is strong that Venezuela is providing sanctuary for Hezbollah terrorists in South America. The alliance of these two anti-American and increasingly menacing states could pose a threat to the United States of a kind that would make us nostalgic for the Cuban Missile Crisis.

Unchecked Chinese rise causes global nuclear war 
Walton 7 – C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, 2007, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49

Obviously, it is of vital importance to the United States that the PRC does not become the hegemon of Eastern Eurasia. As noted above, however, regardless of what Washington does, China's success in such an endeavor is not as easily attainable as pessimists might assume. The PRC appears to be on track to be a very great power indeed, but geopolitical conditions are not favorable for any Chinese effort to establish sole hegemony; a robust multipolar system should suffice to keep China in check, even with only minimal American intervention in local squabbles. The more worrisome danger is that Beijing will cooperate with a great power partner, establishing a very muscular axis. Such an entity would present a critical danger to the balance of power, thus both necessitating very active American intervention in Eastern Eurasia and creating the underlying conditions for a massive, and probably nuclear, great power war. Absent such a "super-threat," however, the demands on American leaders will be far more subtle: creating the conditions for Washington's gentle decline from playing the role of unipolar quasi-hegemon to being "merely" the greatest of the world's powers, while aiding in the creation of a healthy multipolar system that is not marked by close great power alliances.

Specifically, South China Sea is a flash point for escalation --- perceived inability to fight spurs Chinese aggression. 
Springut 9, a Joseph S. Nye, Jr. National Security Intern at the Center for a New American Security. 09 [ Micah, July 27th, “Managing China's Growing Assertiveness in the South China Sea”, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/4124/managing-chinas-growing-assertiveness-in-the-south-china-sea

While the U.S. military remains preoccupied with ongoing operations in the Middle East, competition brewing in the South China Sea risks greater conflict if not properly managed. Two recent maritime incidents in the region involving the Chinese and American navies are manifestations of ongoing jockeying between the two powers, and are a reminder that subtle shifts in power have put new areas of Asia into play. In March, Chinese naval vessels harassed an American reconnaissance ship, the U.S.N.S. Impeccable, 75 miles off the coast of Hainan island, and in June, a Chinese submarine stalking a U.S. Navy destroyer collided with its trailing sonar array. The Department of Defense agreed to hold a dialogue with their Chinese counterparts in the near future in the hopes of averting future incidents and establishing procedures to resolve them. This is a positive step. However, a number of disconcerting trends call into question the efficacy of U.S. policy in the region and highlight a dilemma for the United States that will only deepen over time. Chinese territorial claims over the South China Sea and its islands and atolls overlap with those of a number of Southeast Asian nations. The volume of trade carried through its waters make it of vital strategic importance in Asia, while resource competition and military expansion have the potential to generate conflict. The latest maritime incidents are reflective of a more assertive stance from Beijing in recent years and come as China oversees the impressive modernization of its naval capabilities. Beijing only recently renewed pressures on its conflicting territorial claims with the Philippines and Vietnam (and on plans by Western oil companies to extract resources in the area), throw ing into doubt a 2002 agreement on managing tensions in the region. China’s response to the Impeccable incident was also troubling, with a Foreign Ministry spokesman arguing against international law in maintaining that American ships needed “permission” to enter into China’s Exclusive Economic Zone. Nevertheless, the American response to these provocative acts was positively mild. The government did nothing stronger than to lodge a complaint with the Chinese government after the Impeccable incident, and declared the submarine collision to be inadvertent, declining to make it an open issue. These reactions were clearly designed to keep the incidents from imperiling Washington’s larger agenda with Beijing. In fact, U.S. stated policy on South China Sea territorial disputes is similarly cautious and has not changed since the mid-1990s, when the U.S. asserted it would not take a stance on any territorial claim and would urge a non-assertive environment for the peaceful resolution of differences. Such an approach reveals a crucial dilemma in America’s strategy towards China. The U.S. has pursued what some have called “strategic hedging,” seeking to induce Chinese cooperation on a range of shared interests, while simultaneously preparing for the possibility that China will choose confrontation. Yet, given the desire to preserve relations with Beijing and to avoid feeding tensions, the U.S. prefers that its military deterrent be more implicit than explicit. The hope is that sober minds in Beijing, who understand the need for a peaceful international environment for economic growth, will prevail. However, American strategy in this instance fails to appreciate Chinese calculations in the South China Sea. The primary concern is not that China would make a strategically disastrous choice to confront the United States head-on there. Rather, China might act aggressively — perhaps through economic and military pressure on its southern neighbors — if it believes that it can limit U.S. opposition and international fallout. Elements in the Chinese government are clearly emboldened by recent trends. The Global Times, a central government mouthpiece, recently ran an article stating that 92 percent of internet users think the South China Sea dispute will have to be resolved by force, suggesting that military action would be an attractive option for distracting from any eventual domestic troubles. A think tank subordinate to the PLA General Staff Department called this month for mounting a military campaign that would “strike at the arrogance of one or two small nations, realistically recover a few strategic islands and reefs, including with strikes against illegal oil wells.” The decisive factor, in their view, was that the United States lacked the will to oppose military action. If not disabused of these notions, the PLA and others will continue to see opportunity where there is only danger. To address these misconceptions, the U.S. must clarify its commitments to defending the South China Sea against aggression. At the same time, it must tread carefully to reduce to the greatest extent possible a Chinese backlash, while allowing space for Beijing to rein in those advocating confrontation. The Defense Department should use the planned talks on maritime issues to convey America’s resolve to maintain its presence in the South China Sea. Yet, because this issue is larger than just maritime incidents, these efforts must be followed by other measures. A high-profile public address from a top State or Defense Department official should explain American interests in the region — including freedom of navigation through this vital part of the global commons, and the peaceful resolution of territorial disputes — and reaffirm the United States’ willingness to protect those interests. The U.S. should also strengthen security relationships with its Southeast Asian partners.

That escalates
Havely, staff writer BBC and News Online, 99 [“World: Asia-Pacific
Analysis: Flashpoint Spratly China’s territorial claim extends well into South East Asia”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/asia-pacific/279170.stm] 

The disputed territory of the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea offers one of the region's major potential flashpoints for the 21st century. If conflict ever did break out there, no less than six nations could quickly find themselves in the midst of a bruising encounter. Vietnam, Taiwan, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and the superpower of China have all staked overlapping claims in whole or in part around the Spratly region. All, apart from Brunei, occupy one or more of the islands backed up with military installations and the area is stage to frequent tense stand-offs between the competing parties. Rich rocks To date the most serious confrontation to take place in the Spratlys occurred in 1988 when Chinese forces evicted a Vietnamese presence on Johnson Reef. Beijing says that archaeological evidence proves the South China Sea was historically Chinese territory. Now it wants it back. Most of the islands are low-lying coral reefs and rocky outcrops, home to little more than a few sea birds. Some are so small they disappear at high tide, whilst others provide barely enough space for one person to keep their feet dry. But these islands are more than just dots on a map. Their significance lies in what surrounds them: water or, more specifically, the 250,000 square kilometres (155,000 square miles) of the South China Sea. Around the islands are some of the world's richest fishing grounds. And underneath the sea bed there are thought to be massive reserves of oil and gas - both are valuable resources for what has been, at least until recently, an expanding, energy-hungry region. Of significance to the wider world are the vital sea-lanes that traverse the area, transporting oil Middle Eastern oil to Japan and west coast America. Around a quarter of the world's total shipping trade passes through the area every year. War in the Spratlys could quickly have an impact on the global economy. War games It would also put pressure on the US to intervene, as it has defence guarantees and treaties with a number of the claimants. It would be reluctant to do so. In 1995 the US naval war college ran a series of computer war games simulating a conflict with China over the South China Sea. In every case Chinese forces won the day. Strategic analysts view the Spratlys dispute as the result of a so-called power vacuum in post-Cold War East Asia. 

In general, primacy in Asia is key to regional stability and stopping multiple sites for escalation
Goh, 08 – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database)

The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance and deference means that the stability of a hierarchical order is fundamentally related to a collective sense of certainty about the leadership and order of the hierarchy. This certainty is rooted in a combination of material calculations – smaller states' assurance that the expected costs of the dominant state conquering them would be higher than the benefits – and ideational convictions – the sense of legitimacy, derived from shared values and norms that accompanies the super-ordinate state's authority in the social order. The empirical analysis in the next section shows that regional stability in East Asia in the post-Second World War years can be correlated to the degree of collective certainty about the US-led regional hierarchy. East Asian stability and instability has been determined by U.S. assurances, self-confidence, and commitment to maintaining its primary position in the regional hierarchy; the perceptions and confidence of regional states about US commitment; and the reactions of subordinate states in the region to the varied challengers to the regional hierarchical order. 
4. Hierarchy and the East Asian security order
Currently, the regional hierarchy in East Asia is still dominated by the United States. Since the 1970s, China has increasingly claimed the position of second-ranked great power, a claim that is today legitimized by the hierarchical deference shown by smaller subordinate powers such as South Korea and Southeast Asia. Japan and South Korea can, by virtue of their alliance with the United States, be seen to occupy positions in a third layer of regional major powers, while India is ranked next on the strength of its new strategic relationship with Washington. North Korea sits outside the hierarchic order but affects it due to its military prowess and nuclear weapons capability. 
Apart from making greater sense of recent history, conceiving of the US' role in East Asia as the dominant state in the regional hierarchy helps to clarify three critical puzzles in the contemporary international and East Asian security landscape. 
First, it contributes to explaining the lack of sustained challenges to American global preponderance after the end of the Cold War. Three of the key potential global challengers to US unipolarity originate in Asia (China, India, and Japan), and their support for or acquiescence to, US dominance have helped to stabilize its global leadership. Through its dominance of the Asian regional hierarchy, the United States has been able to neutralize the potential threats to its position from Japan via an alliance, from India by gradually identifying and pursuing mutual commercial and strategic interests, and from China by encircling and deterring it with allied and friendly states that support American preponderance. 
Secondly, recognizing US hierarchical preponderance further explains contemporary under-balancing in Asia, both against a rising China, and against incumbent American power. I have argued that one defining characteristic of a hierarchical system is voluntary subordination of lesser states to the dominant state, and that this goes beyond rationalistic bandwagoning because it is manifested in a social contract that comprises the related processes of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference. Critically, successful and sustainable hierarchical assurance and deference helps to explain why Japan is not yet a ‘normal’ country. Japan has experienced significant impetus to revise and expand the remit of its security forces in the last 15 years. Yet, these pressures continue to be insufficient to prompt a wholesale revision of its constitution and its remilitarization. The reason is that the United States extends its security umbrella over Japan through their alliance, which has led Tokyo not only to perceive no threat from US dominance, but has in fact helped to forge a security community between them (Nau, 2003). Adjustments in burden sharing in this alliance since the 1990s have arisen not from greater independent Japanese strategic activism, but rather from periods of strategic uncertainty and crises for Japan when it appeared that American hierarchical assurance, along with US' position at the top of the regional hierarchy, was in question. Thus, the Japanese priority in taking on more responsibility for regional security has been to improve its ability to facilitate the US' central position, rather than to challenge it.13 In the face of the security threats from North Korea and China, Tokyo's continued reliance on the security pact with the United States is rational. While there remains debate about Japan's re-militarization and the growing clout of nationalist ‘hawks’ in Tokyo, for regional and domestic political reasons, a sustained ‘normalization’ process cannot take place outside of the restraining framework of the United States–Japan alliance (Samuels, 2007; Pyle, 2007). Abandoning the alliance will entail Japan making a conscience choice not only to remove itself from the US-led hierarchy, but also to challenge the United States dominance directly. 
The United States–ROK alliance may be understood in a similar way, although South Korea faces different sets of constraints because of its strategic priorities related to North Korea. As J.J. Suh argues, in spite of diminishing North Korean capabilities, which render the US security umbrella less critical, the alliance endures because of mutual identification – in South Korea, the image of the US as ‘the only conceivable protector against aggression from the North,’ and in the United States, an image of itself as protector of an allied nation now vulnerable to an ‘evil’ state suspected of transferring weapons of mass destruction to terrorist networks (Suh, 2004). Kang, in contrast, emphasizes how South Korea has become less enthusiastic about its ties with the United States – as indicated by domestic protests and the rejection of TMD – and points out that Seoul is not arming against a potential land invasion from China but rather maritime threats (Kang, 2003, pp.79–80). These observations are valid, but they can be explained by hierarchical deference toward the United States, rather than China. The ROK's military orientation reflects its identification with and dependence on the United States and its adoption of US' strategic aims. In spite of its primary concern with the North Korean threat, Seoul's formal strategic orientation is toward maritime threats, in line with Washington's regional strategy. Furthermore, recent South Korean Defense White Papers habitually cited a remilitarized Japan as a key threat. The best means of coping with such a threat would be continued reliance on the US security umbrella and on Washington's ability to restrain Japanese remilitarization (Eberstadt et al., 2007). Thus, while the United States–ROK bilateral relationship is not always easy, its durability is based on South Korea's fundamental acceptance of the United States as the region's primary state and reliance on it to defend and keep regional order. It also does not rule out Seoul and other US allies conducting business and engaging diplomatically with China. 
India has increasingly adopted a similar strategy vis-à-vis China in recent years. Given its history of territorial and political disputes with China and its contemporary economic resurgence, India is seen as the key potential power balancer to a growing China. Yet, India has sought to negotiate settlements about border disputes with China, and has moved significantly toward developing closer strategic relations with the United States. Apart from invigorated defense cooperation in the form of military exchange programs and joint exercises, the key breakthrough was the agreement signed in July 2005 which facilitates renewed bilateral civilian nuclear cooperation (Mohan, 2007). Once again, this is a key regional power that could have balanced more directly and independently against China, but has rather chosen to align itself or bandwagon with the primary power, the United States, partly because of significant bilateral gains, but fundamentally in order to support the latter's regional order-managing function. 
Recognizing a regional hierarchy and seeing that the lower layers of this hierarchy have become more active since the mid-1970s also allows us to understand why there has been no outright balancing of China by regional states since the 1990s. On the one hand, the US position at the top of the hierarchy has been revived since the mid-1990s, meaning that deterrence against potential Chinese aggression is reliable and in place.14 On the other hand, the aim of regional states is to try to consolidate China's inclusion in the regional hierarchy at the level below that of the United States, not to keep it down or to exclude it. East Asian states recognize that they cannot, without great cost to themselves, contain Chinese growth. But they hope to socialize China by enmeshing it in peaceful regional norms and economic and security institutions. They also know that they can also help to ensure that the capabilities gap between China and the United States remains wide enough to deter a power transition. Because this strategy requires persuading China about the appropriateness of its position in the hierarchy and of the legitimacy of the US position, all East Asian states engage significantly with China, with the small Southeast Asian states refusing openly to ‘choose sides’ between the United States and China. Yet, hierarchical deference continues to explain why regional institutions such as the ASEAN Regional Forum, ASEAN + 3, and East Asian Summit have made limited progress. While the United State has made room for regional multilateral institutions after the end of the Cold War, its hierarchical preponderance also constitutes the regional order to the extent that it cannot comfortably be excluded from any substantive strategic developments. On the part of some lesser states (particularly Japan and Singapore), hierarchical deference is manifested in inclusionary impulses (or at least impulses not to exclude the United States or US proxies) in regional institutions, such as the East Asia Summit in December 2005. Disagreement on this issue with others, including China and Malaysia, has stymied potential progress in these regional institutions (Malik, 2006). 
Finally, conceiving of a US-led East Asian hierarchy amplifies our understanding of how and why the United States–China relationship is now the key to regional order. The vital nature of the Sino-American relationship stems from these two states' structural positions. As discussed earlier, China is the primary second-tier power in the regional hierarchy. However, as Chinese power grows and Chinese activism spreads beyond Asia, the United States is less and less able to see China as merely a regional power – witness the growing concerns about Chinese investment and aid in certain African countries. This causes a disjuncture between US global interests and US regional interests. Regional attempts to engage and socialize China are aimed at mediating its intentions. This process, however, cannot stem Chinese growth, which forms the material basis of US threat perceptions. Apprehensions about the growth of China's power culminates in US fears about the region being ‘lost’ to China, echoing Cold War concerns that transcribed regional defeats into systemic setbacks.15 On the other hand, the US security strategy post-Cold War and post-9/11 have regional manifestations that disadvantage China. The strengthening of US alliances with Japan and Australia; and the deployment of US troops to Central, South, and Southeast Asia all cause China to fear a consolidation of US global hegemony that will first threaten Chinese national security in the regional context and then stymie China's global reach. 
Thus, the key determinants of the East Asian security order relate to two core questions: (i) Can the US be persuaded that China can act as a reliable ‘regional stakeholder’ that will help to buttress regional stability and US global security aims;16 and (ii) can China be convinced that the United States has neither territorial ambitions in Asia nor the desire to encircle China, but will help to promote Chinese development and stability as part of its global security strategy? (Wang, 2005). But, these questions cannot be asked in the abstract, outside the context of negotiation about their relative positions in the regional and global hierarchies. One urgent question for further investigation is how the process of assurance and deference operate at the topmost levels of a hierarchy? When we have two great powers of unequal strength but contesting claims and a closing capabilities gap in the same regional hierarchy, how much scope for negotiation is there, before a reversion to balancing dynamics? This is the main structural dilemma: as long as the United States does not give up its primary position in the Asian regional hierarchy, China is very unlikely to act in a way that will provide comforting answers to the two questions. Yet, the East Asian regional order has been and still is constituted by US hegemony, and to change that could be extremely disruptive and may lead to regional actors acting in highly destabilizing ways. Rapid Japanese remilitarization, armed conflict across the Taiwan Straits, Indian nuclear brinksmanship directed toward Pakistan, or a highly destabilized Korean peninsula are all illustrative of potential regional disruptions. 
5. Conclusion
To construct a coherent account of East Asia's evolving security order, I have suggested that the United States is the central force in constituting regional stability and order. The major patterns of equilibrium and turbulence in the region since 1945 can be explained by the relative stability of the US position at the top of the regional hierarchy, with periods of greatest insecurity being correlated with greatest uncertainty over the American commitment to managing regional order. Furthermore, relationships of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference explain the unusual character of regional order in the post-Cold War era. 
However, the greatest contemporary challenge to East Asian order is the potential conflict between China and the United States over rank ordering in the regional hierarchy, a contest made more potent because of the inter-twining of regional and global security concerns. Ultimately, though, investigating such questions of positionality requires conceptual lenses that go beyond basic material factors because it entails social and normative questions. How can China be brought more into a leadership position, while being persuaded to buy into shared strategic interests and constrain its own in ways that its vision of regional and global security may eventually be reconciled with that of the United States and other regional players? How can Washington be persuaded that its central position in the hierarchy must be ultimately shared in ways yet to be determined? 
The future of the East Asian security order is tightly bound up with the durability of the United States' global leadership and regional domination. At the regional level, the main scenarios of disruption are an outright Chinese challenge to US leadership, or the defection of key US allies, particularly Japan. Recent history suggests, and the preceding analysis has shown, that challenges to or defections from US leadership will come at junctures where it appears that the US commitment to the region is in doubt, which in turn destabilizes the hierarchical order. At the global level, American geopolitical over-extension will be the key cause of change. This is the one factor that could lead to both greater regional and global turbulence, if only by the attendant strategic uncertainly triggering off regional challenges or defections. However, it is notoriously difficult to gauge thresholds of over-extension. More positively, East Asia is a region that has adjusted to previous periods of uncertainty about US primacy. Arguably, the regional consensus over the United States as primary state in a system of benign hierarchy could accommodate a shifting of the strategic burden to US allies like Japan and Australia as a means of systemic preservation. The alternatives that could surface as a result of not doing so would appear to be much worse. 

Second scenario—engagement

Afghanistan is a distraction that keeps us from effectively engaging Asia over global problems
Bajpai, 9/13/10 [Kanti Bajpai, Professor of International Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University (India), Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at both the School of Interdisciplinary Area Studies and the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Oxford (England), “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy,” The Times of India, September 13, 2010, http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/articleshow/6541291.cms?prtpage=1]

The problem with the present US course is that the workings of the US political and economic system, its role in East Asia and issues of the global commons are being neglected. The US political system is now in a logjam, fatally divided between right extremism and a moderate centrism. The economy is heavily in debt (due in part to the costly wars in Iraq and Afghanistan), is growing very slowly, and could be heading towards double-dip recession. No one in the US knows whether the country should spend its way out of trouble or curb the role of the state and stimulate market forces.
Washington has been obsessed with Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Iraq might yet turn out to be moderately stable and governable. The future of Afghanistan and Pakistan is much darker. Yet what is the worst that could happen—a Taliban-led Afghanistan and a radical Pakistan? This could be a formidable combination, but just as likely is that Afghan/Pashtun nationalism and Pakistani/Punjabi nationalism will clash, leaving the two countries in unending contention rather than collusion. Nobody has mastered Afghanistan in the past, and the idea that Pakistan will do so in the years to come is a historical wager that the Pakistani army is likely to lose.
With so much invested in Afghanistan and Pakistan, the Americans are not paying enough attention to East Asia and the global commons. China is steadily on the rise. This is not altogether bad: a better balance of power is stabilising for the international system. But the key is balance. In Asia, the balance will be hard to preserve given China's enormous size and potential. The US could wake up very soon to find that Beijing is the hegemon of Asia. Before Washington reacts, the Chinese, who are driving deep into Africa, will also be ensconced in Latin America.
Finally, the US is ignoring the global commons. Global trade and finance, climate change, resource scarcities, and epidemics and disease jeopardise life on the planet far more insidiously and dangerously than Islamic terrorism. The US is the world's most indispensable power, to use Madeleine Albright's boast, in terms of global collective action. It must find its way back to these grand strategic challenges and not lose the woods for the trees.

Withdrawal opens up space for new diplomatic and economic engagement
Hadar 11/17 (Leon T. Hadar, research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. He is the author of Sandstorm: Policy Failure in the Middle East.
“Obama's Choice: Military Quagmires or Economic Opportunities,” 11/17/10) http://www.huffingtonpost.com/leon-t-hadar/the-choice-military-quagm_b_784630.html

And the diplomat also raised an interesting point: While the Americans are being pulled into the military quagmires in the Middle East, the Chinese with their much less expansive defense budgets can devote their resources on strengthening their economies. "You bleed in Iraq while they build new factories in China," he said. Moreover, the U.S. seemed to be making Afghanistan safe for Chinese investment.
So give our first Pacific President Barack Obama some credit for trying to respond to these Asian concerns by refocusing attention on where the future lies. Obama came to office pledging to withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq and insisting that he would not be pre-occupied with the "war on terror" (and in fact, he refrained from using that term). And he did place U.S. relationship with China, India and the ASEAN on the top of his global agenda. In fact, he seems to be paying much more attention to what the leaders of Singapore and other Southeast Asian nations are telling him and spending less time with the kind of Levantine characters that had spent so much time schmoozing with his predecessor in the Oval Office. Highlighting these new priorities, Obama returned this week to Washington from a 10-day trip to Asia -- including the participation in the meeting of the 20 large economic powers (G-20) in Seoul, South Korea, and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit in Yokohama, Japan -- an excursion that involved the juggling of several geo-strategic and geo-economic goals while stressing his commitment to remain engaged in the Pacific Rim region. Strengthening the economic and diplomatic ties with India: Obama announced important economic deals with India, and his support for India getting a permanent membership in the UN Security Council was a clear sign that the momentum driving the partnership between the world's two largest democracies was accelerating. Hoping to conclude a free trade agreement with South Korea: Obama failed to do that after coming under pressure from the U.S. auto industry that insists on having more access to the Korean market, raising some doubts among trade partners about the White House's commitment to promoting global trade. Stabilizing the Sino-American balance of power by expanding security ties with allies: At a time when more assertive moves involving territorial disputes by a rising China have been creating some unease among its members, Obama's attempt to re-energize U.S. economic and military ties with the members of the ASEAN grouping as well as with Japan and India sent a clear signal to U.S. allies that Washington is going to remain engaged in Asia. Taking another step to improving America's standing in the Muslim World: The U.S. President who had lived and studied in Indonesia from the age six to ten seemed to succeed in winning the hearts of minds of the leaders and people of Indonesia, the most populated Muslim country and a major player in the ASEAN. Trying to win support of other economic powers for the re-balancing of the global financial system: Here Obama gets an "F." He failed to persuade the G-20 leaders to agree on clear timeline and numerical goals for fixing global financial imbalances between surplus-large economies like China, and deficit-large economies like the U.S. Obama was urging the other G-20 participants to focus their attention on the responsibility of the over-valued the Chinese currency for the global economic imbalances. But he found himself in the aftermath of the Federal Reserve's decision to launch a new round of quantitative easing (QE2) under a lot of criticism in Seoul for what was seen as an American effort to put an upward pressure on the U.S. currency. Obama has framed his support for opening new global markets for U.S. trade and investment in Asia in terms of advancing U.S. economic security and prosperity. But he has refrained from trying to mobilize support for the principles of free trade when many Americans blame global trade competition for their economic woes. American business executives are hoping that the increase in the number of Republicans in the new Congress could provide Obama with the votes that he needs in order to get the proposed trade deal with South Korea approved. While Republicans have traditionally been supportive of free-trade, many of the Tea Party members elected to the new Congress regard trade agreements as threat to U.S. sovereignty and will probably be less inclined to approve them. And some pro-free trade Republicans may want to deprive Obama of any major legislative success even if that means denying him the fast-track authority to negotiate new trade deals. But a stalled trade agenda would make it very difficult for Washington to promote U.S. interests in Asia. In fact, one of the center-pieces of U.S. trade goals in the region is the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) initiative, involving at least nine economies and to be concluded by November 2012. The TPP originated in regional free trade agreement among Brunei, Chile, New Zealand and Singapore, but negotiations now involve the United States, Australia, Peru, Malaysia and Vietnam and could eventually include Japan. The Americans want to ensure that the U.S. assumes a leading position in this new Asian free trade arrangement that will be committed to high standard rules on trade liberalization and intellectual property rights for the region. The Chinese, on the other hand, prefer a looser trade arrangement that includes China, Japan, South Korea and the ASEAN -- but excludes the U.S., Australia and New Zealand. Obama may have an opportunity now to market his trade agenda, including the TPP as part of a broader strategic effort to assert U.S. position in Asia, and argue that those in Congress who are refusing to provide his with a "fast-track" authority and are opposed to his trade initiatives are playing directly into the hands of China. In any case, U.S. relationship with China will probably be central to the legislative debate in the new Congress as lawmakers from both parties are expected to demand that Washington retaliate against the Chinese for maintaining an over-valued currency to advance a mercantilist strategy. But it's going to be difficult to decouple this issue from the broader debate about dealing with American economic problems -- including the ballooning deficits. What happened in Seoul suggests that these problems will not be resolved through multilateral institutions, and that lawmakers and policymakers will have to agree on a set of strategies to put the U.S. fiscal house in order. 
And that should include major cuts in the U.S. defense budget, which will require in turn a major reassessment of U.S. policies in the Middle East. Indeed, the huge financial costs of U.S. interventions in the Middle East are one of the two major reasons (the other being the financial costs of the Social Security and Medicare) for the rising federal deficits that are endangering long-term U.S. economic security and putting a downward pressure on the value of the U.S. dollar.
Hence, it will be a Mission Impossible to continue maintaining the current U.S. diplomatic and military interventions in the region -- in Iraq (where political instability and violence could force U.S. presence for many years to come) and Afghanistan (where U.S. troops could remain until 2014 and beyond), with Iran emerging as another potential trouble spot (especially if Israel decides that it needs to use military power to retard that country's nuclear military program) -- while trying to advance a more activist diplomatic and economic strategy in Asia. 
President Obama is hoping to display a more Asia-centric strategy after eight years during which the Bush Administration seemed to investing much of American diplomatic energies in fighting two major wars in the Broader Middle East while placing the Pacific Rim on the policy backburner. And when one considers long-term U.S. strategic and economic interests, the 10-day Asia tour was certainly more productive than a 10-day of Mideast shuttling, that could have included another unpleasant encounter with Israel's "Bibi" Netanyahu - whose government announced its plan to restart building Jewish settlements while Obama was visiting Muslim Indonesia -- or one more long and futile negotiation with, say, Iran's man in Baghdad Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki or with Egypt's aging and ailing military dictator Hosni Mubarak.
But only a major effort to reduce American commitment in the Middle East would ensure that the U.S. will succeed in exerting its influence in Asia and take advantage of the huge economic opportunities there. A choice needs to be made on whether to continue wasting American treasure (and lives) on a policy that doesn't advance U.S. interests (the American economy is not dependent on Mideast oil; and in fact, we end-up paying more for our energy supplies through the costs of U.S. intervention in the Middle East) but ends up harming U.S. security (in the form of anti-American terrorism). Or whether to stop providing free security to corrupt and backward regimes and to mischievous client states and start cutting our deficits and prepare the American economy for the competition for trade and investment in Asia and for a partner ship with the rising global powers there.

Regional Engagement is key to a litany of global problems
Graham and Kelley 9 (Sarah Ellen Graham and John Robert Kelly, Center for International Studies/Annenberg Center for Public Diplomacy, University of Southern California, “US Engagement in East Asia: A Case for Track Two Diplomacy,” 9/3/09) http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1465772&

The United States has a substantial and ongoing interest in promoting peace and stability in Northeast Asia, and track two diplomacy has several applications over the medium and long term that can contribute to this sphere of US interests. In the short term, Washington is committed, both by preserving the regional balance of power and through diplomatic commitments, to ensuring flashpoints on the Korean Peninsula and the Taiwan Strait do not erupt into war. To this end, the United States maintains the forward-posturing of its conventional military forces and the nuclear umbrella under the terms of existing bilateral alliances with Japan and South Korea (ROK) and its tradition of declared support for Taiwan in the event of a Chinese invasion. 
But in acknowledging the ongoing salience of existing strategic alignments, it is also in America’s interest to pursue peaceful relations with China over the medium-term, which entails shaping China’s strategic perceptions as a rising regional and global power. Washington must find ways to discourage the view from Beijing that America regards a strong China as a ‘strategic competitor’ and is seeking to contain it, and at the same encourage China to do the same in relation to its immediate neighbors. China will be the preeminent military power within Asia within 10 to 20 years if it sustains current spending on the modernization and diversification of its military. America should not necessarily fear a militarily strong China, provided that shared Sino-American strategic goals and expectations can be fostered. In working toward this ultimate objective, it is in Washington’s interest to seek possible dialogues and CSBMs with Chinese officials and foreign policy experts in order to better understand Chinese strategic intentions. 
Improving confidence and establishing constructive, ongoing security dialogues on a second track with China could be especially beneficial in enabling Washington to address perhaps its most substantial security challenge in Northeast Asia: the North Korean nuclear weapons program. Pyongyang’s October 9, 2006, nuclear test inadvertently highlighted Beijing and Washington’s shared interest in seeking to prevent additional provocations of this kind when, on the basis of US intelligence, Beijing tried and failed to dissuade the DPRK regime from undertaking the test, and then publicly branded Pyongyang’s move as ‘brazen’ after the event. Since this catalyzing moment, and with Washington continuing to regard China as a broker to Pyongyang, diplomatic avenues toward reaching a workable framework for disarmament on the Peninsula appear promising. In February, 2007, a ‘joint agreement’ issued by the Six Party states affirmed the common goal of a denuclearized Korean Peninsula and signaled the willingness of all parties to work toward the normalization of diplomatic relations where they do not exist. More recently, the August 2007 posting of American experts to oversee the dismantling of parts of the DPRK’s Yongbyon nuclear complex, and the February, 2008 concert of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra in Pyongyang, attest to the Bush administration’s departure from an ‘axis of evil’ hard-line stance toward embracing diplomacy as an instrument for moving forward with the DPRK. The incoming administration will thus inherit some promising and creative diplomatic apertures on the first, second and third tracks that should not be left languishing.
The orchestral event, for example, was a public diplomacy initiative that incorporated an important track two element. Several former US government officials joined the Philharmonic on its visit, including the former US Secretary of Defense William Perry who sat at the concert with DPRK deputy nuclear negotiator Ri Gun. Track two events such as these should be encouraged, as they will help Washington ensure, in line with its short-term objectives in relation to the DPRK, that incremental gains in confidence can be transmitted from the semi-official to the official sphere, giving the 2007 joint agreement its greatest ultimate chance of success. Track two events could also serve as gestures of good faith by Washington that will encourage Beijing, which is often exasperated by Washington’s hard-line stance and maintains highly beneficial economic ties with the DPRK, to remain constructively engaged in the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. Many Northeast Asian analysts currently argue that the US’s ultimate long-term objective- peaceful regime change- will come about only via diplomatic engagement and not through the isolation of the Kim Jong Il regime. Chadwick I. Smith uses the metaphor of ‘strategic entanglement’ to describe the kinds of cross-cutting ties and agreements that will be necessary in order to peacefully draw the Hermit Kingdom into the international community. Track two diplomacy has a substantial role to play in affecting ‘strategic entanglement.’ Non-binding dialogues and events will be instrumental in fostering a political climate conducive to the opening of the DPRK, and for parlaying steps forward in one sphere of relations, such as disarmament, into discussions about advancing ties in others, such as economic investment or cultural relations. The authors of a recent Atlantic Council report on US-DPRK relations note that the establishment of a multilateral regional security framework will also be vital to ensuring the DPRK’s peaceful entry into the regional and international community by providing an environment in which, among other things, the DPRK will be socialized into adopting the security norms of the international community. In this context, our discussion now turns to the Northeast Asian security order at large, to assess the prospects for engaging China in substantive dialogue on the prospects for a multilateral regional security architecture with the US and its regional allies with the goal of engaging the DPRK and other substantive benefits in mind. 
Given the shared goal in moving forward on the DPRK issue, track two dialogues should open between the US and China at the bilateral level as a basis for moving beyond the hedging dynamic currently at play in the bilateral relationship. Here the traditional ‘conflict management’ functions of track two, focusing on confidence building, bringing awareness of shared goals (eg. Denuclearization on the Korean Peninsula) and the normative socialization if elites, are salient. Given the closeness of its existing bilateral security relationships in Asia, Washington can also act as a broker for confidence-building events and dialogues involving China and Japan/ROK, both also deeply suspicious of Chinese military spending and strategic intentions. The US has a long tradition of shared military exercises with both Japan and the ROK, which have hitherto been instrumental in sustaining the alliances. While Chinese participation in these symbolic events is some time away, dialogue concerning the conditions under which military collaboration might take place should be initiated. 
Frameworks such as the NEACD constitute a mechanism through which the kinds of outcomes that support US interests in relation to China and the DPRK can be fostered at a multilateral level. As an existing track two framework, the NEACD already brings Chinese policy-makers into discussions with its neighbors on strategic issues. The Six Party Talks attest the point that at the track one level multilateral security cooperation in Northeast Asia can be sustained, and the routine interactions between diplomats from China, Japan, the ROK and the US should move toward a joint effort to “enhance[e] the potential effectiveness of the Six Party Talks process and, in turn, the viability of any Northeast Asian collective security mechanism.” The permeability between track one and track two diplomacy can be exploited in order to generate the epistemic conditions under which a durable regional security structure, incorporating China, can be planned. An institution akin to a Northeast Asian NATO would deliver significant dividends to the US in the form of coordinating expectations, facilitating cooperative responses to regional security challenges such as regime change in the DPRK, and enhancing strategic burden sharing. The likelihood of future pressures from the US electorate to draw down Washington’s military commitment in Northeast Asia thus adds a further incentive for Washington to sponsor a regional security architecture built out of the NEACD that binds China to common security goals and at the same time assures the security of Japan and ROK. 
A further way in which the next administration should advance US objectives in Northeast Asia is to adopt track two as a strategy for mitigating tensions across the Taiwan Strait. Although Washington adheres to the one-China policy, it also has an interest in seeing Taiwan’s democratic system and open economy remain vibrant, and most importantly in ensuring that any future unification with China will occur peacefully. Consequently, Washington’s current position consists of advocating ‘dual restraint’ and sponsoring multiple channels of dialogue between Taipei and Beijing. As the April, 2007, controversy sparked by Taiwanese objections to being included in the ‘domestic’ leg of China’s Olympic flame relay and China’s repeated blockage of Taiwanese attempts to join the United Nations as ‘Taiwan’ indicate, symbolic and rhetorical factors can easily inflame cross-Strait antagonisms. At the same time, the underlying trend of Taiwan’s domestic politics is toward moderation on the independence issue. The election of the Ma Ying Jeou to the Taiwanese Presidency in May was greeted internationally as a highly promising step for cross-Strait relations. Ma has pledged to improve ties with the US; has Chinese government contacts and signaled a willingness to forge party-to-party contacts between his Party, the KMT, and the CCP; and has shown a commitment to ‘flexible methods’ for improving cross-Strait relations such as commercial ties, tourism, and a more accommodating nomenclature for membership in international organizations. So too, arguably, do trends within China’s own domestic political scene such as its search for international prestige as Olympic host signal that the time is right for a renewed effort tackle the problem. Track two channels provide an opportunity for Washington to encourage collaboration in non-government and even government sectors across the Taiwan Strait. Areas of common interest between China, Taiwan and the US that lie beyond the reunification issue should be identified and leveraged to extend dialogue and cooperation. In particular, events and joint projects in areas such as transnational health protocols, including through the World Health Organization (to which Taiwan has repeatedly sought membership), should be sponsored as a primer for sustained dialogue and political engagement. 
Economy:
The United States has extensive economic interests in Northeast Asia and will inevitably be high on the agenda for the incoming administration’s foreign policy planners. US trade with China, Japan and the ROK is substantial, however as the Armitage and Nye report observes, a regional framework to promote free trade and financial stability remains absent in Northeast Asia, and they argue that it is in US interests to foster multilateral regimes for trade and investment as well as fiscal governance that accord with the norms and institutional principles that America has traditionally endorsed. As is the case in the security realm, promoting an economic order conducive to US interests in Northeast Asia requires regional coordination based on the realization of common interests, the generation of stable expectations, effective persuasion, and the building of trust. Track two diplomacy constitutes an important tool to further all of these objectives in the economic sphere. 
Trade liberalization, for example, remains a thorny issue in Sino-American relations, and must, as C. Fred Bergsten recently argued, be taken up by the US in a persuasive way at the bilateral level. The US trade deficit to China topped $233bn in 2005, and US pressure to increase imports and lower export subsidies have had yet not had much obvious impact on Beijing. Friction has developed over Beijing’s lack of transparency on export subsidies and reluctance to increase the value of the yuan, which has allowed it to accumulate more than $1 trillion in US dollar reserves. Yet the US also depends on trade with China: cheap imports keep prices low and real incomes high, China’s dollar reserves create downward pressures on US interest rates, and possible retaliatory measures by China against US economic demands would seriously impact US consumers. Washington thus has a strong interest in ensuring that policy tensions are resolved and that China takes on international trading norms without seriously destabilizing overall trade patterns. The Strategic Economic Dialogue (SED) between China and the US, established in 2006, constitutes an important step for coordinating trade and monetary policy that can help address these points of tension over time. Its function is to engage “multiple and diverse government officials in both countries to facilitate more inclusive interactions… [seeks] to break down bureaucratic stovepipes that hinder effective communication.” As a track two framework, the SED already serves as a vital supplement to high level interchanges as a forum for debate, transparency, and confidence building. The latter function is particularly significant in the case of the SED: it communicates a message that America “welcome[s] the rise of a confident…and prosperous China.” 
Politics:
The United States has an ongoing interest in promoting democracy and human rights within Northeast Asia. With China’s increasing wherewithal and ability to exercise influence at a regional and global level, the pace of internal reform and the extent to which China becomes a ‘responsible’ stakeholder in the international community are matters of significant interest to Washington. China has traditionally exercised a strong influence on the political norms within the wider region and will thus be decisive in determining whether Northeast Asia and the Asia Pacific region as a whole enjoys a democratic peace dividend. Human rights and democratization are a source of tension within the US-China relationship, however, with charges of hegemonism frequently leveled at Washington for its public support for human rights reforms, media freedom and democratization. 
Against this fractious high-level tension, track two diplomacy should be assessed as a potential conduit for debate on democracy, legal reform and human rights in China. By targeting track two and public diplomacy efforts at provincial governments, educational institutions, and Chinese civil society, Washington has an opportunity to promote democracy and human rights in a less risky and controversial manner than through high-level or public admonishments. In this context, track two functions should be supplemented by enhanced public diplomacy efforts, particularly Fulbright and youth exchanges, journalist training, and the work of non-Government institutions that promote democracy and human rights. In this case, track three initiatives could pave the way for track two events in which Washington can express its support for the democratization of China’s political system.
Track two diplomacy is an instrument through which Washington should promote Northeast Asian regional cooperation to address transnational crime and environmental degradation. Unilateral initiatives can, by definition, only ever pose a partial solution to problems that transcend national borders. Consequently, track two diplomacy can be highly effective in areas of international concern where ongoing regional coordination, transparency and cooperation are needed. Given that Northeast Asia already encompasses several regimes tied to transnational issue areas, the challenge facing the next administration will be to sustain the commitment of parties to these initiatives and ensure they remain effectively embedded in policy channels.
Transnational crime, including drugs smuggling, counterfeiting, maritime piracy and activities linked to terrorism are beginning to be effectively addressed at the regional level in Northeast Asia. US participation, through track one and track two, will help boost initiatives such as the Shanghai International Maritime Forum, established in November 2007 to set standards for maritime security in shipping routes subject to piracy and drug smuggling such as the Malacca Straits. The Forum has served as a track two framework for debate on establishing protocols for oil spills and the transportation of hazardous materials in Asia. The environment will be a crucial determinant of Asia’s future stability and prosperity, and the United States has an interest in ensuring that coordinated and effective solutions that both ensure energy security and address climate change are found. Frameworks such as the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum already serve as a framework to develop a regional response to climate change, and track two diplomacy can supplement these encouraging first steps within an established regime. The Asia Pacific Partnership on Energy and Climate, spearheaded by the US and Australia, and incorporating China, Japan, India and the ROK, represents a positive step toward a coordinated regional response focusing on clean technologies. In ensuring that existing agreements are adhered to, Washington should build confidence through track two mechanisms for monitoring of emissions and sharing of best practices. Washington should harness Beijing’s efforts to brand the 2008 Olympic Games as the ‘green games’ to encourage greater Chinese leadership in environmental initiatives focusing on the Asia Pacific and developing nations. 
As the foregoing analysis has indicated, there are numerous frameworks and opportunities for track two instruments to be recognized and further utilized as part of a renewed US commitment to statecraft in China and Northeast Asia. While contingencies and setbacks on some issues can be expected in a rapidly-changing region like Northeast Asia, enhancing America’s diplomatic instruments on all three tracks would be inexpensive relative to the long-term benefits in rebuilding of American legitimacy and establishing a more stable strategic, economic, and political order in Northeast Asia. To conclude, we make specific policy recommendations based on our analysis, and revisit the track two concept.

East Asian wars go nuclear because of miscalc – engagement solves
Landy 2000 (Jonathon, National Security and International Correspondent, Knight Ridder, March 10, L/N)

Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea, or India and Pakistan are spoiling to fight. But even a minor miscalculation by any of them could destabilize Asia, jolt the global economy, and even start a nuclear war. India, Pakistan, and China all have nuclear weapons, and North Korea may have a few, too. Asia lacks the kinds of organizations, negotiations, and diplomatic relationships that helped keep an uneasy peace for five decades in Cold War Europe.
“Nowhere else on Earth are the stakes as high and relationships so fragile,” said Bates Gill, director of northeast Asian policy studies at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank. “We see the convergence of great power interest overlaid with lingering confrontations with no institutionalized security mechanism in place. There are elements for potential disaster.
In an effort to cool the region’s tempers, President Clinton, Defense Secretary William S. Cohen and National Security Adviser Samuel R. Berger all will hopscotch Asia’s capitals this month.
For America, the stakes could hardly be higher.
There are 100,000 U.S. troops in Asia committed to defending Taiwan, Japan and South Korea, and the United States would instantly become embroiled if Beijing moved against Taiwan or North Korea attacked South Korea. While Washington has no defense commitments to either India or Pakistan, a conflict between the two could end the global taboo against using nuclear weapons and demolish the already shaky international nonproliferation regime.

Economic decline causes nuclear war 
O'Donnell, 9 (Sean, Baltimore Republican Examiner, a graduate student at the University of Baltimore studying law and ethics, B.A. in History from the University of Maryland, a Squad Leader in the Marine Corps Reserve, Will this recession lead to World War III?
February 26, http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III#comments)

Could the current economic crisis affecting this country and the world lead to another world war? The answer may be found by looking back in history. One of the causes of World War I was the economic rivalry that existed between the nations of Europe. In the 19th century France and Great Britain became wealthy through colonialism and the control of foreign resources. This forced other up-and-coming nations (such as Germany) to be more competitive in world trade which led to rivalries and ultimately, to war. After the Great Depression ruined the economies of Europe in the 1930s, fascist movements arose to seek economic and social control. From there fanatics like Hitler and Mussolini took over Germany and Italy and led them both into World War II. With most of North America and Western Europe currently experiencing a recession, will competition for resources and economic rivalries with the Middle East, Asia, or South American cause another world war? Add in nuclear weapons and Islamic fundamentalism and things look even worse. Hopefully the economy gets better before it gets worse and the terrifying possibility of World War III is averted. However sometimes history repeats itself. 

Left unchecked, warming will cause extinction
Sify 2010 – Sydney newspaper citing Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at University of Queensland and Director of the Global Change Institute, and John Bruno, associate professor of Marine Science at UNC (Sify News, “Could unbridled climate changes lead to human extinction?”, http://www.sify.com/news/could-unbridled-climate-changes-lead-to-human-extinction-news-international-kgtrOhdaahc.html, WEA)

The findings of the comprehensive report: 'The impact of climate change on the world's marine ecosystems' emerged from a synthesis of recent research on the world's oceans, carried out by two of the world's leading marine scientists.
One of the authors of the report is Ove Hoegh-Guldberg, professor at The University of Queensland and the director of its Global Change Institute (GCI).
'We may see sudden, unexpected changes that have serious ramifications for the overall well-being of humans, including the capacity of the planet to support people. This is further evidence that we are well on the way to the next great extinction event,' says Hoegh-Guldberg.
'The findings have enormous implications for mankind, particularly if the trend continues. The earth's ocean, which produces half of the oxygen we breathe and absorbs 30 per cent of human-generated carbon dioxide, is equivalent to its heart and lungs. This study shows worrying signs of ill-health. It's as if the earth has been smoking two packs of cigarettes a day!,' he added.
'We are entering a period in which the ocean services upon which humanity depends are undergoing massive change and in some cases beginning to fail', he added.
The 'fundamental and comprehensive' changes to marine life identified in the report include rapidly warming and acidifying oceans, changes in water circulation and expansion of dead zones within the ocean depths.
These are driving major changes in marine ecosystems: less abundant coral reefs, sea grasses and mangroves (important fish nurseries); fewer, smaller fish; a breakdown in food chains; changes in the distribution of marine life; and more frequent diseases and pests among marine organisms.
Study co-author John F Bruno, associate professor in marine science at The University of North Carolina, says greenhouse gas emissions are modifying many physical and geochemical aspects of the planet's oceans, in ways 'unprecedented in nearly a million years'.
'This is causing fundamental and comprehensive changes to the way marine ecosystems function,' Bruno warned, according to a GCI release.
These findings were published in Science

Terrorist attacks causes miscalc and nuclear war
Ayson 10 (Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies: New Zealand, Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies. “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects. Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July 2010, pages 571-593)

Washington's early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country's armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, it is just possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force (and possibly nuclear force) against them. In that situation, the temptations to preempt such actions might grow, although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response. As part of its initial response to the act of nuclear terrorism (as discussed earlier) Washington might decide to order a significant conventional (or nuclear) retaliatory or disarming attack against the leadership of the terrorist group and/or states seen to support that group. Depending on the identity and especially the location of these targets, Russia and/or China might interpret such action as being far too close for their comfort, and potentially as an infringement on their spheres of influence and even on their sovereignty. One far-fetched but perhaps not impossible scenario might stem from a judgment in Washington that some of the main aiders and abetters of the terrorist action resided somewhere such as Chechnya, perhaps in connection with what Allison claims is the “Chechen insurgents' … long-standing interest in all things nuclear.”42 American pressure on that part of the world would almost certainly raise alarms in Moscow that …might require a degree of advanced consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.


CONTENTION THREE IS SOLVENCY

Plan key to stable presence – large footprints are seen as unsustainable, making allies doubt our resolve
Ward 10 (Jon Ward, The Daily Caller, “Influential Think Tank Calls on Obama to ‘own’ Afghan war, give clear long-term troop commitment,” 12/15/10) http://www.cnas.org/node/5437

December 15, 2010 — A new report on Afghanistan says that the U.S. public should prepare to have roughly 30,000 troops there for years to come – conducting “a prolonged low level of unconventional war” – in large part because the terrorist threat from the region is not going away, probably for decades.
“It’s time to recognize that the war in Afghanistan will not end in July 2011, and that the United States and its allies need a new strategy,” says the report from the Center for a New American Security.
CNAS is an influential think tank founded in 2007 by Michelle Flournoy and Kurt Campbell, who are now top government officials in the Obama administration at the Pentagon and the State Department, respectively.
Obama, the report said, has yet to articulate an “‘end game’ in Afghanistan – what the enduring U.S. presence and commitment would look like, or if there would be one at all.”
The report was authored by retired U.S. Army Lt. Gen. David Barno, who commanded U.S. troops in Afghanistan in 2003, and Andrew Exum, a former Army Ranger and civilian adviser to Gen. Stanley McChrystal, who commanded the mission from June 2009 to June 2010.
In fact, President Obama has already in recent weeks moved the deadline for the removal of U.S. troops from July 2011 to December 2014. But Barno and Exum argued that the perception remains in the region that the U.S. is just biding its time until it abandons Afghanistan.
The message received by Afghans at all levels of society from Obama’s December 2009 speech at West Point – where he first announced both a 30,000 troop increase and the July 2011 withdrawal date – was simple, the report said: “The Americans are leaving.”
“The U.S. has to dispel that uncertainty. We have to a commit to a long term strategy and a long term military deployment: not a large one but a sustainable one in Afghanistan,” Barno said. “Today if you’re a Pakistani national security adviser, or you’re an Afghan adviser to President Karzai, you’re operating under the assumption that the U.S. is leaving, and that’s it’s only a matter of time. We have to dispel that notion.”
Their report is clear-eyed both about the rapidly declining level of support among Americans for the war, as well as the dwindling amount of treasure available to fund such expensive military operations, because of the nation’s deficit and debt troubles.
“By 2018, the baseline U.S. defense budget of about $550 billion will be matched by annual interest payments on [the national] debt, which will only grow thereafter,” they note.
But they argue that the impact of a destabilizing exit from Afghanistan is a grave enough threat to U.S. national security to merit a continued investment, albeit a smaller one. There would be a greater ability for terrorist organizations such as Al Qaeda to plan attacks on the U.S., and an increasing risk of Pakistan’s nuclear weaponry falling into the hands of rogue actors if the government there falls.
Barno and Exum’s report states that they are offering “a responsible alternative to an exit strategy that ends the U.S. presence by precipitately turning the war over to the Afghans and … once again abandoning Central Asia as the United States tried in the 1990’s, to devastating effect.”
Obama met with his national security team regarding Afghanistan and Pakistan for two hours on Tuesday, in advance of a speech to the nation on the topic Thursday.
White House officials say the U.S. has made clear that the U.S. is committed to Afghanistan, but not without limits.
“We are committed to a long term partnership with both Afghanistan and Pakistan and have repeatedly express this publicly and privately. But, we are not providing an open ended commitment on troops,” a senior White House official told The Daily Caller.
The official said that Afghan President Hamid Karzai has made clear “he would like to transition to full Afghan control by 2014,” and that the Obama administration and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has about 40,000 troops to the 100,000 American in Afghanistan, are on board with that timeline.
“An integral part of our strategy all along has been the training of the [Afghan National Army] and [Afghan National Police] in order to enable them to take over providing security for their people. Our continued military presence will be determined by conditions on the ground and as the President said at the NATO summit in Lisbon, our aim is to end our combat mission in 2014,” the White House official said.
“The rationale is that by making clear that we will not be there indefinitely, it puts more of a sense of urgency on the Afghans to assume responsibility. This approach worked quite well in Iraq.”
Barno and Exum share the goal of turning over most security throughout the country – a task done now largely by regular U.S. military and NATO troops – to Afghans. But they argued Tuesday that in order for this hand over to happen, the Afghan people and society need to have confidence that the U.S. will be a partner for many years to come.
Only a clear promise of boots on the ground – Barno and Exum argue for a force primarily comprised of special operations forces to conduct surgical strikes – that is “for many years to come” will give this confidence.
“The psychological impact of this on the government of Pakistan, the government of Afghanistan, and on the Taliban – when they look at what their future is going to look like – could be quite substantial,” Barno said at a forum hosted by the Newseum.
Exum added: “What we need the Afghan people to do, we at least need them to send their sons into the Afghan national security forces. We’ve got to convince the Afghan people to make a choice … toward the government of Afghanistan.”
“You do that with a long term commitment to Afghanistan.”

Lighter footprint solves. No Taliban takeover or terrorism
ASG 10 —The Afghanistan Study Group, an ad hoc group of public policy practitioners, former U.S. government officials, academics, business representatives, policy-concerned activists and association leaders concerned with the Obama administration’s policy course in Afghanistan, 8/16/10, (“What’s Wrong With The Current U.S Strategy,” A New Way Forward: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”) http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/2010/08/13/the-way-fo-rward-a-five-point-approach/

Second, a U.S. drawdown would not make Al Qaeda substantially more lethal. In order for events in Afghanistan to enhance Al Qaeda’s ability to threaten the U.S. homeland, three separate steps must occur: 1) the Taliban must seize control of a substantial portion of the country, 2) Al Qaeda must relocate there in strength, and 3) it must build facilities in this new “safe haven” that will allow it to plan and train more effectively than it can today.
Each of these three steps is unlikely, however, and the chances of all three together are very remote. For starters, a Taliban victory is unlikely even if the United States reduces its military commitment. The Taliban is a rural insurgency rooted primarily in Afghanistan’s Pashtun population, and its seizure of power in the 1990s was due to unusual circumstances that no longer exist and are unlikely to be repeated. Non-Pashtun Afghans now have ample experience with Taliban rule, and they are bound to resist any Taliban efforts to regain control in Kabul. Moreover, the U.S. military presence has helped the Taliban rally its forces, meaning that the group may well fragment and suffer a loss of momentum in the face of a U.S. drawdown. Surveys suggest that popular support for the Taliban among Afghans is in the single digits.
Even with significantly reduced troop levels, we can build a credible defense against a Taliban takeover through support for local security forces, strategic use of airpower, and deployment in key cities without committing ourselves to a costly and counterproductive COIN (counterinsurgency) campaign in the south. And if power-sharing and political inclusion is negotiated, the relevance of the Taliban as an alternative to Kabul is likely to decline.
And even if the Taliban were to regain power in some of Afghanistan, it would likely not invite Al Qaeda to re-establish a significant presence there. The Taliban may be reluctant to risk renewed U.S. attacks by welcoming Al Qaeda onto Afghan soil. Bin Laden and his associates may well prefer to remain in Pakistan, which is both safer and a better base from which to operate than isolated and land-locked Afghanistan.
Most importantly, no matter what happens in Afghanistan in the future, Al Qaeda will not be able to build large training camps of the sort it employed prior to the 9/11 attacks. Simply put, the U.S. would remain vigilant and could use air power to eliminate any Al Qaeda facility that the group might attempt to establish. Bin Laden and his associates will likely have to remain in hiding for the rest of their lives, which means Al Qaeda will have to rely on clandestine cells instead of large encampments. Covert cells can be located virtually anywhere, which is why the outcome in Afghanistan is not critical to addressing the threat from Al Qaeda.
In short, a complete (and unlikely) victory in Afghanistan and the dismantling of the Taliban would not make Al Qaeda disappear; indeed, it would probably have no appreciable effect on Al Qaeda. At the same time, dramatically scaling back U.S. military engagement will not significantly increase the threat from Al Qaeda.
Third, the current U.S. military effort is helping fuel the very insurgency we are attempting to defeat. An expanded U.S. presence has reinforced perceptions of the United States as a foreign occupier.
Religious extremists have used the U.S. presence as an effective recruiting tool for their cause. Efforts to limit civilian casualties and other forms of collateral damage have been only partially successful, leading additional Afghans to take up arms against us.
Fourth, the expanded U.S. presence and a more energetic counterinsurgency effort in Afghanistan and Pakistan have reinforced a tacit alliance among different extremist groups whose agendas are not identical. The Taliban is itself a loose coalition of Pashtuns, many of whom are motivated by local concerns rather than by any deep commitment to global jihad. Al Qaeda, by contrast, is a global network of radical Islamists seeking to topple governments throughout the Middle East. The “Pakistani Taliban” are a separate alliance of different Islamist groups challenging the authority of the Pakistani state. The Haqqani network in Waziristan is led by a local warlord who is strongly opposed to foreign interference but reportedly also a sometime ally of Pakistan’s Inter-Service Intelligence agency (ISI).
Although cooperation among these disparate groups has increased in recent years, this development is largely a reaction to the increased foreign presence in the region and our efforts to convince the Pakistani government to take more aggressive action against these groups. Thus, our current strategy is helping drive these groups together, when our real aim should be to drive wedges between as many of them as possible and to win over those who do not share Al Qaeda’s anti-Western agenda or its commitment to global jihad.
Fifth, keeping 100,000-plus U.S. troops in yet another Muslim country lends credence to jihadi propaganda about America’s alleged hostility to Islam. Their presence may actually be increasing the overall danger that we face back home. Anger at U.S. military action in the Af/Pak theater inspired Faisal Shahzad, a U.S. citizen, to attempt an unsuccessful car bomb attack in Times Square, and other home-grown terrorists appear to have been inspired by similar motivations.


===1ac NDCA=== 

Everything the same, we just added this extra card:

Governance and Pakistan aren’t improving, this dooms the war effort
Cohen 4/7 (Michael Cohen, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project, serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, served in the U.S. Department of State, former Senior Vice President at the strategic communications firm of Robinson, Lerer and Montgomery, bachelor’s degree in international relations from American University and a master’s degree from Columbia University, “Further Confirmation That Our Strategy in Afghanistan is Not Working,” 4/7/11)

One of the key elements about US policy in Afghanistan that nearly all sides seem to agree upon is that without success in standing up the Afghan government and without success in getting Pakistan to turn on the Afghan Taliban safe havens in their country - the mission will likely fail.
With that as a starting point, it makes reading the latest White House report on Afghanistan/Pakistan acutely depressing reading. To be sure there is very little here that can be considered good news - for every possible step forward, there are one or two steps back. And what's more there is very little indication that the fledgling progress we have made is sustainable - either in Afghanistan or Pakistan.
But on the issue of safe havens and the performance of the Karzai government it is particularly distressing - and speaks to the failures of the current strategy.
First on safe havens. Much of the media focus of the report is on the challenges facing Pakistan in going after Pakistan Taliban militants. But from the perspective of US policy in Afghanistan, this is a sideshow - the real issue is the sanctuaries and here the report has nothing good to say:
The denial of extremist safe havens in Pakistan cannot be achieved through military means alone, but must continue to be advanced by effective development strategies.
Actually let me revise that statement - the report has basically nothing to say on this issue (as the above sentence suggests). There is a great deal about how the US is laying the foundation for a strategic partnership with Pakistan "based on mutual respect and trust" but no sense of when or even whether the Pakistani government will shift their strategic calculus against the Afghan Taliban. And as press reporting suggests there has been little progress on this front. Until there is, military success in Afghanistan will be hard to achieve and even harder to sustain. That the report basically punts on that question is telling.
How about the Karzai government? Here the report is more explicit, regrettably so. From July to December 2010, the report says that progress on building the capacity of the Afghan government is "static" - which basically means very little improvement at all. Indeed, the report notes that on the sub-national level (which is more critical to the US war-fighting effort than the national level) progress is particularly non-existent. Recruiting for district or provincial offices remains poor, the Afghan government has shown little inclination to take on corruption - and while security improvements are cited, the report does note that the security situation in the north has actually worsened. (Of course, if one wants to draw a verdict on Hamid Karzai they can also consider his appalling behavior that led indirectly to the horrific killings of UN workers in Mazar-i-Sharif last week.)
The best the report can point to is "modest" improvements in training of the ANSF, but the force is still deeply dependent on ISAF forces to conduct operations and attrition rates, while better are still high.
In short, there is very little positive to report - but in the areas most crucial to the current strategy, progress is basically non-existent or fledgling. Now I have a feeling that an email will be headed my way soon after I publish this post that talks about security improvements as a first step forward and strengtening Afghan capacity as the next step. But to be honest, I'm not seeing any reason to believe that this second is possible (it's always been the most intractable element of our strategy and one where US influence is the most limited).
This question this report should raise is how much longer do we try to do the impossible (get Pakistan to adjust its strategic calculus vis-a-vis the Taliban and the Karzai government to be something they aren't) before we shift our strategy to what actually is possible?




===2ac T combat troops=== 
CI: Presence is deployed forces for any operation
GAO, 1– Government Accounting Office (MILITARY READINESS Effects of a U.S. Military Presence in Europe on Mobility Requirements, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA396948]])
The Department of Defense defines … Force air base support sets.

A substantial reduction requires a 50% decrease
Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92 (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis)
TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT MILITARY … and moved to another installation.

===2ac Bilateral treaty CP=== 

Training fails – corruption and dependence 
Innocent and Carpenter, 9 - foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,”[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf]])
That means the United States … across tribal and ethnic lines.

The US pursues population protection now, all the reasons COIN fails from the case apply – and it increases the effectiveness of Taliban attacks
Etzioni, 10- professor of international relations at George Washington University (Amitai, “Unshackle the Troops,” The New Republic, 8/12, lexis)

For the past … of communication aimed at Afghans.

===2ac Withdrawal DA=== 

No link and turn - Even if there’s a short-term decline in US credibility, withdrawal is on balance better for US leadership
Innocent and Carpenter, 9- foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)
Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global Status
Former national security adviser Henry… __undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal__.

Overstretch outweighs - credibility is meaningless compared to actual strategic position 
Bonner, 10- a former foreign correspondent and investigative reporter for the New York Times, (Raymond, The Altantic, “On Afghanistan, Asking the Wrong Question,” 7/30, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2010/07/on-afghanistan-asking-the-wrong-question/60646/]]
It was a compelling argument, made … , with the most credible military.

High op tempos collapse deterrence 
PERRY AND FLOURNOY, 6- former secretary of defense and senior fellow at CSIS, (William J Perry, Former Secretary of Defense, and Michele A. Flournoy, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, National Defense, “The US Military: Under Strain And At Risk,” – National Defense, May, http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/issues/2006/may/TheU.S.MilitaryUnder.htm)
If recruiting trends do not … __our ability to__ __deter aggression____.__

Primacy is the lynchpin of Asian stability—decline risks war, deterrence breakdowns, and prolif 
Lieber 2005 – PhD from Harvard, Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown, former consultant to the State Department and for National Intelligence Estimates (Robert, “The American Era”, page 158, WEA)
Parallels between America’s role in … as a true major power competitor.

Decline sets up multiple theaters for nuclear war in Asia 
Brezezinksi ‘04 (Zbigniew-, Counselor @ CSIS, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership,” P. 110-111; Jacob)
Ultimately, war or peace in … then set off an explosion.


===2ac Obama good=== 


Turn – current war will force Dems to inevitably abandon Obama 
Donnelly 09- staff writer for CQ weekly (John M. Donnelly, Nov. 23, 2009 “The Costs of Buying Time” http://library.cqpress.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/cqweekly/document.php?id=weeklyreport111-000003253119&type=hitlist&num=0&) 
Even as President Obama contemplates … the 4,434 wounded throughout the war. 

Abandoning COIN is popular with Democrats and Republicans 
Washington Times 09 (Kim R. Holmes SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES, 8/20/09, "What's the Big Idea: Obama facing the tests of war in Afghanistan amid elections", lexis) 
All this is true. But … … his own party, he may not find them eager allies. 

No link – CT isn’t full withdrawal – obama can spin 
IISS 10 – International Institute for Strategic Studies, (April, “Obama's presidency bolstered by political success” http://www.iiss.org/publications/strategic-comments/past-issues/volume-16-2010/april/obamas-presidency-bolstered-by-political-success/ ) 
As a consequence, the US has … until then to take stock. 



===2ac CO2 DA=== 
Warming kills food
Strom 7- Robert Strom, Professor Emeritus of planetary sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona, (studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center, a NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, “Hot House”, SpringerLink, p. 211-216)
THE future consequences of global … __all their ramifications for civilization__.

Fertilization effect is not enough to offset the negative consequences of warming 
Stern 7- Nicholas Stern—Head of the British Government Economic Service—2007
(Former Head Economist for the World Bank, I.G. Patel Chair at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review”, The report of a team commissioned by the British Government to study the economics of climate change led by Siobhan Peters, Head of G8 and International Climate Change Policy Unit, Cambridge University Press, p. 70)
Carbon dioxide is a basic building … __production are reached more often__.

===2ac SO2 DA=== 

SO2’s cool factor is small and just a model fudge factor---AND it increases warming 
World Climate Report 5, Change of Direction: Do SO2 Emissions Lead to Warming?, April 22, 2005, http://www.worldclimatereport.com/index.php/2005/04/22/change-of-direction-do-so2-emissions-lead-to-warming/)
__Many scientists believe that sulfur …__ modest global warming to date.

SO2 no longer effectively cools the earth 
Wild et al. 2007 (Wild, M., A. Ohmura, and K. Makowski (2007), Impact of global dimming and brightening on global warming, Geophys. Res. Let http://www.agu.org/pubs/crossref/2007/2006GL028031.shtml)
Speculations on the impact of … solar dimming within this period.

Warming causes massive sea level rise, destroys civilization 
Hansen 6 (James, Director @ NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and Adjunct Prof. Earth and Env. Sci. @ Columbia U. Earth Institute, New York Review of Books, “THE THREAT TO THE PLANET”, http://pubs.giss.nasa.gov/docs/2006/2006_Hansen.pdf)




===2ac Method/predictions K=== 

No prior questions—focus on critical theory makes it impossible to describe the world and act
David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7

Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[a] frenzy for words like “epistemology” and “ontology” often signals this philosophical turn’, although he goes on to comment that these terms are often used loosely.4 However, loosely deployed or not, it is clear that debates concerning ontology and epistemology play a central role in the contemporary IR theory wars. In one respect, this is unsurprising since it is a characteristic feature of the social sciences that periods of disciplinary disorientation involve recourse to reflection on the philosophical commitments of different theoretical approaches, and there is no doubt that such reflection can play a valuable role in making explicit the commitments that characterise (and help individuate) diverse theoretical positions. Yet, such a philosophical turn is not without its dangers and I will briefly mention three before turning t
o consider a confusion that has, I will suggest, helped to promote the IR theory wars by motivating this philosophical turn. The first danger with the philosophical turn is that it has an inbuilt tendency to prioritise issues of ontology and epistemology over explanatory and/or interpretive power as if the latter two were merely a simple function of the former. But while the explanatory and/or interpretive power of a theoretical account is not wholly independent of its ontological and/or epistemological commitments (otherwise criticism of these features would not be a criticism that had any value), it is by no means clear that it is, in contrast, wholly dependent on these philosophical commitme
nts. Thus, for example, one need not be sympathetic to rational choice theory to recognise that it can provide powerful accounts of certain kinds of problems, such as the tragedy of the commons in which dilemmas of collective action are foregrounded. It may, of course, be the case that the advocates of rational choice theory cannot give a good account of why this type of theory is powerful in accounting for this class of problems (i.e., how it is that the relevant actors come to exhibit features in these circumstances that approximate the assumptions of rational choice theory) and, if this is the case, it is a philosophical weakness—but this does not undermine the point that, for a certain class of problems, rational choice theory may provide the best account available to us. In other words, while the critical judgement of theoretical accounts in terms of their ontological and/or epistemological sophistication is one kind of critical judgement, it is not the only or even necessarily the most important kind. The second danger run by the philosophical turn is that because prioritisation of ontology and epistemology promotes theory-construction from philosophical first principles, it cultivates a theory-driven rather than problem-driven approach to IR. Paraphrasing Ian Shapiro, the point can be put like this: since it is the case that there is always a plurality of possible true descriptions of a given action, event or phenomenon, the challenge is to decide which is the most apt in terms of getting a perspicuous grip on the action, event or phenomenon in question given the purposes of the inquiry; yet, from this standpoint, ‘theory-driven work is part of a reductionist program’ in that it ‘dictates always opting for the description that calls for the explanation that flows from the preferred model or theory’.5 The justification offered for this strategy rests on the mistaken belief that it is necessary for social science because general explanations are required to characterise the classes of phenomena studied in similar terms. However, as Shapiro points out, this is to misunderstand the enterprise of science since ‘whether there are general explanations for classes of phenomena is a question for social-scientific inquiry, not to be prejudged before conducting that inquiry’.6 Moreover, this strategy easily slips into the promotion of the pursuit of generality over that of empirical validity. The third danger is that the preceding two combine to encourage the formation of a particular image of disciplinary debate in IR—what might be called (only slightly tongue in cheek) ‘the Highlander view’—namely, an image of warring theoretical approaches with each, despite occasional temporary tactical alliances, dedicated to the strategic achievement of sovereignty over the disciplinary field. It encourages this view because the turn to, and prioritisation of, ontology and epistemology stimulates the idea that there can only be one theoretical approach which gets things right, namely, the theoretical approach that gets its ontology and epistemology right. This image feeds back into IR exacerbating the first and second dangers, and so a potentially vicious circle arises.

The academy is too focused on method at the expense of policy – this devastates education
Jentleson, 02 (Bruce, Director of the Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy and Professor of Public Policy and Political Science at Duke University, International Security 26.4 (2002) 169-183, projectmuse)

Overall, international relations and political science as academic disciplines have limited answers to offer to the questions posed by September 11. Before addressing how this can be rectified, it is important to ask why this is the case. The profession-based incentive structure that defines the culture of the discipline explains a lot. At every level it tilts against policy relevance.
Graduate Programs
Political science graduate programs convey early on to Ph.D. students that the track they have chosen is more about the discipline than it is about the world. Disciplinary training is of course essential. Graduate students need to be versed in and able to contribute to the major theoretical debates, but they also need to know about policy, its key debates, its driving ideas, and its historical and contemporary contexts. The current balance is too skewed. Policy is treated too often as just a means to the ends of understanding theory, without also giving due emphasis to theory as a means to the ends of understanding policy. Graduate curriculums are more likely to include courses on rational choice and game theory than on policy areas—be they regional, functional, or thematic. Dominant approaches to methodology give short shrift to policy analysis, to the analytic skills for addressing questions of strategy and for assessing policy options. It is one thing to train Ph.D.s primarily for academic careers; it is another to have this be virtually the only purpose of most major international relations/political science Ph.D. programs.

Predictions are good enough to act on. Their critique sets the bar too high
Chernoff 9 (Fred, Prof. IR and Dir. IR – Colgate U., European Journal of International Relations, “Conventionalism as an Adequate Basis for Policy-Relevant IR Theory”, 15:1, Sage)

For these and other reasons, many social theorists and social scientists have come to the conclusion that prediction is impossible. Well-known IR reflexivists like Rick Ashley, Robert Cox, Rob Walker and Alex Wendt have attacked naturalism by emphasizing the interpretive nature of social theory. Ashley is explicit in his critique of prediction, as is Cox, who says quite simply, ‘It is impossible to predict the future’ (Ashley, 1986: 283; Cox, 1987: 139, cf. also 1987: 393). More recently, Heikki Patomäki has argued that ‘qualitative changes and emergence are possible, but predictions are not’ defective and that the latter two presuppose an unjustifiably narrow notion of ‘prediction’.14 A determined prediction sceptic may continue to hold that there is too great a degree of complexity of social relationships (which comprise ‘open systems’) to allow any prediction whatsoever. Two very simple examples may circumscribe and help to refute a radical variety of scepticism. First, we all make reliable social predictions and do so with great frequency. We can predict with high probability that a spouse, child or parent will react to certain well-known stimuli that we might supply, based on extensive past experience. More to the point of IR prediction – scepticism, we can imagine a young child in the UK who (perhaps at the cinema) (1) picks up a bit of 19th-century British imperial lore thus gaining a sense of the power of the crown, without knowing anything of current balances of power, (2) hears some stories about the US–UK invasion of Iraq in the context of the aim of advancing democracy, and (3) hears a bit about communist China and democratic Taiwan. Although the specific term ‘preventative strike’ might not enter into her lexicon, it is possible to imagine the child, whose knowledge is thus limited, thinking that if democratic Taiwan were threatened by China, the UK would (possibly or probably) launch a strike on China to protect it, much as the UK had done to help democracy in Iraq. In contrast to the child, readers of this journal and scholars who study the world more thoroughly have factual information (e.g. about the relative military and economic capabilities of the UK and China) and hold some cause-and-effect principles (such as that states do not usually initiate actions that leaders understand will have an extremely high probability of undercutting their power with almost no chances of success). Anyone who has adequate knowledge of world politics would predict that the UK will not launch a preventive attack against China. In the real world, China knows that for the next decade and well beyond the UK will not intervene militarily in its affairs. While Chinese leaders have to plan for many likely — and even a few somewhat unlikely — future possibilities, they do not have to plan for various implausible contingencies: they do not have to structure forces geared to defend against specifically UK forces and do not have to conduct diplomacy with the UK in a way that would be required if such an attack were a real possibility. Any rational decision-maker in China may use some cause-and-effect (probabilistic) principles along with knowledge of specific facts relating to the Sino-British relationship to predict (P2) that the UK will not land its forces on Chinese territory — even in the event of a war over Taiwan (that is, the probability is very close to zero). The statement P2 qualifies as a prediction based on DEF above and counts as knowledge for Chinese political and military decision-makers. A Chinese diplomat or military planner who would deny that theory-based prediction would have no basis to rule out extremely implausible predictions like P2 and would thus have to prepare for such unlikely contingencies as UK action against China. A reflexivist theorist sceptical of ‘prediction’ in IR might argue that the China example distorts the notion by using a trivial prediction and treating it as a meaningful one. But the critic’s temptation to dismiss its value stems precisely from the fact that it is so obviously true. The value to China of knowing that the UK is not a military threat is significant. The fact that, under current conditions, any plausible cause-and-effect understanding of IR that one might adopt would yield P2, that the ‘UK will not attack China’, does not diminish the value to China of knowing the UK does not pose a military threat. A critic might also argue that DEF and the China example allow non-scientific claims to count as predictions. But we note that while physics and chemistry offer precise ‘point predictions’, other natural sciences, such as seismology, genetics or meteorology, produce predictions that are often much less specific; that is, they describe the predicted ‘events’ in broader time frame and typically in probabilistic terms. We often find predictions about the probability, for example, of a seismic event in the form ‘some time in the next three years’ rather than ‘two years from next Monday at 11:17 am’. DEF includes approximate and probabilistic propositions as predictions and is thus able to catagorize as a prediction the former sort of statement, which is of a type that is often of great value to policy-makers. With the help of these ‘non-point predictions’ coming from the natural and the social sciences, leaders are able to choose the courses of action (e.g. more stringent earthquake-safety building codes, or procuring an additional carrier battle group) that are most likely to accomplish the leaders’ desired ends. So while ‘point predictions’ are not what political leaders require in most decision-making situations, critics of IR predictiveness often attack the predictive capacity of IR theory for its inability to deliver them. The critics thus commit the straw man fallacy by requiring a sort of prediction in IR (1) that few, if any, theorists claim to be able to offer, (2) that are not required by policy-makers for theory-based predictions to be valuable, and (3) that are not possible even in some natural sciences.15 The range of theorists included in ‘reflexivists’ here is very wide and it is possible to dissent from some of the general descriptions. From the point of view of the central argument of this article, there are two important features that should be rendered accurately. One is that reflexivists reject explanation–prediction symmetry, which allows them to pursue causal (or constitutive) explanation without any commitment to prediction. The second is that almost all share clear opposition to predictive social science.16 The reflexivist commitment to both of these conclusions should be evident from the foregoing discussion.

Chaos is not inevitable—policies have been enormously effective and debate improves them
Kurasawa, 04 (Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004). 

Moreover, keeping in mind the sobering lessons of the past century cannot but make us wary about humankind’s supposedly unlimited ability for problemsolving or discovering solutions in time to avert calamities. In fact, the historical track-record of last-minute, technical ‘quick-fixes’ is hardly reassuring. What’s more, most of the serious perils that we face today (e.g., nuclear waste, climate change, global terrorism, genocide and civil war) demand complex, sustained, long-term strategies of planning, coordination, and execution. On the other hand, an examination of fatalism makes it readily apparent that the idea that humankind is doomed from the outset puts off any attempt to minimize risks for our successors, essentially condemning them to face cataclysms unprepared. An a priori pessimism is also unsustainable given the fact that long-term preventive action has had (and will continue to have) appreciable beneficial effects; the examples of medical research, the welfare state, international humanitarian law, as well as strict environmental regulations in some countries stand out among many others. The evaluative framework proposed above should not be restricted to the critique of misappropriations of farsightedness, since it can equally support public deliberation with a reconstructive intent, that is, democratic discussion and debate about a future that human beings would freely self-determine. Inverting Foucault’s Nietzschean metaphor, we can think of genealogies of the future that could perform a farsighted mapping out of the possible ways of organizing social life. They are, in other words, interventions into the present intended to facilitate global civil society’s participation in shaping the field of possibilities of what is to come. Once competing dystopian visions are filtered out on the basis of their analytical credibility, ethical commitments, and political underpinnings and consequences, groups and individuals can assess the remaining legitimate catastrophic scenarios through the lens of genealogical mappings of the future. Hence, our first duty consists in addressing the present-day causes of eventual perils, ensuring that the paths we decide upon do not contract the range of options available for our posterity.42 Just as importantly, the practice of genealogically inspired farsightedness nurtures the project of an autonomous future, one that is socially self-instituting. In so doing, we can acknowledge that the future is a human creation instead of the product of metaphysical and extra-social forces (god, nature, destiny, etc.), and begin to reflect upon and deliberate about the kind of legacy we want to leave for those who will follow us. Participants in global civil society can then take – and in many instances have already taken – a further step by committing themselves to socio-political struggles forging a world order that, aside from not jeopardizing human and environmental survival, is designed to rectify the sources of transnational injustice that will continue to inflict needless suffering upon future generations if left unchallenged. 

Turn—rejecting our threat predictions makes them inevitable and causes ideology fill in
Fitzsimmons, 07 (Michael, Washington DC defense analyst, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06-07, online)

But handling even this weaker form of uncertainty is still quite challeng- ing. If not sufficiently bounded, a high degree of variability in planning factors can exact a significant price on planning. The complexity presented by great variability strains the cognitive abilities of even the most sophisticated decisionmakers.15 And even a robust decision-making process sensitive to cognitive limitations necessarily sacrifices depth of analysis for breadth as variability and complexity grows. It should follow, then, that in planning under conditions of risk, variability in strategic calculation should be carefully tailored to available analytic and decision processes. Why is this important? What harm can an imbalance between complexity and cognitive or analytic capacity in strategic planning bring? Stated simply, where analysis is silent or inadequate, the personal beliefs of decision-makers fill the void. As political scientist Richard Betts found in a study of strategic sur- prise, in ‘an environment that lacks clarity, abounds with conflicting data, and allows no time for rigorous assessment of sources and validity, ambiguity allows intuition or wishfulness to drive interpretation ... The greater the ambiguity, the greater the impact of preconceptions.’16 The decision-making environment that Betts describes here is one of political-military crisis, not long-term strategic planning. But a strategist who sees uncertainty as the central fact of his environ- ment brings upon himself some of the pathologies of crisis decision-making. He invites ambiguity, takes conflicting data for granted and substitutes a priori scepticism about the validity of prediction for time pressure as a rationale for discounting the importance of analytic rigour. It is important not to exaggerate the extent to which data and ‘rigorous assessment’ can illuminate strategic choices. Ambiguity is a fact of life, and scepticism of analysis is necessary. Accordingly, the intuition and judgement of decision-makers will always be vital to strategy, and attempting to subordinate those factors to some formulaic, deterministic decision-making model would be both undesirable and unrealistic. All the same, there is danger in the opposite extreme as well. Without careful analysis of what is relatively likely and what is relatively unlikely, what will be the possible bases for strategic choices? A decision-maker with no faith in prediction is left with little more than a set of worst-case scenarios and his existing beliefs about the world to confront the choices before him. Those beliefs may be more or less well founded, but if they are not made explicit and subject to analysis and debate regarding their application to particular strategic contexts, they remain only beliefs and premises, rather than rational judgements. Even at their best, such decisions are likely to be poorly understood by the organisations charged with their implementation. At their worst, such decisions may be poorly understood by the decision-makers themselves. 

You can’t solve the root cause of war – maintaining deterrence key to empirically reduce its likelihood
Moore 4 – Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia, 7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, pages 41-2.

If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic aggressor and an absence of effective deterrence, what is the role of the many traditional "causes" of war? Past, and many contemporary, theories of war have focused on the role of specific disputes between nations, ethnic and religious differences, arms races, poverty or social injustice, competition for resources, incidents and accidents, greed, fear, and perceptions of "honor," or many other such factors. Such factors may well play a role in motivating aggression or in serving as a means for generating fear and manipulating public opinion. The reality, however, is that while some of these may have more potential to contribute to war than others, there may well be an infinite set of motivating factors, or human wants, motivating aggression. It is not the independent existence of such motivating factors for war but rather the circumstances permitting or encouraging high risk decisions leading to war that is the key to more effectively controlling war. And the same may also be true of democide. The early focus in the Rwanda slaughter on "ethnic conflict," as though Hutus and Tutsis had begun to slaughter each other through spontaneous combustion, distracted our attention from the reality that a nondemocratic Hutu regime had carefully planned and orchestrated a genocide against Rwandan Tutsis as well as its Hutu opponents.I1 Certainly if we were able to press a button and end poverty, racism, religious intolerance, injustice, and endless disputes, we would want to do so. Indeed, democratic governments must remain committed to policies that will produce a better world by all measures of human progress. The broader achievement of democracy and the rule of law will itself assist in this progress. No one, however, has yet been able to demonstrate the kind of robust correlation with any of these "traditional" causes of war as is reflected in the "democratic peace." Further, given the difficulties in overcoming many of these social problems, an approach to war exclusively dependent on their solution may be to doom us to war for generations to come.
A useful framework in thinking about the war puzzle is provided in the Kenneth Waltz classic Man, the State, and War,12 first published in 1954 for the Institute of War and Peace Studies, in which he notes that previous thinkers about the causes of war have tended to assign responsibility at one of the three levels of individual psychology, the nature of the state, or the nature of the international system. This tripartite level of analysis has subsequently been widely copied in the study of international relations. We might summarize my analysis in this classical construct by suggesting that the most critical variables are the second and third levels, or "images," of analysis. Government structures, at the second level, seem to play a central role in levels of aggressiveness in high risk behavior leading to major war. In this, the "democratic peace" is an essential insight. The third level of analysis, the international system, or totality of external incentives influencing the decision for war, is also critical when government structures do not restrain such high risk behavior on their own. Indeed, nondemocratic systems may not only fail to constrain inappropriate aggressive behavior, they may even massively enable it by placing the resources of the state at the disposal of a ruthless regime elite. It is not that the first level of analysis, the individual, is unimportant. I have already argued that it is important in elite perceptions about the permissibility and feasibility of force and resultant necessary levels of deterrence. It is, instead, that the second level of analysis, government structures, may be a powerful proxy for settings bringing to power those who may be disposed to aggressive military adventures and in creating incentive structures predisposing to high risk behavior. We should keep before us, however, the possibility, indeed probability, that a war/peace model focused on democracy and deterrence might be further usefully refined by adding psychological profiles of particular leaders, and systematically applying other findings of cognitive psychology, as we assess the likelihood of aggression and levels of necessary deterrence in context. A post-Gulf War edition of Gordon Craig and Alexander George's classic, Force and Statecraft,13 presents an important discussion of the inability of the pre-war coercive diplomacy effort to get Saddam Hussein to withdraw from Kuwait without war.14 This discussion, by two of the recognized masters of deterrence theory, reminds us of the many important psychological and other factors operating at the individual level of analysis that may well have been crucial in that failure to get Hussein to withdraw without war. We should also remember that nondemocracies can have differences between leaders as to the necessity or usefulness of force and, as Marcus Aurelius should remind us, not all absolute leaders are Caligulas or Neros. Further, the history of ancient Egypt reminds us that not all Pharaohs were disposed to make war on their neighbors. Despite the importance of individual leaders, however, we should also keep before us that major international war is predominantly and critically an interaction, or synergy, of certain characteristics at levels two and three, specifically an absence of democracy and an absence of effective deterrence.
Yet another way to conceptualize the importance of democracy and deterrence in war avoidance is to note that each in its own way internalizes the costs to decision elites of engaging in high risk aggressive behavior. Democracy internalizes these costs in a variety of ways including displeasure of the electorate at having war imposed upon it by its own government. And deterrence either prevents achievement of the objective altogether or imposes punishing costs making the gamble not worth the risk.I5
VI
Testing the Hypothesis
Theory without truth is but costly entertainment.
HYPOTHESES, OR PARADIGMS, are useful if they reflect the real world better than previously held paradigms. In the complex world of foreign affairs and the war puzzle, perfection is unlikely. No general construct will fit all cases even in the restricted category of "major interstate war"; there are simply too many variables. We should insist, however, on testing against the real world and on results that suggest enhanced usefulness over other constructs. In testing the hypothesis, we can test it for consistency with major wars; that is, in looking, for example, at the principal interstate wars in the twentieth century, did they present both a nondemocratic aggressor and an absence of effective deterrence?' And although it is by itself not going to prove causation, we might also want to test the hypothesis against settings of potential wars that did not occur. That is, in nonwar settings, was there an absence of at least one element of the synergy? We might also ask questions about the effect of changes on the international system in either element of the synergy; that is, what, in general, happens when a totalitarian state makes a transition to stable democracy or vice versa? And what, in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?

Studies prove conflicts have been decreasing – primacy is the reason.
Drezner, 2005 [Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation,” may 25]

Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan, the Koreas smakestaring at each other through artillery barrels, a Hobbesian war of all against all in eastern Congo--combat plagues human society as it has, perhaps, since our distant forebears realized that a tree limb could be used as a club. But here is something you would never guess from watching the news: War has entered a cycle of decline. Combat in Iraq and in a few other places is an exception to a significant global trend that has gone nearly unnoticed--namely that, for about 15 years, there have been steadily fewer armed conflicts worldwide. In fact, it is possible that a person's chance of dying because of war has, in the last decade or more, become the lowest in human history. Is Easterbrook right? He has a few more paragraphs on the numbers: The University of Maryland studies find the number of wars and armed conflicts worldwide peaked in 1991 at 51, which may represent the most wars happening simultaneously at any point in history. Since 1991, the number has fallen steadily. There were 26 armed conflicts in 2000 and 25 in 2002, even after the Al Qaeda attack on the United States and the U.S. counterattack against Afghanistan. By 2004, Marshall and Gurr's latest study shows, the number of armed conflicts in the world had declined to 20, even after the invasion of Iraq. All told, there were less than half as many wars in 2004 as there were in 1991. Marshall and Gurr also have a second ranking, gauging the magnitude of fighting. This section of the report is more subjective. Everyone agrees that the worst moment for human conflict was World War II; but how to rank, say, the current separatist fighting in Indonesia versus, say, the Algerian war of independence is more speculative. Nevertheless, the Peace and Conflict studies name 1991 as the peak post-World War II year for totality of global fighting, giving that year a ranking of 179 on a scale that rates the extent and destructiveness of combat. By 2000, in spite of war in the Balkans and genocide in Rwanda, the number had fallen to 97; by 2002 to 81; and, at the end of 2004, it stood at 65. This suggests the extent andintensity of global combat is now less than half what it was 15 years ago. Easterbrook spends the rest of the essay postulating the causes of this -- the decline in great power war, the spread of democracies, the growth of economic interdependence, and even the peacekeeping capabilities of the United Nations. Easterbrook makes a lot of good points -- most people are genuinely shocked when they are told that even in a post-9/11 climate, there has been a steady and persistent decline in wars and deaths from wars. That said, what bothers me in the piece is what Easterbrook leaves out. First, he neglects to mention the biggest reason for why war is on the decline -- there's a global hegemon called the United States right now. Easterbrook acknowledges that "the most powerful factor must be the end of the cold war" but he doesn't understand why it's the most powerful factor. Elsewhere in the piece he talks about the growing comity among the great powers, without discussing the elephant in the room: the reason the "great powers" get along is that the United States is much, much more powerful than anyone else. If you quantify power only by relative military capabilities, the U.S. is a great power, there are maybe ten or so middle powers, and then there are a lot of mosquitoes.[If the U.S. is so powerful, why can't it subdue the Iraqi insurgency?--ed. Power is a relative measure -- the U.S. might be having difficulties, but no other country in the world would have fewer problems.] Joshua Goldstein, who knows a thing or two about this phenomenon, made this clear in a Christian Science Monitor op-ed three years ago: We probably owe this lull to the end of the cold war, and to a unipolar world order with a single superpower to impose its will in places like Kuwait, Serbia, and Afghanistan. The emerging world order is not exactly benign – Sept. 11 comes to mind – and Pax Americana delivers neither justice nor harmony to the corners of the earth. But a unipolar world is inherently more peaceful than the bipolar one where two superpowers fueled rival armies around the world. The long-delayed "peace dividend" has arrived, like a tax refund check long lost in the mail. The difference in language between Goldstein and Easterbrook highlights my second problem with "The End of War?" Goldstein rightly refers to the past fifteen years as a "lull" -- a temporary reduction in war and war-related death. The flip side of U.S. hegemony being responsible for the reduction of armed conflict is what would happen if U.S. hegemony were to ever fade away. Easterbrook focuses on the trends that suggest an ever-decreasing amount of armed conflict -- and I hope he's right. But I'm enough of a realist to know that if the U.S. should find its primacy challenged by, say, a really populous non-democratic country on the other side of the Pacific Ocean, all best about the utility of economic interdependence, U.N. peacekeeping, and the spread ofdemocracy are right out the window. UPDATE: To respond to a few thoughts posted by the commenters: 1) To spell things out a bit more clearly -- U.S. hegemony important to the reduction of conflict in two ways. First, U.S. power can act as a powerful if imperfectconstraint on pairs of enduring rivals (Greece-Turkey, India-Pakistan) that contemplate war on a regular basis. It can't stop every conflict, but it can blunt a lot of them. Second, and more important to Easterbrook's thesis, U.S. supremacy in conventional military affairs prevents other middle-range states -- China, Russia, India, Great Britain, France, etc. -- from challenging theU.S. or each other in a war. It would be suicide for anyone to fight a war with the U.S., and if any of thesecountries waged a war with each other, the 




===2ac Russia add-on=== 

2010 is the key year for Russia to expand and consolidate power – pulling out of afghan allows the US to contain Russian expansion 
Steff 10 — Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm)
Well 2010 will be a period of … and the US remains impossible.

Turn - U.S. focus on the Islamic world prevents any possible prevention of Russian expansionism 
Kabalan 6/25 (Marwan Al, Professor of Political Science and Media at Damascus University, “Russia is reasserting its influence”, http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/russia-is-reasserting-its-influence-1.645812)
The US has always been … them adopt a more pragmatic approach.

Russian adventurism causes global nuclear conflicts 
Cohen, 1996 - Heritage Foundation (Ariel, “The New "Great Game": Oil Politics in the Caucasus and Central Asia”, 1/25, http://www.heritage.org/Research/RussiaandEurasia/BG1065.cfm)
Much is at stake in … off Islamic militancy more difficult.

===2ac Central Asia add-On=== 

A large military footprint bolsters radical nationalism throughout central asia
Innocent and Carpenter, 9- foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)
Contrary to the claims that we should use the U.S. military to stabilize the region and reduce the threat of terrorism ... let alone one who is hell-bent on launching a terrorist attack against the American homeland.

Central Asian war risks accidental launch
Schorr, 1- analyst with the Insitute for Policy Studies (Ira, The Record, 10/14, lexis)
While these actions helped the nuclear superpowers back away from using weapons of mass destruction at a precarious time ... the U.S. is serious about preventing the use of nuclear weapons.

===2ac Defense spending add-on=== 

Presence in Afghanistan kills the economy by lowering domestic spending
SWANSON 10 former coordinator for ACORN 2k10 David, author of Daybreak: Undoing the Imperial Presidency and Forming a More Perfect Union, former coordinator for ACORN, member of Progressive Democrats of America, “Afghan Escalation Funding: More War, Fewer Jobs, Poor Excuses”, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/05/11-8; May.
And remember what this $33 billion actually involves: ... construction for home weatherization and infrastructural repair has a larger direct and indirect economic impact than investing in the military or cutting taxes.

Economic collapse causes extinction
Green and Schrage 2009-Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor at Georgetown University, CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Representative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee (3/26, Michael and Steven, Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)
Facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, ... it could still distract governments from collaboration on common threats and slow the prospects for more rapid recovery.

===2ac Terrorism add-on=== 

Anti Americanism from occupation is the greatest link to global terrorism – Afghanistan is irrelevant
Pena 09 - Senior Fellow, The Independent Institute (December 9, Charles, “Can the U.S. Withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq?” http://www.independent.org/events/transcript.asp?eventID=145 )
Here are the issues. Number one, both Peter and Ivan have talked about this ... not necessarily that they want to come after the United States in the U.S.

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction
Morgan, 9 - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct)
In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question ... to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.