====== ====== 
[[toc]]
=====//**<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Contact</span>**//===== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Affirmative Cites: [[mailto:natalieknez@gmail.com|natalieknez@gmail.com]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Negative Cites: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[mailto:jacobkahn1@gmail.com|jacobkahn1@gmail.com]]</span></span>


=Affirmative= 

==1AC -- ISTA State Tournament== 

===Plan Text=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in South Korea.**

==**North Korea Advantage**== 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Initially note, there is and will not be peace on the Korean peninsula – current talks are only part of North Korea’s nuclear proliferation strategy and regime instability that guarantees an axis of East Asian nuclear proliferation – only genuine action from China solves </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Yuriko 1/21/11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(Yuriko Koike, Chairman of the Executive Council of the Liberal Democratic Party, former Minister of Defense, former Minister of the Environment, and former Minister of State for Okinawa and Northern Territories Affairs, “Peace, Not a Peace Offensive,” http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/koike14/English)</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">When a North Korean</span>____<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">… Washington summit, will not do the job.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And this brinkmanship strategy makes mistakes, miscalculation and war inevitable </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bandow 1/19/11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Doug Bandow, senior fellow at the CATO Institute and former special assistant to former president Reagan, “Military Action is the Worst Option,” http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12717) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">The</span>____<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> Korean <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Peninsula</span>….**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;"> widespread conflict.</span>**</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And more North Korean provocations are inevitable – they’re desperate for money and aid</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lankov 1/16/11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Andrei Lankov, Professor of Korean History at Kookmin University, Seoul, columnist for The Korea Times, Scholar of Asia and specialist in Korean studies, “What to Expect in 2011?” http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2011/01/137_79755.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">There are good reasons….</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> tough indeed.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And both the South and Washington are taking hard line approaches that make conflict resolution impossible</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lankov 1/16/11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Andrei Lankov, Professor of Korean History at Kookmin University, Seoul, columnist for The Korea Times, Scholar of Asia and specialist in Korean studies, “What to Expect in 2011?” http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2011/01/137_79755.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">However, it seems…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> surrender existent nukes.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And any risk of escalation comes first – inevitable provocations and hard-line response guarantee nuclearization, terrorism, US-China conflict and conflict escalation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bremmer </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">and Gordon</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1/18/11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Ian Bremmer, president of the Eurasia Group, David Gordon, head of research at the Eurasia Group, the leading global political risk research and consulting firm, “2011’s Top Risks: Will North Korea Spin out of Control?” Foreign Policy, http://eurasia.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/01/18/2011s_top_risks_will_north_korea_spin_out_of_control)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Following the sinking of a South…</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;"> crisis management.</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And mounting tensions lower the nuclear threshold which means any provocation escalates to nuclear weapons use</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Daheem 1/3/11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Muhammad Daheem, staff writer, “North Korea vs South Korea,” Pakistan Observer, Pakistan and International News Source, http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=69392)</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Tension continued to</span>____<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">…. destabilize the region?</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">At least the Visit has allowed for a platform of cooperation between the US and China – but China’s change of heart is far from complete – we’re still missing genuine Chinese action on North Korea – and the crucial concession is a withdrawal of military presence</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fackler </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">and Landler **1/20/11** (Martin Fackler, Ph.D. in Asian History at Berkeley, Tokyo bureau chief for the New York Times, Mark Landler, Diplomatic Correspondent for the New York Times, “U.S. Warning to China Sends Ripples to the Koreas,” New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/21/world/asia/21diplo.html?_r=1)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">WASHINGTON — <span style="color: black;">President </span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.0pt;">Obama…</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;"> for the Chinese.”</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China’s the only outlet for solvency – superpower sway, foreign alliance, and economic aid </span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Global Security 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(News Source, “China Calls For Talks Over Korean Crisis, Parties Unresponsive”, 11/29/10 </span>[[http://globalsecuritynewswire.org/siteservices/print_friendly.php?ID=nw_20101129_2947]]<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">)</span>**
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">China yesterday…</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> during the Bush administration. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">China is the only way to change North Korean resolve on nuclear issues due to economic and diplomatic power</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bajoria 10‘ </span>**<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Jayshree, Senior Staff Writer for Council on Foreign Relations, October 7, “The China-North Korea Relationship”, accessed online, [[http://www.cfr.org/china/china-north-korea-relationship/p11097#p6]])</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">China is North Korea's most</span>____<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> nuclear facilities in the North or South.</span>

**The insatiable North Korean drive for nuclear weapons means diplomacy efforts will fail - China is the only option**
**David** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">**and Kirkpatrick**,</span> **2/28**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 (Jack David, senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, deputy assistant secretary of defense for combating weapons of mass destruction and negotiations policy, Melanie Kirkpatrick, senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, “Kim Jong Il’s Nuclear Resolve,” Wall Street Journal,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703933404576169720332268988.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]]</span>) </span>
__"North Korea will never give ...__ __<span style="background-color: aqua;">Korea to give up its nuclear weapons is a futile exercise.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Both withdrawal and China are key – withdrawal eliminates the barriers to __pivotal__ Chinese action – and that’s the only scenario for peaceful transition – other options ignite war on the peninsula and regional instability</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Demick </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">& Glionna & Richter, **11/25/10** </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Barbara Demick, Los Angeles Times staff writer, Beijing, John M. Glionna, Times staff writer, Seoul, Paul Richter, Tribune Washington Bureau staff writer, Washington, “China Loath to Condemn North Korea Despite U.S. Pressure,” Tribune Washington Bureau, Boston Herald, http://www.bostonherald.com/news/us_politics/view.bg?articleid=1298842&format=&page=2&listingType=politics#articleFull)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">The </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Obama</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> administration… George W. Bush administration.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And withdrawal’s key – Chinese action on North Korea is crucial for stabilizing the peninsula and the region – but the only thing stopping them is geopolitical rivalry on the peninsula in the form of US military presence</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Putten 12/21/10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(Frans-Paul van der Putten, PhD in History, research fellow with the Clingendael Institute in The Hague, “Sino-US geopolitical rivalry does not help Korean stability”, </span>[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/12/21/sino-us-geopolitical-rivalry-does-not-help-korean-stability/]]<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">The U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">tates government…</span>__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> influence in Pyongyang.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And troop withdrawal is __the__ vital concession for Chinese action</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carpenter 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(Ted Galen Carptenter, vice president for defense and foreign-policy studies at the Cato Institute, 8/3/10, “China Spats,” http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/china-spats-3778)</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Beijing's failure to…</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> all in return.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 19px;">Troop withdrawal is the __only__ way to solve Chinese relations and change China’s perception of the U.S.: changing any other country’s perception can’t solve like the plan does</span>**
<span style="line-height: 19px;"> **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Van Nguyen ’09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Peter, ,Writer and Op-Ed Journalist, Asia Times and Foreign Policy Journal, October 13,“U.S. bases are obstacle to Korean reunification”, United Press and UPI Asia, accessed online, </span>[[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/13/us_bases_are_obstacle_to_korean_reunification/1193/|__http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/13/us_bases_are_obstacle_to_korean_reunification/1193/__]]<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">)</span> </span>
<span style="line-height: 19px;">**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">The United States and South Korea…`</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> democratic <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">government</span>.</span>__</span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">That prevents a cycle of risks and escalation that spirals into extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kim 12/15/10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Dr. Kim Myong Chol,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Executive Director of the Center for Korean-American Peace, author of a number of books and papers that have been published on Asia Research, Asia Times, etc., “When North Korea’s Threats Become Reality,” Asia Times, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/LL15Dg01.html]])</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">A resumption of hostilities</span>____<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">… devastating trap.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">And failure to address North Korean proliferation guarantees broad East Asian proliferation with the demise of the nuclear umbrella – extinction </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hayes </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">& Hamel-Green**, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,”** </span>**[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international community…</span>**__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> proliferant <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">states</span>.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Independently, it guarantees an arc of nuclear instability that makes nuclear war inevitable</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cimbala 10 </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State, (Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8)</span>
**<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Failure to contain proliferation</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">… mistaken </span></span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">preemption</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">First, ballistic missile development lowers the threshold for WMD use and guarantees nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mistry 03</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> – </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">assistant professor of political science at the University of Cincinnati (Dinshaw, “Containing missile proliferation,” Google Books, pages 9-12)</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Thus </span>__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">the missile threat… the stability of deterrence. </span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Second, North Korea’s stockpile of bioweapons triggers both deliberate and accidental attacks </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ICG 09 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]])</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">This report examines North Korea’s…</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;"> unauthorised WMD attacks</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> or incidents.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Guarantees extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ochs 02</span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Of all the weapons of mass… highest of all crimes.</span>


==China Advantage== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**China tensions are rising and inevitable as we continue to conflict with them on the peninsula and perceive them as a threat – this obstructs from global peace and wrecks the inevitable peaceful rise**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Raum, 1/26** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Tom Raum, staff writer at the Associated Press, Ledger and Times, News Source, “U.S., China Tensions Likely to Grow, Not Shrink,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://murrayledger.com/opinion/columns/murray_ledger/u-s-china-tensions-likely-to-grow-not-shrink/article_2f5802c4-2951-11e0-b49e-001cc4c002e0.html]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">WASHINGTON (AP) - </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Despite</span> the pomp, pageantry and <span style="background-color: aqua;">vows of cooperation, tensions … </span>western Pacific and accountability questions of the People's Liberation Army.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**North Korea is a lightning rod of poison to the US-China relationship – it’s a litmus test of broader cooperation – now is key**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Kaufman, 3/3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/11 (Stephen Kaufman, staff writer, Scoop World News, cites Stephen Bosworth, US Special Envoy and ambassador to North Korea, <span style="color: black;">Dean</span> of The<span style="color: black;">Fletcher School</span> at <span style="color: black;">Tufts University</span>, “N. Korea’s Activities at ‘Center’ of U.S.-China Relationship,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/WO1103/S00101/n-koreas-activities-at-center-of-us-china-relationship.htm]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Special Representative for North Korea Policy Stephen </span>__Bosworth told the …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">my judgment, </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">of simply biding our time and ignoring them."</span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **And Korea is key – U.S. presence there and continued Chinese intransigence over the Peninsula risks superpower conflict**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Emmott, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece]]</span>, JMP) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="Underline">It is time to worry rather more, by focusing instead … </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Unless that happens, next time it could really be war. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**China relations are impossible without U.S. concessions allowing a sphere of influence in Korea**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Carpenter, 10****<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> – vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato, Ph.D. in U.S. diplomatic history from the University of Texas (Ted Galen, 19 October 2010, “Resets and Spheres of Influence”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/resets-spheres-influence-4266]]</span>) </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Obama</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> administration </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">has explicitly sought to “reset” </span>the relationship__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … those between </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span>nited <span style="background-color: aqua; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates <span style="background-color: aqua;">and China confirm that point.</span>__</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="underline0">**And Korea is key – it’s the vital access point for China’s sphere of influence** </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Kim, 5 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">– Professor and Vice President for Academic Affairs, Hallym Institute of Advanced International Studies, Hallym University (Taeho, Spring 2005, “Sino-ROK Relations at a Crossroads: Looming Tensions amid Growing Interdependence”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.kida.re.kr/data/kjda/06_Taeho%20Kim.pdf]]</span></span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">p. 132)</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">To begin with, </span>****__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-weight: normal;">the Korean peninsula encapsulates China’s continuing</span>__****<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> … ),3 “China’s peaceful development” (heping fazhan)4 or “China threat theory” (weixielun).</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Plus, cooperation on the peninsula is key to overall US-Chinese relations**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Bandow, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Spring, Doug, “A New Approach to Counter Nuclear Proliferation on the Korean Peninsula,” International Journal of Korean Studies, p55-83,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.icks.org/publication/pdf/2009-SPRING-SUMMER/4.pdf]]</span>, DA 9/1, MaT)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But </span><span class="Underline">American engagement may not be enough. The PRC could … and immediate goal remains halting nuclear proliferation in Northeast Asia</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Independently, military presence is aimed at containing China – causes a self-fulfilling prophecy that guarantees war in Asia**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Klare, 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">— professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 2006 (Michael, “Containing China: The US's real objective”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]]</span>) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Accompanying all these diplomatic initiatives has been a vigorous, if largely … </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-color: aqua;">in Asia</span>**... from such a conflagration</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Escalation is likely – the impact is full-scale US/China nuclear war**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Dodge, 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies – Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, p. 415-416)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the summer of 2005, Chinese .… </span><span class="Underline">dangers of Chinese warfighting strategy may be revealed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Military presence enrages China and will inevitably cause them to sell U.S. treasury bonds </span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline"> **<span style="text-decoration: none;">Siow, 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">—East Asia bureau chief at Channel NewsAsia (Maria, 27 August 2010, A game of ships and bargaining chips,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.todayonline.com/Commentary/EDC100827-0000028/A-game-of-ships-and-bargaining-chips]]</span>) </span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rather, </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">China is keeping an</span>__ __apprehensive <span style="background-color: aqua;">eye on what it … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> China's growing economic and military influence. </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **This leads to immediate economic collapse**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **Williams, 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1/23/04, Ian, Asia Times, “China-US: Double bubbles in danger of colliding,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/FA23Dj01.html]]</span>_)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> American companies may have forgotten what Henry Ford propounded when … </span>**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">any nuclear strike</span>__** __the Chinese could manage at the moment.__</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Treasury-based economic collapse immediately spills over globally</span>**</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline"> **<span style="text-decoration: none;">Wharton, 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> (9/2/09, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, “Is the World Losing Faith in the U.S. Dollar?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article.cfm?articleid=2332]]</span>) </span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> __Nobel Prize-winning economist...__ __<span style="background-color: aqua;">reducing</span> the **<span style="background-color: aqua;">value of foreign investments</span>**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> when converted to dollars.</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Economic decline leads to terrorism, disease, nuclear war and extinction </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Green and Schrage ‘09 </span>****<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(</span>**<span class="-SmallText-"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Senior Advisor and Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and Associate Professor at Georgetown University. the CSIS Scholl Chair in International Business and a former senior official with the US Trade Rep </span></span>
<span class="-SmallText-"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">resentative's Office, State Department and Ways & Means Committee Michael J., and Stephen P, “It's not just the economy,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Asian_Economy/KC26Dk01.html)</span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Facing <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the </span>worst <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">economic crisis </span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 10pt; padding: 0in;">pandemic diseases</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and trafficking in persons. It would also undermine the demonstration effect of liberal norms we are urging China to embrace at home. </span>




=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]