[[toc]]
Email: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[mailto:lpomahony13@damien-hs.edu|lpomahony13@damien-hs.edu]]</span> for cites
=<span style="font-size: 22px; line-height: 33px;">AFF</span>= 

==**__Korea 1AC Long Beach__**== 

----

Email: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[mailto:lpomahony13@damien-hs.edu|lpomahony13@damien-hs.edu]]</span> for cites

Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its ground forces from the Republic of Korea. 


**Contention 1 is The Status Quo**

**There are 28, 500 US military personnel stationed in South Korea – No more reductions are planned.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs ‘10</span>** [U.S. Department of State on Asian-Pacific matters; ‘Background Note: South Korea;’ May 28, 2010; http://www.state.gov/r/pa/ei/bgn/2800.htm]
<span class="NothingChar">The United States believes …job creation in both countries.</span>


**Advantage 1 is Denuclearization**

**<span class="TagsChar1">First, U.S. troops don’t deter North Korea—military presence only prevents China and South Korea from stabilizing and de-nuclearizing the peninsula</span>**
**Erickson,** Executive Director of CenterMovement.org, <span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">in ‘**10** </span></span>[5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” [[http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/]]]
On the night of …before it’s too late.


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Second the plan is the vital concession for Chinese co-operation on North Korea – It resolves territorial disputes and prevents decline in relations.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carpenter</span>**, vice president for defense and foreign-policy studies <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">@</span> Cato Institute, <span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">in ‘**10**</span></span>

[Ted Galen, 3 August 2010, China Spats,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/china-spats-3778]]</span>] 
Relations between China …nothing at all in return. 



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 0in;">Third, Chinese leadership over North Korea is key to de-nuclearization</span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 22px;">Economist in ‘10</span>** [27 May 2010, The nightmare scenario, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.economist.com/node/16216482?story_id=16216482]]</span>]
DID the warped …not have died in vain 



**And, China is the only country that can convince North Korea to denuclearize.**
<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">O’Hanlon,</span></span> Micheal E, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, <span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">and Solarz</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">,</span></span> Stephen J, Former Congressman, New York, 6/24<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">/09</span></span> [A New North Korea Strategy,[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0624_north_korea_ohanlon.aspx| http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0624_north_korea_ohanlon.aspx]]]
If there is hope of … such pressure is China.


**Five, failure to de-nuclearize North Korea guarantees nuclear conflict – causes global famine and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hayes & Hamel-Green</span>**<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span></span> Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University, <span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">in **‘10**</span></span>
[1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,”<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span>] 
The consequences of failing…. from the international community.


**And, this makes nuclear proliferation throughout Asia inevitable—guarantees nuclear conflict**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cimbala</span>**<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, </span>Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State <span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">in ‘10</span></span></span>
[Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8] 
Failure to …a mistaken preemption. 
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: left;"> </span>

**Asia is the most probable scenario for escalation**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tellis 4</span>**<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">—</span></span>Senior Associate at Carnegie. PhD from U Chicago. Served in the U.S. Department of State as Senior Advisor to the Ambassador at the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, and briefly on the National Security Council staff as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Strategic Planning and Southwest Asia (Ashley, Assessing America’s War on Terror: Confronting Insurgency, Cementing Primacy, December 2004, <span class="CitesChar1"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/NBRAnalysis-Tellis_December2004.pdf]]</span></span>)
One analyst, Gaurav … region in the world.

**Six, North Korea exports its nuclear missile technology to the Middle East—sanctions don’t solve.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fox News</span>**, 5/28/**<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span></span>**

[[[http://www.foxnews.com/world/2010/05/27/apnewsbreak-experts-say-nkorea-exporting-nuclear-ballistic-missile-technology/|http://www.foxnews.com/world/2010/05/27/apnewsbreak-experts-say-nkorea-exporting-nuclear-ballistic-missile-technology/ ]]] 
North Korea is exporting … to have been assembled.


**And, Iranian proliferation would lead to wildfire proliferation throughout the Middle East, making nuclear war inevitable. Cold War deterrence will fail.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Inbar</span>**, Professor of Political Studies at Bar-Ilan University and Director of its Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies, 200<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">**6**,</span></span> “The Need to Block a Nuclear Iran,” Article was Peer Reviewed by David Leitner and Tamara Sternlieb,
[Efraim, The Middle East Review of International Affairs, Vol 10 No 1 Article 7 March 2006, [[http://meria.idc.ac.il/journal/2006/issue1/jv10no1a7.html]]] 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Indeed, the emergence of … extremely dangerous consequences.</span>


**No impact turns—their authors agree fast proliferation is destabilizing.**
Brad **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Roberts</span>**, Institute for Defense Analyses, Fall **<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">1999</span></span>**, Nonproliferation Review, **http://cns.miis.edu/pubs/npr/vol06/64/robert64.pdf**
But the standard … these terrorist actions. 


**Last, the plan is critical to the overall health of US-Chinese relations.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bandow 9 </span>**[Spring, Doug, “A New Approach to Counter Nuclear Proliferation on the Korean Peninsula,” International Journal of Korean Studies, p55-83, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.icks.org/publication/pdf/2009-SPRING-SUMMER/4.pdf]]</span>]
But American engagement … proliferation in Northeast Asia. 



**And, U.S.-China relations solve every scenario for extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cohen & Greenberg</span>**, former U.S. secretary of defense & chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., <span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">in ‘9</span></span>
[William S. & Maurice R. “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf]]] 
The evolution of Sino-U.S…. is indispensable.




**Advantage two is Regionalism**

**First, U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – Asian powers should develop a regional security strategy that does not rely on the U.S. – solves WMD terrorism, tame China, prevents Sino-Japan conflict, Japan imperialism, solve resource conflicts and stop major power domination**
**Francis, 06** – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 [Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” [[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]]]
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">At the conclusion of… independent East Asian Union. </span>


**And, regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a clear sign of U.S. withdrawal can motivate sustainable regional security cooperationa**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carpenter and Bandow 4</span>**<span class="CharacterStyle1"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> - *</span> </span>Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND **Senior Fellow at the Cato** Institute [Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161]
The security treaties with … west-central Pacific.


**Specifically, withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents great power war**
**<span style="font-size: 90%;">Lee, 09 </span>**– Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org|www.cfr.org]]</span>]
Korea’s Option of … the U.S.-Korea alliance.


**Second, Washington should remove troops and shift the burden to Asian countries.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Carpenter, 2009 </span>**[Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute , “Cato Handbook for Policymakers” (7th Edition), Cato Institute, 18 June 2009, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb111/hb111-54.pdf]]]
That approach is … as a security client.


**And, Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Espiritu, 06</span>** – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>]
Can the U.S. live … the Eagle to head home.


**Third, Strengthening the East Asian regional security architecture key to solve terrorism, territorial disputes, disease, environmental degradation, and maritime security**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Nanto, 08</span>** – Specialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services (1/4, “East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdf)
A stronger regional … exist in the future.


**And, territorial disputes draw in great powers --- causes World War 3**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Waldron, 97</span>** – professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War College and an associate of the Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard (March 1997, Arthur, Commentary, “How Not to Deal with China,” EBSCO)
MAKING THESE flash-points … Japan--or the United States.



**Observation two is Solvency**

**First, The US should execute a phased withdrawal – any instability is outweighed by US benefits.**
<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 17px;">**Bandow** senior fellow at the Cato Institute **87** A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire (Doug, “Korea: The Case for Disengagement”, 8 December 1987, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=962]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 90%;">For 20 straight days … conflict, would be gone.</span>


**Secod, phase withdrawal is the most effective solution**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Bailey, Lieutenant Colonel, 1990</span>** (Tommy F, “Isn’t it time for U.S. Troops to leave Korea?,” Air War College Research Report, December 26, June 23, 2010, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA229942&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.)
Now on to the recommendations. … is no longer necessary. (1-13)



==Korea 1AC Fullerton== 
Same as Old 1ac but instead of regionalism we read the Japan Advantage


**ADVANTAGE TWO is JAPAN –**
**Removing troops from South Korea shifts the focus of the alliance and causes a more assertive, independent Japanese force structure**
<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cronin 5</span></span> <span class="CitesChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Richard, Specialist in Asian Affairs, The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs Vol. 29 No. 1, </span>[[http://www.stimson.org/southeastasia/pdf/Cronin_The_North_Korean_Nuclear_Threat_and%20the_US_Japan_Security_Alliance.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span></span>
<span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The U.S. Defense Department’s …diplomatic, and military interests</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Withdrawing forces in Asia sends a signal to Japan that they cannot depend on the US indefinitely, spurring military assertiveness throughout Asia**
<span class="cite">Carpenter 95 </span>(Ted Galen, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, Paternalism And Dependence: The U.S.-Japanese Security Relationship, <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-244.html]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even worse, </span><span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Washington's policy ….</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">o continue its free-riding habits.</span>


**TWO IMPACTS – FIRST IS REGIONAL STABILITY**



**Independent Japanese forces are the most effective route to conflict stability in Asia**
**Carpenter, ‘2** [Ted, Galen, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, “Japan Takes a Modest Step Toward Global Security” CATO, 1-8-2002, [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=3364|__http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=3364__]]
<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">The standard argument against ,,,state explicitly that it expects Japan to do so.</span>

**Nuclear instability in Asia outweighs – lack of __certainty__, presence of __great powers__, number of __actors__, entrenched __nature of conflict and__ no conflict-depressing __norms__**
Paul **Dibb, ‘1**. Prof – Australian National University, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter 2001, http://www.nwc.navy.mil/press/Review...r/art2-w01.htm
<span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The areas of maximum …</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">when confronted with major crises.</span>


**The only scenario for escalating Asian conflicts is in a world of US security assurances**
<span style="margin-right: .2in;">Joel S **Wit, ’10**. Visiting Fellow, U.S.<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math';">‐</span>Korea Institute at SAIS, “Four Scenarios for a Nuclear North Korea,” Februrary, [[http://uskoreainstitute.org/pdf/WP-NK_Future/USKI_WP10-01_Wit.pdf|__http://uskoreainstitute.org/pdf/WP-NK_Future/USKI_WP10-01_Wit.pdf__]]. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">Overall, while this scenario … efforts to work in close cooperation with China. </span>

**SECOND is TAIWAN CONFLICT –**

**An independent Japan prevents Taiwan conflict by restricting the Chinese sphere of influence**
**Preble, ‘6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, “Two Normal Countries Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship” CATO Policy Analysis, April 18, 2006, </span>__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa566.pdf]]</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">lingering hostility toward</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">on a distant patron for its defense.</span></span>


**Taiwan is the most likely scenario for global nuclear escalation**
**Ikegami, ‘8**<span style="color: black;">. Dr. Masako, Professor of Sociology and Peace & Conflict Studies and Director of the Center for Pacific Asia Studies – Stockholm University “Time for Conflict Prevention Across the Taiwan Strait”, China Brief, 8(7), 3-28,</span> [[http://www.jamestown.org/single/?no_cache=1&tx_ttnews%5btt_news%5d=4822|__http://www.jamestown.org/single/?no_cache=1&tx_ttnews[tt_news]=4822__]]<span style="color: black;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, a </span><span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">cross-Strait …boycotts of Chinese products.</span></span>



**END makes Taiwan the deadliest war imaginable**
**Johnson, ‘1.** Chalmers, President – Japan Policy Research Institute, “Time to Bring the Troops Home”, The Nation, 4-26, [[http://ieas.berkeley.edu/cks/k12/girling_troops.doc|__http://ieas.berkeley.edu/cks/k12/girling_troops.doc__]]. 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .2in; margin-right: .2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">In East Asia, the United States maintains massive and expensive military forces poised to engage in</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> everything from </span><span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">nuclear war</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">easily escalate into a nuclear holocaust</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>



**Independently, curbing the rise of another great power dampens great power conflict**
<span style="margin-right: -2.0pt;"><span class="tagChar">Wohlforth, ‘9</span>. William, professor of government at Dartmouth College. “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War,” World Politics v61, n1, January, Muse. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The evidence suggests that … </span><span class="Emphasis2">the backdrop of world politics</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [End Page 57</span>


**The plan toes the line – it encourages Japanese flexibility by loosening the reins while preserving a robust alliance**
**Bandow, ‘9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy and civil liberties, “Tokyo Drift” CATO Institute, National Interest Online, 8-31-2009, </span>[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10496|__http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10496__]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Over the last half century Japan…</span><span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, which would benefit both countries.</span></span>







==Plans We Have Read== 
Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its actively deployed ground forces from the Republic of Korea.

Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its actively deployed forces from the Republic of Korea.


==2AC Fem Add-On== 
**Military bases and troops in South Korea will inherently rape and sexually violate women**
<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kirk 2008</span></span> <span class="CitesChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, __http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific__)</span></span>
Violence against women..., economic, and social structures.


**This strategy of military stationing on foreign territories is the foundation of a pervasive militarism that results in racism, sexism, sexual violence, rape, environmental destruction, and war.**
<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kirk 2008</span></span> <span class="CitesChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14,</span></span>







=**<span style="font-size: 170%; height: 44px; width: 1786px;"> NEG</span>**= 
**<span style="font-size: xx-large; line-height: 48px;"><span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 33px;">Email: </span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[mailto:mlornelas12@damien-hs.edu|mlornelas12@damien-hs.edu]]</span> neg cites</span></span>**



==Security Kritik== 


The affirmative’s description of the world is a product of the orientalist strategy of imperialism. Their defense of rational policymaking is merely a way of enacting their goal of stability and security. This extension of technological thought renders life meaningless.
Burke**, Senior Lecturer in the School of Politics and Int. Relations at the Univ. of New South Wales, Sydney, in** ‘7 **[Anthony, Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence, 198-201]**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;"> Even though he could not… exists only in so far as it is his construct.59</span>**

This quest for certainly through strategy and real-politik makes repeating the 20th century’s worst atrocities inevitable.
Burke**, senior lecturer at University of New South Whales,** 07
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;"> [Anthony, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”, theory & Event, 10, 2]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;"> This desire for order….or force for good.</span>**

Vote negative to endorse our specific intellectual criticism of the 1AC
Edkins**, Professor of International Politics at the University of Wales at Aberystwyth, in** ‘6
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;"> [Jenny December 2006, “The Local, the Global and the Troubling,” Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy, Vol. 9 No. 4, pg. 499-511]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;"> Of course, 'this regime is….detail of particular instances.</span>**


==**Schmitt**== 
----

[[#_GoBack]]The affirmative’s concept of the political reproduces the most naïve form of liberalism—the affirmative’s attempt to solve for the violence of its enemies real and imagined only drives the fundamental antagonisms that are the root cause of that violence underground. War as the horizon of international relations is inevitable, and only by accepting that difference is the foundation of the political produces a politics that can limit the effects of warfare 

<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rasch</span></span>, Professor and Chair of … Germanic Studies @ Indiana University, <span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">in ‘5</span></span>
[William Henry. “Lines in the Sand: Enmity as a Structuring Principle.” Can be found in the South Atlantic Quarterly, Spring 2005. 255-61] 
<span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schmitt</span></span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">, then, starts from the … </span><span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">political nightmares of absolute exclusion.</span> </span>


Ultimately, the elimination of the friend/enemy dichotomy reproduces the worst forms of biopolitical violence—genocide and total war are the outcome of a politics where former enemies become inhuman others 

<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thorup</span></span>, lecturer and at the … of Aarhus in Denmark, <span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">in ‘6</span></span>
[Mikkel, In Defense of Enmity – Critiques of Liberal Globalism, Ph.D. Dissertation] 
Another register in which <span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the … racism of permanent purification</span></span> (Foucault 2003: 61-2) 

Enemies come first—The alternative is a decisionist ethics that reorients political action toward the maintenance of the friend/enemy dichotomy. Affirming our enemies is key to an ethos that affirms the inevitability of insecurity and opens the space for the pluralization of political differences 

<span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Prozorov</span></span>, Professor of International Relations, … <span class="CardsUnderlined"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the father of political realism.</span></span>

==First Strike DA== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>

A strong military presence shows our willingness to first strike an enemy by demonstrating that we have large interest in keeping peace in the region – this ensures our nuclear security guarantees remain credible 
Glaser Deputy Dean Public Policy Chicago ‘5 
(Charles, Steve Fetter, Dean Public Policy Maryland, Fall, International Security, Counterforce Revisited, Vol. 30 #2, MITPressJournals) 
A theme that runs through …<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">vulnerability to a small nuclear force</span></span>. 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>

Only the threat of nuclear use can convince committed regional powers of the credibility of the U.S.’s commitment to extended deterrence 
<span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Long</span></span> Research Rand ‘<span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span></span>
(Austin-, Deterrence: From Cold War to Long War: Lessons from Six Decades of RAND Research, http://www.dtic .mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA489540&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) 
<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">If credibility in …</span></span><span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">strike in exchange for Japan remaining nonnuclear</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
Primacy is key to solve a slew of threats to Asian stability- only military superiority can prevent nuclear coercion by determined powers and maintain allied confidence 
<span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller</span></span> Director of Studies Lowy Institute for International Policy <span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span>
(Franklin C.-, Andrew Shearer, WSJ, “U.S. Disarmament Is Dangerous for Asia”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB1 0001424052748704398304574598791384178648.html) 
The basic problem is that …<span class="NothingChar">than on airy dreams of disarmament.</span>


Extinction 
Kennedy & Irie ‘00 
(Prof. Paul-, Prof. Akira-, Daily Yomiuri, Jan. 10, “21st Century--Dialogues on the Future/ Globalization's sway in evolution of states put in focus”, Lexis) 
Kennedy: Over the past two …<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> from <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">blowing up the entire world.</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
The ability to diffuse regional challengers is key to maintain global leadership 
Lind Sr Fellow New America Foundation ‘7 
(Michael-, May-June, National Interest, “Beyond American hegemony”,http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/ 
is_89/ai_n27268888/?tag=content;col1) 
Finally, <span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">the global hegemony <span style="border: none;">…</span></span></span>United States is to be a "hyperpower." 


Collapse of superiority causes great power nuclear conflict 
Gray Director Strategic Studies Center Reading U. ‘5 
(Colin S.-, Spring, Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?”, http://www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm) 
6. Interstate War, Down but Far from Out 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Logically, the reverse …</span>“fear, honor, and interest.”23 


A strong military presence de-escalates conflicts – turns the case 
Walt International Affairs Kennedy ‘2 
(Stephen, Kennedy = Harvard’s School of Government, Spring “American Primacy: Its Prospects and Pitfalls.” Naval War College Review, Vol. 55, Iss. 2. pg. 9, Proquest) 
A second <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">consequence of</span></span><span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 12pt;">…<span style="border: none;"> decades like the 1930s or 1940s.</span> </span></span>








=<span style="font-size: 22px; line-height: 22px;">SPECIFIC ROUNDS</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Fullerton Octos vs St. Francis AP</span>== 
**Text: The USFG should implement a withdrawal of the Army, and Company A, B, C, D, E, F, and H of the United States Marine Corp.**

Marine security guards are critical to the safety of U.S. embassies and diplomatic credibility 
<span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bureau of Diplomatic Security</span></span>, Department of State, <span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> (“UNITED STATES MARINE SECURITY GUARDS SAFEGUARDING AMERICAN MISSIONS AROUND THE WORLD”, 
http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/138440.pdf) 
<span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the face of daily threats</span></span><span class="CardsFont12ptChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> … and to American diplomacy. </span></span>

**<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Marine-protection of our embassies preserves information dominance necessary to solve every transnational threat and maintain our soft-power</span></span>**
<span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams</span></span>, Center for Emerging Threats and Opportunities, <span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">19</span></span><span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">96</span></span> (J. Noel, “U.S. State Department and U.S. Marine Corps: Partners for the 21st Century - Using Embassies as Advanced Bases for Information”, 
http://smallwarsjournal.com/documents/williams.pdf) 
In the tradition of Pete Ellis…<span class="CardsHighlightedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> can make an important contribution to this end</span></span>. 




CBW and nuclear war 
<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Barlow</span></span>**, Director of the Berglund Center for Internet Studies, holds the Matsushita Chair of Asian Studies at Pacific University, Ph.D. in history from UC Berkeley,** <span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2K2</span></span> **(Jeffrey, March, “American Power, Globalism, and the Internet: Editorial Essay”, The Journal of Education, Community and Values, http://bcis.pacificu.edu/journal/2002/03/editori**
**al.php#6)**
Much of Nye’s analysis is intended to make …state autonomy in a networked system.