[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="font-family: 'times new roman','new york',times,serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: normal;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">In this debate we will defend the following: The <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">United States Federal Government</span> should substantially reduce its military and police presence by permanently eliminating all its present and future military and police presence in <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">Okinawa</span>.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">Contention One is Coloniality:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**The Eurocentered colonization of the globe imposed a system of classification, knowledge and power that imposed a system of gender, defined by conquerors, on the rest of the world, in order to facilitate conquest and initiate enduring systems of coloniality –**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Lugones 07**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Maria, director of the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies in Philosophy, Interpretation, and Culture at <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">SUNY Binghamton</span>, “Heterosexualism and the Colonial / Modern Gender System.” Hypatia 22.1, pp. 186-7.)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">Understanding the place of gender …these are matters of resistance to domination.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Coloniality demands an inverted logic of identity where the colonizer’s evils are projected onto gendered and racialized bodies that are condemned to the hell of perpetual violence and control. Ethics are permanently suspended and normal life for members of colonizing societies is driven by a death ethic of conquest, rape, and killing.**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Maldonado-Torres 08**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Nelson, assoc. prof <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">Ethnic Studies</span> at <span class="yshortcuts" style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">UC Berkeley</span>, Against War: Views from the Underside of Modernity, p. 216-221)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">Dussel, Quijano, and Wynter lead us to ….ontology collapses into a Manicheanism, as Fanon suggested.72</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**The US military institutionalizes colonial gender –**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Kirk and Francis 2k**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Gwyn [member of the <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">San Francisco Bay Area</span> Okinawa Peace Network, founding member of the East Asia-U.S. Women's Network Against <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Militarism</span>], Carolyn [member of Okinawa Women Act Against Military Violence, founding member of the East Asia-U.S. Women's Network Against Militarism], Redefining Security:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">Women Challenge U.S. Military Policy and Practice in East <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Asia</span>, <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">The Regents of the University of California</span> on behalf of Berkeley Women's Law Journal, 2000, lexis)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Many of the problems created …</span> violence and killing, and an appearance of invulnerability. n80</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**U.S. military presence in Okinawa’s part & parcel of these gendered, racialized non-ethics –**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"> **Kirk & Feffer 8**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">[Gwyn, policy and research analyst with the <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Global Fund for Women</span> and a <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Foreign Policy In Focus</span> columnist & John, author of several books and numerous articles. He has been a Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Washington, DC</span> and a PanTech fellow in <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">Korean Studies</span> at <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Stanford University</span>. He is a former associate editor of <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">World Policy Journal</span>. He has worked as an international affairs representative in <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Eastern Europe</span> and East Asia for the <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">American Friends Service Committee</span>. He has studied in <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">England</span> and <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Russia</span>, lived in <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Poland</span> and <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Japan</span>, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia. He has taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">New York University</span>, Hofstra, <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Union College</span>, <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Cornell University</span>, and Sofia University, <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">March 14</span>, "GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA PACIFIC", <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">[[@http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span>]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">The power dynamics of militarism …Our job is to listen to them and to act accordingly.</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**US and Japanese governments produced a relocation as window dressing; the future relocation of Okinawan presence to outside Okinawa only feeds US military strategy while masking commitment to militarize even more of Okinawa while repressing resistance**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**McCormack 9**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Gavan, emeritus professor at <span class="yshortcuts" style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">Australian National University</span> in Canberra and coordinator at Japan Focus, "Hillary in Japan – The Enforcer," The Asia-Pacific Journal, Vol. 8-7-09, February 22, 2009. <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">[[@http://japanfocus.org/-Gavan-McCormack/3059]]</span>)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">During the long, perhaps soon to end, era of LDP hegemony, Washington…. super states now combine to root out and crush the Okinawan resistance.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**US conquest of Japan has produced a <span class="yshortcuts" style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border-bottom-color: initial; border-bottom-style: none; border-bottom-width: initial; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">client state</span>; the Japanese government willfully passes the costs of US empire onto internal populations that are shut out of policymaking. McCormack 9**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Gavan, emeritus professor at Australian National University in Canberra and coordinator at Japan Focus, "Hillary in Japan – The Enforcer," The Asia-Pacific Journal, Vol. 8-7-09, February 22, 2009. [[@http://japanfocus.org/-Gavan-McCormack/3059]])</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">Japan would pay dearly for its submission…__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> long US design to construct Japan as a “Client State</span>__.”</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**The US-Japan axis denies self-determination to Okinawa in order to form consciousness conducive to US empire –**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Miyasato 9**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Seigen, Chairperson, Okinawa Foreign Policy Study Group, “Open Letter” addressed by 14 representative figures of Okinawa’s civil society to secretary of state Clinton on the occasion of her Japan visit, <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">February 14</span>, reprinted in full at [[@http://japanfocus.org/-Gavan-McCormack/3059]])</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">The people of Okinawa have never ….. for Okinawa but for the US as well.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**The coloniality of Okinawa means its own government implicitly supports US military presence and rationalizes gender violence –**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Ginoza 5**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">[Ayano, Professor of American/Women's studies @ <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Washington State University</span>,<span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">[[@http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/0/4/0/7/1/pages40718/p40718-1.php]]</span>, September, The American Village as a Space of Militarism and Tourism: U.S. Militarism, Gender Hierarchy, Class, and Race in Okinawa]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">Also on this web site, <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">the Okinawan government strategically posits …. indispensable to analyze the dynamics of naturalizing and trivializing processes</span>.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">Contention Two is reconciliation</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**US power upholds nationalisms and shields Japanese government from participation in cooperation and reconciliation –**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Selden 08**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><span style="color: black;">(Mark, Japan Focus coordinator and a Senior Research Associate in the East Asia Program at Cornell University. Posted at Japan Focus, September 10. “Japan, the United States and <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">Yasukuni</span> <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Nationalism</span>: War, Historical Memory and the Future of the Asia Pacific,” <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">[[@http://www.japanfocus.org/-Mark-Selden/2892]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">The US-China opening of 1970 and the resurgence ….__<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> but continues to reverberate powerfully in historical memory</span>__.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Reconciliation is a process to move beyond war – coloniality ensures a non-ethics that maintains a warring paradigm that prevents actors from reconciling – Maldonado-Torres 06**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Nelson, asst. prof. Ethnic Studies at UC Berkeley, “Reconciliation as a Contested Future: <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">Decolonization</span> as Project or Beyond the Paradigm of War.” Reconciliation, Nations and Churches in <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">Latin America</span>, ed. Iain S. MacLean, pp. 225-6.)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Reconciliation faces peculiar challenges if war is …</span> truth and reconciliation itself is part and parcel of such a paradigm. And with that I shall begin.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**We argue for the plan as part of a struggle to attain the decolonial attitude – while nation-states are themselves within an epistemic paradigm of war, changes in our relationship to knowledge can rupture this paradigm. While defending the plan does not make it so, it is part of the same process that the plan would enable – the creation of sites of resistance where the activism and memory of colonized, racialized, gendered people can decolonize the world –**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Maldonado-Torres 06**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(Nelson, asst. prof. Ethnic Studies at UC Berkeley, “Reconciliation as a Contested Future: Decolonization as Project or Beyond the Paradigm of War.” Reconciliation, Nations and Churches in Latin America, ed. Iain S. MacLean, pp. 240-5.)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">The explorations in this volume of the Truth and Reconciliation Commissions …. expressions of coloniality in the modern world.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**The debate - in this round as well as outside it - must reflect the imperative of challenging and denaturalizing all nationalisms – US military presence must be challenged and ended for this to occur –**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"> **Selden 08**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"><span style="color: black;">(Mark, Japan Focus coordinator and a Senior Research Associate in the East Asia Program at Cornell University. Posted at Japan Focus, September 10. “Japan, the United States and Yasukuni Nationalism: War, Historical Memory and the Future of the Asia Pacific,” [[@http://www.japanfocus.org/-Mark-Selden/2892]])</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">The two sites of Arlington and Yasukuni, as well as the Okinawa …. kingdom on the China/Korean border that have inflamed tensions between the two nations.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Okinawa withdrawal spurs movements from the margins of US <span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">client states</span> - Feffer 10**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">(John, co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">Institute for Policy Studies</span>, “Okinawa and the new domino effect,” <span class="yshortcuts" style="border-bottom-color: #366388; border-bottom-style: dotted; border-bottom-width: 2px; color: #366388; cursor: pointer;">March 6</span>,<span class="yshortcuts" style="color: #366388;">[[@http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">Wherever the US military puts down its foot overseas … don’t know what the Japanese characters mean, they can at least tell in which direction the exit arrow is pointing.</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]