[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 



__Observation 1__: Neg defends use if defending deterrence 

V is **Global Welfare**
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">VC is **__Maximizing International Stability__**.</span>

C1= possession leads to use

__Subpoint__ __A____: Nuclear War is more likely in a highly proliferated world.__
Brito, Dagobert L. “Nuclear Proliferation and the Probability of Nuclear War”: //Public Choice//, Vol. 37, No. 2 (1981), pp. 247-260 Published by: Springer
"Consider the case ... fear of retaliation.”
Berkowitz, Bruce D. Proliferation, Deterrence, and the Likelihood of Nuclear War: //The Journal of Conflict Resolution//, Vol. 29, No. 1 (Mar., 1985), pp. 112-136 Published by: Sage Publications, Inc.
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;"> "The first argument ... and so on.”</span>

__Subpoint__ __B____: The Indian-Pakistani conflict will be devastating for all humanity with nuclear weapons involved.__
Geller, Daniel S. “Nuclear Weapons and the Indo-Pakistani Conflict: Global Implications of a Regional Power Cycle” 
//International Political Science Review// Vol. 24, No. 1, Power Cycle Theory and Global Politics. (Jan., 2003), pp. 137-150 Sage Publications, Ltd
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">“Both the military ... of nuclear weapons.”</span>

Gabriel Gache, Science News Editor for //Softpedia//, an online science and technology news resource 8th of April 2008


<span style="text-indent: 0.5in; vertical-align: baseline;"><span class="CardTextChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 200%;">“Global or not ... nuclear exchange is”</span></span></span>

__Subpoint__ __C____: Nuclear Terrorism is likely in a highly proliferated world.__

Kokoshin, Andrei. “A Nuclear Response to Nuclear Terror: Reflections of Nuclear Preemption” 
//Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science//, Vol. 607, Confronting the Specter of Nuclear Terrorism (Sep., 2006), pp. 59-63 Sage Publications, Inc. 
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">"It seems far ... perceived aggressor state.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 130%;">Wilson, Valerie Plame. "A World Without Nuclear Weapons." //NYDailyNews.com//. Daily News, 22 Jul 2010</span>
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;">“I believe that ... retaining nuclear arsenals.”</span>


==Negative== 
Ought is a moral obligation
__Observation 1__: presume states moral

__Observation 2__: E states are moral agents. <span class="Pre-CardtextChar">//<span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 200%;">Mark Amstutz</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 200%;"> explains,</span></span>
[Amstutz, Mark. International Ethics: Concepts, Theories, and Cases in Global Politics. Rowman and Littlefield Publishers. 2005. Pg. 15. Political Science Professor at Wheaton College]

||   ||   ||
||   ||
“<span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 130%;">What role do ...</span> of international society.” 

V= Morality
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 200%;">Pettman, Ralph. Moral Claims in World Affairs. Biddles Ltd. 1979. Pg. 36. International Relations Professor at University of Melbourne </span>
<span style="line-height: 130%;">Pettman , “**__The second is ...__** and moral orders.”</span>
VC= Maximizing efficient use of resources

**__My thesis and sole contention is that Nuclear Weapons can be use efficiently as a deterrent.__**



<span class="Pre-CardtextChar">//<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Mearsheimer</span>//<span style="font-weight: normal;"> ,</span></span> “Deterrence at its ... all the participants. 

<span class="Pre-CardtextChar">//<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Mearsheimer 2</span>// </span>“The threat to .. of nuclear war
<span class="Pre-CardtextChar">//<span style="font-weight: normal;">Mearsheimer 3</span>// </span> “Conventional war, deadly ... plus nuclear weapons.” 


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]