[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Plan Text== 
The United States federal government should reduce nearly all of its forces in Afghanistan to a level consistent with a counterterrorism strategy. 
==Inherency== 
Contention 1: Inherency 

The US won’t withdraw now – both the 2011 deadline and the December review are mechanisms for increasing troop levels 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klein 6/24</span></span> (Joe Klein, staff writer for Time, “Can Obama and Petraeus Work Together?”, [[http://www.time.com/time/printout/0,8816,1999251,00.html]]) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the policy... until July 2011."</span>

Counterinsurgency will inevitably fail – a minimalist approach is sufficient to contain al Qaeda and prevent a Taliban takeover 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 9</span></span> (Rick "Ozzie" Nelson, Director, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Program and Senior Fellow, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Oct 1, 2009, “The Other Side of the COIN”, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A1: Probably not....</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> approach would entail. </span>

Now is the key time – the small footprint approach is uniquely sustainable and delaying the transition risks precipitous withdrawal 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It follows that </span>...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for that purpose. </span>

==Stability== 
Contention 2: Stability 

Current counterinsurgency strategy is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US props up the unpopular and ineffective central government at the cost of stability 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Preble 10</span></span> (Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834 | Suo) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The appropriate question ...</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"> stable electoral democracy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

More specifically, counterinsurgency doctrine is inherently hostile to local authority structures 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedman 9</span></span> (Benjamin H. Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security studies, September 3, 2009, “Making Enemies in Afghanistan”, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/03/making-enemies-in-afghanistan/ | Suo) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yaroslav </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Trofimov’s article</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... possibility worth considering. </span>

And, US presence creates deepening spirals of instability and violence – a minimalist approach is key 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span class="UnderlineChar">within the ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the Taliban. </span>

Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suhrke 10</span></span> (Astri Suhrke, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March 2010, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.cmi.no/file/?997]]) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The insurgency has ... developments were going. </span>

This provincial security regime is comparatively the best way to stabilize Afghanistan 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fisher 9</span></span> (Max Fisher, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/ | Suo) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">President </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Obama has ... foreseeable exit strategy. </span>

Inevitable destabilization that results from an imposed central government leads to the violent fragmentation of Afghanistan, resulting in multiple nuclear wars 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 7</span></span> (Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639) 

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Although disliked and ... Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan! </span>

Uncertain nuclear guarantees and great power interests mean that Central Asia escalation is uniquely likely 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Blank 2k</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen J. Blank, Expert on the Soviet Bloc for the Strategic Studies Institute, 2000, “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, World Affairs. 9-22) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">many </span>structural ... settling the situation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.(77)</span>

No risk of Taliban takeover – withdrawal would kill their cohesion and local support 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pillar 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul R. Pillar, 28-year veteran of the Central Intelligence Agency, a visiting professor at Georgetown University for security studies and a member of the Center for Peace and Security Studies, 10/14/09, “Counterterrorism and Stability in Afghanistan”, http://cpass.georgetown.edu/documents/AfghanHASCPillarOct09_1.doc | Suo) </span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">This observation sheds ...</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> as an occupation.</span> </span>

Independently, counterinsurgency strategy pushes militants into Pakistan 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington citing Bacevich 9</span></span> (George Washington, former adjunct professor and head writer of the Washington blog, Andrew J. Bacevich, professor of international relations at Boston University, December 4, 2009, “A Cheaper and More Effective Military Strategy for Afghanistan”, http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2009/12/better-military-strategy-for.html | Suo) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the chief ...</span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> the entire world.</span> </span>

Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pitt 9</span></span> (William Pitt, a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence, 5/8/09, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) 

<span style="display: block; text-align: -webkit-auto;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But a suicide ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> should we all.</span>


==Al Qaeda== 
Contention 3: Al Qaeda 

Al Qaeda is actively seeking nuclear weapons for use – nuclear energy expansion means risks are multiplying fast 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Evans 10</span></span> (Michael Evans, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12, 2010, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece | Suo) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Terrorists including </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">al-Qaeda ... bombs are available."</span></span>

That is the single greatest threat to global security – material has already been stolen and an attack is coming in 2013 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hall 10</span></span> (Mimi Hall, staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm | Suo) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Obama said <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">"</span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the ... attack" by 2013.</span> </span>

Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack – //there can only be one//
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arkedis 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As deliberations about ...</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> space it can access.</span></span>

A nuclear strike by al Qaeda causes US-China-Russia war, environmental collapse, and extinction 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Morgan 9</span></span> (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea <span style="color: black;">Futures</span>, <span style="color: black;">Volume 41, Issue 10</span>, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In a remarkable ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> of strategic weapons</span>

Al Qaeda represents a uniquely existential threat – religious ideology short-circuits deterrence 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gorka 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sebastian L. v. Gorka, Faculty of the Irregular Warfare Department of the National Defense University, Washington DC, and member of the US Atlantic Council’s Strategic Advisers’ Group, 5/17/10, “Al-Qaeda and Afghanistan in Strategic Context: Counterinsurgency versus Counterterrorism (WP)”, http://www.realinstitutoelcano.org/wps/portal/rielcano_eng/Content?WCM_GLOBAL_CONTEXT=/elcano/elcano_in/zonas_in/dt15-2010 | Suo) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Almost immediately </span><span class="UnderlineChar">after ...<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> not be achievable</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

US presence strengthens al Qaeda – it drives militant groups to ally with it and increases recruiting 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clemons et al. 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bruce Ackerman, Yale University, Gordon Adams, American University and Stimson Center, Amjad Atallah, New America Foundation, James Bamford, Author/Documentary Producer, Darcy Burner, Progressive Caucus Action Fund, James Clad, National Defense University, Steve Clemons, New America Foundation and The Washington Note, Juan Cole, University of Michigan and Informed Comment, Patrick Cronin, Center for a New American Security, Arnaud de Borchgrave, Center for Strategic & International Studies, Graciana del Castillo, Columbia University, Michael C. Desch, University of Notre Dame, Robert H. Donaldson, University of Tulsa, Bernard I. Finel, National War College, James K. Galbraith, University of Texas-Austin, James Goldgeier, George Washington University, William C. Goodfellow, Center for International Policy, Selig S. Harrison, Center for International Policy, Leo Hindery, Jr., Chair, US Economy/Smart Globalization Initiative at the New America Foundation, Matthew P. Hoh, Former U.S. Marine Officer and former Department of State official, Michael Intriligator, University of California, Los Angeles and The Milken Institute, Robert Jervis, Columbia University, Sean Kay, Ohio Wesleyan University, Parag Khanna, New America Foundation and former Senior Geopolitical Officer, US Special Operations Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, W. Patrick Lang, Former Defense Intelligence Officer, South Asia and Publisher, Sic Semper Tyrannis, Flynt Leverett, New America Foundation and Race for Iran, Hillary Mann Leverett, Yale University and Race for Iran, Anatol Lieven, King’s College London and New America Foundation, Justin Logan, Cato Institute, John Mueller, Ohio State University, Robert A. Pape, University of Chicago, Paul R. Pillar, Georgetown University, Barry Posen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Jason Rosenbaum, Writer, Priya Satia, Stanford University, Stephen Schlesinger, Century Foundation, Sherle R. Schwenninger, New America Foundation, Michael Shank, Office of US Congressman Michael Honda and Afghanistan Taskforce Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus, J.P. Singh, Georgetown University, Richard Vague, The Governor’s Woods Foundation, American Strategy Program Leadership Council, and New America Foundation, Martin Walker, Woodrow Wilson Center, Stephen M. Walt, Harvard University, Col Lawrence B. Wilkerson (USA, ret), College of William & Mary, Former Chief of Staff, US Department of State, Jeffrey Winters, Northwestern University, Leighton Woodhouse, Labor Organizer, Mosharraf Zaidi, International Development Expert and Columnist, 8/19/10, “A NEW WAY FORWARD: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”, http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/?page_id=27) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In short, </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a complete</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> by similar motivations. </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">A targeted counterterrorism force posture is sufficient to keep the Taliban down and prevent the recreation of al Qaeda safe havens in Afghanistan</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cortright 9</span></span> (David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917 | Suo)</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="UnderlineChar">This analysis suggests ... with greater justice.</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Withdrawal is a prerequisite to effective counterterrorism – presence creates a legitimacy gap and reduces leverage</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boyle 10</span></span> (Michael J. Boyle, Professor at the University of St. Andrews - Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?”, International Affairs 86: 2 (2010) 333–353 | Suo)</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="UnderlineChar">Another set of ... essential counterterrorism goals.</span></span>


A large footprint makes Pakistani cooperation impossible – that’s necessary to solve terror 
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)</span>


<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The</span> Obama <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">administration's ... be against foreigners.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">10</span>



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]