[[toc]]
=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Contact me</span>= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;"> If there are any cites you would like me to put up you an email me at: anik360ster |AT| gmail |dot| com.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Full text only by email.</span>**

=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Tools </span>= 

**[[http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/page/pdf/2010-2011+%E2%80%94+Edgemont+%28NY%29+%E2%80%94+Anik+Chaudhry+%26+XY|Download Wiki as PDF]]**
**[[http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/page/code/2010-2011+%E2%80%94+Edgemont+(NY)+%E2%80%94+Anik+Chaudhry+%26+XY|View Page Source]]**
**[[2010-2011 policy teams from Edgemont|View Other Teams from Edgemont]]**


=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Affirmative - Ethics Aff</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1 – What I think should happen</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**Monticello:**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The United States federal government should substantially reduce United States counternarcotics presence from Afghanistan.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Scranton:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The United States federal government should remove all of its troops from Kuwait. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**The United States federal government should remove its military presence from Kuwait.** </span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 – Vote Affirmative</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">You are probably expecting some ridiculous tirade about nuclear war here. However, I affirm the plan simply because I know it is a good idea. This starting point of an unconditional must effectively establishes an ethics of the real. Understanding the importance of desire and achieving ethical subjectivity.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Zupancic 2k</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Ethics of the Real; p. 57-58</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">We might thus ... that of the Real.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Against the attitude of compromise and accepting the consequences of our ethical act means possibly accepting catastrophe. We may not know all the consequences that our act will have on the economy, ideology, politics, or warfare, but your endorsement of the speech act is critical to freeing our minds and opening up the space for ethics we as people see fit. We know the plan is a good idea because our individual ethics tell us so.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Zizek 4</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Revolution at the Gates; P. 243-244</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">The supreme example ... as an exhilarating retaliation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">For too long within debate, we have enabled our minds to be constrained to justifying ethics only according to the justifications of so called experts, toying with numbers and claiming arbitrary internal link chains. We must be militant in our ethics in the sense of not relying on any external or higher authority in the development of our political imagination. The endorsement of the 1AC is an affirmation of ideological freedom to see our own line of what is ethical. __Quite simply, we ask you to vote affirmative as the highest ethical act. Seeing the potential of what your mind can do, unconstrained.__</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Zizek 4</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 90%;">Conversations with Zizek; P. 18-19</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">For Zizek, ... to risk the impossible. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">This affirmation is nowhere near bigotry. We don’t think we should do the plan for no reason, we think we should do it because WE as people know we should do it. Restructuring horizons of how we think about action is impossible if we always ground it in attempts at objective calculus.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Zizek 2K</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(ethics of the real; p. 9- 11 Senior Researcher, Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Alenka Zupancic's book ... own official ideological request.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">This is an incalculable ethical directive – accepting their risk calculus naturalizes violence making life meaningless, and makes the determination of reality impossible.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Zizek & Daly ‘4</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Slavoj Zizek, Senior Researcher, Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, and Glyn Daly, Lecturer and Instructor, Political Theory and Thought, Northampton University, 2004, Conversations With Zizek, p. 14-19)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">This is not ... to risk the impossible.</span>

=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Affirmative - Counterinsurgency Affirmative</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1 – Hegemony</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">US heg is on brink of overstretch – COIN doctrine in Afghan risks collapse of US global leadership.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Kretkowski ‘10 </span>**__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Over the winter ... a reinvigorated Russia</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">COIN kills public support for US leadership.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Innocent and Carpenter ‘9</span>**__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Former national security ... security than would withdrawal.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Overstretch kills heg.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Layne ‘9 </span>**__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Christopher Layne, PhD is Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University. International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Summer 2009)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">U.S ... William Morrow, 1972</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Heg prevents all nuke war scenarios.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Kagan ‘7</span>**__

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [Robert “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Nationalism in all ... provide an easier path.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 – Afghanistan</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">COIN props up unpopular and ineffective central government.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Preble ‘10 </span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?” http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">The appropriate question ... elsewhere in the world.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">COIN is hostile to warlords – they underpin local security.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Friedman ‘9 </span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Benjamin H. Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security studies, September 3, 2009, “Making Enemies in Afghanistan”, http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/03/making-enemies-in-afghanistan/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Yaroslav Trofimov’s article ... a possibility worth considering.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Enabling warlords to provide local security is key to Afghan stability – centralization causes backlash.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Fisher ‘9</span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Max Fisher, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">President Obama has ... a foreseeable exit strategy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Instability leads to nuclear Al Qaeda.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Morgan 7</span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Although disliked and ... pitted against the US.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Nuclear Al Qaeda causes extinction.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Morgan ‘9 </span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea [[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science/journal/00163287|Futures]], [[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science?_ob=PublicationURL&_tockey=%23TOC%235805%232009%23999589989%231515128%23FLA%23&_cdi=5805&_pubType=J&view=c&_auth=y&_acct=C000014438&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=209690&md5=7eaadd08919055b45011bba80bf06023|Volume 41, Issue 10]], December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">In a remarkable ... use of strategic weapons.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; line-height: 21px;">﻿Plan</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">The United States federal government should withdraw forces dedicated to counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan. We reserve the right to clarify. *The we reserve the right to clarify is 10 lines down and not a part of our plan text so don't make silly attempts to PIC out of it*.</span>**

==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Contention 3 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; line-height: 19px;">– Solvency</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Plan builds self-sustaining Afghan stability using local solutions.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Friedman ‘10 </span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(THOMAS L, American journalist, columnist and multi Pulitzer Prize winning author. He is an op-ed contributor to The New York Times, whose column appears twice weekly. He has written extensively on foreign affairs including global trade, the Middle East and environmental issues. He has won the Pulitzer Prize three times, twice for International Reporting (1983, 1988) and once for Commentary (2002), June 22, 2010, “What’s Second Prize?”, https://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/23/opinion/23friedman.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">It is not ... big or lose small.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Counterterrorism checks creation of safe havens.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Cortright ‘9</span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(David Cortright, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, OCTOBER 19, 2009, “No Easy Way Out”, http://www.americamagazine.org/content/article.cfm?article_id=11917)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">This analysis s ... anduggests . with greater justice</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Counterterrorism mission ensures Afghan stability while destroying Al Qaeda.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Long ‘9</span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Austin Long is an assistant professor at Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and co-author with William Rosenau of The Phoenix Program and Contemporary Counterinsurgency at RAND, 10/13/09, “What a CT mission in Afghanistan would actually look like”, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/10/13/what_a_ct_mission_in_afghanistan_would_actually_look_like)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">In a recent ... of my next post.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Arkedis ‘9 </span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">As deliberations about ... space it can access.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">No case turns – CT mission in place now.</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Cooper and Landler 7/31/10</span>**__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(Helene, White House Correspondent to NY Times and diplomatic correspondent for NY Times to Washington, and Mark, diplomatic correspondent for NY Times to Washington and former foreign correspondent, “Targeted Killing is the New US Focus in Afghanistan,” NY Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/01/world/asia/01afghan.html?_r=1&scp=2&sq=afghanistan&st=cse)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Eight months later ... Senator,” he replied.</span>

=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Negative - Topicality</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A-SPEC</span>== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">ASPEC</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Rotunda ‘1</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(18 Const. Commentary 319, “THE COMMERCE CLAUSE, THE POLITCAL QUESTION DOCTRINE, AND MORRISON,” lexis)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Framers of … of Congress.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Social justice education</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Komesar ‘94</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(Neil, John and Rylla Boshard Profesor @ U of Wisconsin, PhD in economics from U Chicago, Imperfect Alternatives: Choosing Institutions in Law, Economics, and Public Policy, p. 4-5)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ambiguity and discretion …vow of non-institutionalism.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Presumption</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Brovero ‘94</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(Adrienne, Immigration Policies Expert, “Immigration Regulation: Borderline Policies,” www.wfu.edu/Studentorganizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm )</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The problem is …an agent of action.</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Boots on the Ground</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Presence means boots on ground</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">__Dictionary Of Military Ter__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">ms</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">, 3rd Ed. 2004, 187.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Presence: The fact ... a particular area.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%; line-height: 19px;">Vote neg on limits – technology and weapons systems affs are an entirely separate literature base opening the floodgates, crushing in-depth research and effective argumentation skills﻿.</span>**

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Presence is Troops</span>== 


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Presence is troops</span>**
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Thomason ‘2</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">(James, July, Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf)</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS ... call for them.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">Vote neg on limits – they don’t target any type of troops making them untopical. </span>**



=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">﻿Negative - Disads</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">START DA</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">START will pass – Lugar’s new substitute resolution</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Rogin 9/7/10</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(Josh, Foreign Policy, "Kerry's draft resolution on New START already facing Hill pushback," http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/07/kerrys_draft_resolution_on_new_start_already_facing_hill_pushback)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The initial draft … GOP committee votes.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Reducing foreign military activism is overwhelmingly unpopular – destroys polcap</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Logan ‘10</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">Justin Logan, Associate Director of Foreign Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, March 23, 2010, “The Domestic Bases of America's Grand Strategy,” online: http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11606</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Domestic politics … skewed toward activism.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Political capital’s key to passage</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Rogov ‘10</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(Sergey, director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute, January, BBC, “Russian Russian pundit views Obama's first year, prospects for relations with USA,” p. Lexis)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The domestic political … the United States.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">START is key to US-Russian relations, heg, and nonprolif regime</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Butler 7/23</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(Desmond, 2010, “US-Russia nuke treaty facing hurdles in US Senate”, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5iwGbzbS9cELaiIfmBjxLP1o4G8-QD9H4KUL80)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">WASHINGTON — The once smooth …this is significant."</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">START solves nuclear war, rogue prolif, terrorism, and US-Russian relations</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Collins 10</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(James Collins, Ambassador to Russia from 1997 – 2001, Director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, recipient of the Secretary of State's Award for Distinguished Service; the Department of State's Distinguished Honor Award; the Secretary of State’s Award for Career Achievement; the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service; and the NASA Medal for Distinguished Service, 2/16/2010. “START is key to reducing the nuclear threat,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=30993)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But arguments from …we must begin.</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Deterrence (Afghanistan)</span>== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Withdrawal exacerbates regional instability and obliterates primacy</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Stephens 9 </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">[Bret, foreign-affairs columnist of the Wall Street Journal and deputy editorial page editor, responsible for the editorial pages of the Journal's European and Asian editions, was editor-in-chief of the Jerusalem Post in 2002-2004, “The Afghan Stakes,” 9-7, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203440104574398442481337048.html#articleTabs%3Darticle]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">So George Will …another 9/11 anniversary.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Global nuclear omnicide</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">Bradley </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Thayer</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">, Professor, Security Studies, Missouri State University, 11/</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">06</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy.”</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Those arguing for …the world's ills.</span>

=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Negative - CPs</span>= 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Scranton:</span>**
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The United States should be removed off the face of the planet. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The United States federal government should phase-out to the point of elimination of its presence in the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.** </span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">You are probably expecting some ridiculous tirade about nuclear war here. However, I affirm the counterplan simply because I know it is a good idea. This starting point of an unconditional must effectively establishes an ethics of the real. Understanding the importance of desire and achieving ethical subjectivity.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Zupancic 2k</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">Ethics of the Real; p. 57-58</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We might thus ... that of the Real.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Against the attitude of compromise and accepting the consequences of our ethical act means possibly accepting catastrophe. We may not know all the consequences that our act will have on the economy, ideology, politics, or warfare, but your endorsement of the speech act is critical to freeing our minds and opening up the space for ethics we as people see fit. We know the counterplan is a good idea because our individual ethics tell us so.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Zizek 4</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">Revolution at the Gates; P. 243-244</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The supreme example ... as an exhilarating retaliation.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">For too long within debate, we have enabled our minds to be constrained to justifying ethics only according to the justifications of so called experts, toying with numbers and claiming arbitrary internal link chains. We must be militant in our ethics in the sense of not relying on any external or higher authority in the development of our political imagination. The endorsement of the 1NC is an affirmation of ideological freedom to see our own line of what is ethical. __Quite simply, we ask you to vote affirmative as the highest ethical act. Seeing the potential of what your mind can do, unconstrained.__</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Zizek 4</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Conversations with Zizek; P. 18-19</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">For Zizek, ... to risk the impossible.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">This affirmation is nowhere near bigotry. We don’t think we should do the plan for no reason, we think we should do it because WE as people know we should do it. Restructuring horizons of how we think about action is impossible if we always ground it in attempts at objective calculus.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Zizek 2K</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(ethics of the real; p. 9- 11 Senior Researcher, Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Alenka Zupancic's book ... own official ideological request.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">This is an incalculable ethical directive – accepting their risk calculus naturalizes violence making life meaningless, and makes the determination of reality impossible.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Zizek & Daly ‘4</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(Slavoj Zizek, Senior Researcher, Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, and Glyn Daly, Lecturer and Instructor, Political Theory and Thought, Northampton University, 2004, Conversations With Zizek, p. 14-19)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This is not ... to risk the impossible.</span>



=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Negative - Ks</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Normativity K</span>== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The Prewritten Script. The aff’s “should” draws us into normative thought.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">Pierre </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Schlag</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 19</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">91</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">, “Normativity and the Politics of Form,” Lexis-Nexis</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Against this backdrop … explicit, they collapse.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Negative Portable Impact. This desensitizes us to real-world suffering as people outside of debate.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">Richard </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Delgado</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 19</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">91</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">, “Norms and Normal Science,” Lexis-Nexis</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But what is … with subsistence claims.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Vote negative as an educator to refuse normativity.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">Pierre </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Schlag</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 19</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">90</span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">, “Normative and Nowhere to Go,” Lexis-Nexis</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">All of this …eaucratic logic of institutions.</span>

=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Negative - Case</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hegemony Bad - I-Law Turn</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Heg key to I-Law</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Mead ‘4</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(Mead, Senior Fellow, Council of Foreign Relations, 2K4, Walter Russell, Power, Terror, Peace, and War: America’s Grand Strategy in a World at Risk, p. 175)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This problem will ... like international law meaningful.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Collapses friend/enemy distinctions</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Luoma-Aho 2K</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(Mika Luoma-Aho, Professor at the University of Laplandm The European Legacy, Vol. 5, No. 5 pg. 703-716)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In the context ... in and over space.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Rienhard ‘4</span>**__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px;">(Kenneth Rienhard, Professor of Jewish Studies, UCLA, 2004, UCLA Center for Jewish Studies, “Towards a Political Theology of the Neighbor,” http://www.cjs.ucla.edu/Mellon/Towards_Political_Theology.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If the concept ... ” (PF 83).</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>