[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">I affirm, resolved: The abuse of illegal drugs ought to be treated as a matter of public health, not of criminal justice. </span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">I define:</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Public Health:</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> Efforts organized by society to protect, promote, and restore the people’s health. […]the goals remain the same: to reduce the amount of disease, premature death, and disease-produced discomfort and disability in the population. Public health is thus a social institution, a discipline, and a practice. </span></span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">–Australia’s Governmental Health Dictionary 1996 [http://www.aihw.gov.au/publications/aus/ah96/ah96-x04.html] acc. 10/27/10</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">__Criminal Justice:__ The network of courts and tribunals which deal with criminal law and its enforcement. </span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">-Uscourts.gov [http://www.id.uscourts.gov/terms-cd.htm] acc. 10/27/2010</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">The value is positive liberty. Positive liberty, as defined by the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy [http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/liberty-positive-negative/] acc. 10/27/10, is the possibility of acting — or the fact of acting — in such a way as to take control of one's life and realize one's fundamental purposes. This value provides a moral ultimatum through widespread improvements. As more and more individuals are able to realize and succeed to the best of their ability they increase livelihood in their community. Simply put, effective individuals result in an effective society. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">The requirements to obtain positive liberty stem from individualized care. Reinvention can only be obtained through an opportunity to achieve a new education. To weigh which option, public health or criminal justice, has the best system of (re-inventive) education the criterion will be the Banking Concept of Education. In the debate over quantity v. quality, quality must always emerge on top in order for a society to give its members the unique opportunity to develop into unique individuals. For individualized quality to be upheld, a distinct choice of specialization must be made by the individual or in the best interest of the specific individual. All are unique and deserve unique treatment. If quantity emerges victorious, it will be the ultimate negative impact within any round.</span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">//<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Without In-Depth Education, Humanity cannot be Human </span>//</span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Paulo </span>__Freire. [Doctor in Education and Philosophy, Creator of the Banking Theory].__ <span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">The Banking Concept of Education. </span>__1970.__ </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://faculty.dwc.edu/wellman/Friere.htm]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> acc. 10/28/10</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%; margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Education thus becomes an act of depositing, in which the students are the depositories and the teacher is the depositor. Instead of communicating, the teacher issues communiques and makes deposits which the students patiently receive, memorize, and repeat. This is the "banking" concept of education, in which the scope of action allowed to the students extends only as far as receiving, filing, and storing the deposits. They do, it is true, have the opportunity to become collectors or cataloguers of the things they store. But in the last analysis</span>__, it is men themselves who are filed away through the lack of creativity, transformation, and knowledge in this (at best) misguided system. For apart from inquiry, apart from the praxis, men cannot be truly human. Knowledge emerges only through invention and reinvention, through the restless, impatient, continuing, hopeful inquiry men pursue in the world, with the world, and with each other.__ </span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">Throughout the remainder of the case, the Affirmative will prove that the benefits of positive liberty and the banking concept are unique to the Aff side.</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">Contention One: The Criminal Justice System cannot provide individualized care. </span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">Sub-Point A: The interpretation of law is binding</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">For the dominate portion of our time in the current legal system, X offense can only receive X,Y or Z punishments. Punishment X can only have so many variations; the same applies to punishments Y and Z. With minimal flexibility, the individual’s unique needs will not be met with gusto. In this system, individuals cannot realize their full potential.</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">Sub-Point B: The criminal justice system does not solve for addictions</span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 115%;">//<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Prison is not Effective for Drug-Users </span>//</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">Dr. Wendell</span> Rosevear [Doctor specializing in addiction recovery]. <span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">Drugs in Perspective: “Get Real”. Socail Alternative,</span> 2000<span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">. PDF-google scholar: “Drugs in Prison: ‘Get Real’”. Acc. 10/28/2010 </span></span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%; margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">The Netherlands, which has more tolerant attitudes, has an imprisonment rate of 36/100,000. More money in prisons means less in education and health care.</span> __Prisons are__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">the most expensive,</span> __inefficient__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">way of dealing with the problem</span> __and__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">I believe</span> __actually make__<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">s</span> __it worse.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">While many factors contribute to imprisonment I assess </span>__drugs are the major factor with about 80% of people in prison having an alcohol or drug problem.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">With America falling so spectacularly, I don’t see why we should follow them. </span></span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%; margin-left: 0.5in;">If we look at relative costs: Methadone costs - $2000/person/yr, Therapeutic Communities costs ~ $16,000/person/year, Jails costs ~ $50,000/person/year, Untreated Addiction costs ~ $75,000 - $13,000/person/year </span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%; margin-left: 0.5in;">__Up to 25% of people in prison continue to use heroin (N.S.W. Prison Health Survey) and up to 40% use some illegal drug__<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">. Dr. Kate Dolan found up to 10% of Intravenous Drug users share needles in prison. With 38% being Hepatitis C carriers you can see how disease becomes an additional personal and health care cost. </span></span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%; margin-left: 0.5in;">__When individuals continue to use drugs in prisons, the system feels loss of power and__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">face and with ‘mud on their fact’</span> __wants to justify ‘coming down harder’ with strategies such as__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">locking individuals in indefinite</span> __solitary confinement__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">after overdose or drug use (which I see repeatedly)</span> __and justifying forced internal body cavity searches, strip searches and observed urine tests which make individuals feel degraded__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">and ‘raped.’ To deny someone (prisoner or visitor) a choice in relation to protecting their body is rape even if you use the power of the state to justify it. The “Tough on Drugs’ strategy justifies rape, the very crime our society imprisons individuals for committing. To use the same strategies that cause the problem is to discredit oneself. Strip and Internal Body Cavity searches can happen to ordinary citizens coming through an airport as well as people in prison. </span></span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">In the criminal justice system there will be no opportunity for re-inventive education, which, as explained above remove humanity’s ability to be human.</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">Sub-Point C: Individuals cannot reach their full potential under the circumstances of criminal justice.</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">With inflexible applications of punishment that cannot be specifically altered for the specific individual, and a system that degrades its participants, the banking concept cannot be upheld. Meaning, positive liberty will not be reached. Society, and its individuals cannot reach their full potential.</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">Contention Two: Public Health focuses on Individualized Care</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">Sub-Point A: Care is based around individual needs</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">In public health, treatment options can truly be focused around the individual. Whether the underlying cause for abuse needs attention, or simply the addiction, public health gives us the opportunity to prioritize the individual.</span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">Sub-Point B: Individualized care solves </span>
<span style="background: white; font-family: Times New Roman; line-height: 115%;">Individuals are given the opportunity to educate themselves through public health due to its ability to treat them with uniqueness. This impact is unique to the affirmative side, and accordingly you must affirm.</span>


==Negative== 
<span style="background: white; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">I negate, resolved: The abuse of illegal drugs ought to be treated as a matter of public health, not of criminal justice. </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">I define:</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Public Health:</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> Efforts organized […] to reduce the amount of disease, premature death, and disease-produced discomfort and disability in the population.  </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> –Australia’s Governmental Health Dictionary 1996 [http://www.aihw.gov.au/publications/aus/ah96/ah96-x04.html] acc. 10/27/10</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Criminal Justice:__ The network of courts and tribunals which deal with criminal law and its enforcement. </span></span>
<span style="background: white; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">-Uscourts.gov [http://www.id.uscourts.gov/terms-cd.htm] acc. 10/27/2010</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">{Abuse: <span style="color: black;">use wrongly or improperly or excessively </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">-Princeton Wordnet [</span><span style="color: green; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.google.com/url?q=http://wordnetweb.princeton.edu/perl/webwn%3Fs%3Dabuse&sa=X&ei=GFbKTOjpMYy-sQOTj7T3Dg&ved=0CBgQpAMoAA&usg=AFQjCNF97omkPvuZeTUYrHEY69T6_2ulTw|wordnetweb.princeton.edu/perl/webwn]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">] acc. 10/28/10} </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The value for the round will be justice defined by Santa Clara University as giving each person his or her due. This value creates a ripple effect in the preservation of value and accordingly, is preferable.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The criterion for the round will be the rule of law, defined as rule under law. No section of government or individual can be place above the law regardless of extenuating circumstances. Justice will be upheld because everyone will be given their legal due. As long as legal regard for the law exists, justice will be preserved. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Contention One: The abuse of illegal drugs is not a victimless crime </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Sub-Point A: Purchasing Illegal Drugs provides direct funding for anti-government groups.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt; mso-outline-level: 1;">//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Drug Trafficking is linked to tens of thousands of deaths,  </span></span>//</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">BBC News, September 2010 </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__Drug-related violence in Mexico has killed nearly 30,000 people in the first 45 months of the current government, and its fast increase has been unstoppable.If the killings continue to increase at the current rate that total will rise to about 75,000 by the time the government's term in office ends in December 2012__.<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The government's stance against the growing number of casualties in the war on drugs has been to emphasise the inevitability of violence.In a recent interview, President Felipe Calderon said: "I wish there was less violence, but - being honest - that is not foreseeable in the short term, in which high levels of violence will remain. Violence will decline over the medium and long terms."</span> __A particularly frustrating aspect of the government's war against organised crime is that - despite its high cost in terms of human lives - the war has not led to the decline of kidnappings, extortion and human trafficking. In addition, frequent arrests of drug lords have had three highly detrimental effects: an increase in the number of criminal organisations__ <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(given the divisions that these arrests cause within a cartel);</span> __higher levels of violence; and territorial expansion of organised crime__ <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(which involves the invasion of new spaces). </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">In addition; </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt; mso-outline-level: 1;">//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Terrorism is financed by drug trafficking </span></span>//</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt; mso-outline-level: 1;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The United Nations Office on Drug and Crime, 2009 </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">21 November - Although</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> __the link between terrorism and__ </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">other related crimes, such as</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> __drug trafficking, is evident__ __and has been recognized by the United Nations Security Council__,</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> a thorough understanding is needed in order to develop solid strategies to prevent and disrupt these crimes. Speaking at a recent conference in Istanbul, "The Role of Drug Trafficking in Promoting and Financing Today's Global Terrorism," jointly organized by Turkey, the United States and Colombia, UNODC</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> __Senior Terrorism Prevention Officer Irka Kuleshnyk said__ </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">that "While it is difficult to establish how widely terrorist groups are involved in the illicit drug trade, or</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> __the breadth and nature of cooperation between these two criminal groups, the magnitude of the numbers involved make the relationship worrisome."__</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">According to the UNODC's World Drug Report 2007</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, __the total potential value__ __of Afghanistan's 2006 opium harvest__ </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">accruiing to farmers, laboratory owners and Afghan traffickers</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> __reached about $US3.1 billion.__ </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">In addition, it is reported that</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> __in 2004, some 400 tons of cocaine was exported from one Latin American country, with an estimated domestic value of US$ 2 billion__. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">How much of this money is used for perpetrating acts of terrorism? Estimates vary. But even a small percentage would be more than sufficient for some individuals or groups to plan, finance and carry out terrorist acts. Indeed</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> __drug trafficking has provided funding for insurgency and those who use terrorist violence in various regions throughout the world,__ </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">including in transit regions. In some cases,</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> __drugs have even been the currency used in the commission of terrorist attacks, as was the case in the Madrid bombings__. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Effective tools do however, exist which can chip away at - and eventually contribute to breaking - the links. For example, at the international level there is a common legal framework consisting of 16 universal anti-terrorist instruments, as well as relevant UN Security Council resolutions. Included in the latter is a series of UN resolutions imposing sanctions - such as the freezing of assets, a travel ban and an arms embargo, on members of the Taliban, Al-Qaida and their associates. There are currently 124 entities and 226 individuals on this list. Illicit drug traders and terrorists are not some mysterious entity, Kuleshnyk says. Rather they are usually groups and networks that operate in ways that can be understood, identified, tracked and ultimately disrupted. We need to integrate our work to build up more effective and efficient networks so that we may defeat these illegitimate networks that perpetuate so much destruction throughout the world.</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The majority of drug purchases directly fund these crimes against humanity. The information is available for everyone; we cannot let those who fund these crimes go unpunished. Ignorance is not bliss for any crime and we must enforce the law to give the victims, and society, justice.  </span></span>
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]