<span style="display: block; margin-left: 2em; padding-bottom: 3px;"> </span>
=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding: 5px;">**January-February**</span>= 
<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Affirmative**</span>

**Deterrence AFF**

There are three sections to the affirmative case.

Part one, interpretational issues:

‘Charged’ indicates the starting point for resolutional arguments, but provides no end point. The term “criminal justice system” indicates the scope of the resolution. Frase and Weidner write,
Richard S. Frase [Professor of Criminal Law, University of Minnesota Law] & Robert R. Weidner [Associate Professor, Univeristy of Minnesota @ Deluth]. Criminal Justice System - Structural And Theoretical Components Of Criminal Justice Systems, The Systems In Operation, The Importance Of Viewing Criminal Justice As A System <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://law.jrank.org/pages/858/Criminal-Justice-System.html#ixzz1A69oqnSa]]</span>

Criminal justice systems include...in criminal justice issues.

The resolution is only a question between deterrence and rehab. Chamberlin explains the division of ground on the topic.
Copyright (c) 2001 Boston College Law School Boston College Law Review March, 2001 42 B.C. L. Rev 391 LENGTH: 17209 words NOTE: Not Kids Anymore: A Need for Punishment and Deterrence in the Juvenile Justice System NAME: Christine Chamberlin

Although the current juvenile...as productive citizens.

This interpretation is good for debate for the following reasons.
First, ground.
Second, strategy construction.

Part two is the evaluative framework. We defend a post fiat utility calculus that models governmental decision-making. A state cannot be obligated to act in a manner that is inadvisable. Public policy must look at the consequences first and act as a collective body. Goodin writes,
[Robert E. Goodin. Philosopher of Political Theory, Public Policy, and Applied Ethics. Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy. Cambridge University Press, 1995. p. 26-7]

The great adventure of...defensible public philosophy.

And the affirmative should be able to choose a framework to defend as long as that framework is both comparative and sufficient. Affirmative Framework Choice solves issues of competitive equity. O’Donnell writes,
“And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate” Timothy M. O’Donnell Director of Debate University of Mary Washington

Second, AFC ensures...discuss half the time.

And, AFC ensures the education of debates. O’Donnell 2 writes,
“And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate” Timothy M. O’Donnell Director of Debate University of Mary Washington

Third, AFC has...where this is possible.

Part three is the contention. I contend deterrence decreases crime rates.

First, trying juveniles in adult courts generally deters other juveniles. Youth who are sent through the adult system face higher incarceration rates and punishment than in juvenile systems. Steinberg writes.
“Social Welfare and Fairness in Juvenile Crime Regulation” Elizabeth S. Scott* and Laurence Steinberg 71 La. L. Rev. 35. 2010. Elizabeth Scott is the Harold R. Medina Professor of Law at Columbia University. Laurence Steinberg is the Laura Carnell Distinguished University Professor at Temple University.


Youths who are convicted...a juvenile facility.


And, these higher incarceration rates empirically decrease the number of crimes committed. Yahya writes,
Moin A. Yahya. Deterring Roper's Juveniles: Using a Law and Economics Approach to Show that the Logic of Roper Implies
that Juveniles Require the Death Penalty More Than Adults” Summer, 2006 111 Penn St. L. Rev. 53 Assistant Professor of Law, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada. J.D., George Mason University


The economist Steven Levitt ...opportunities for juveniles. n175


In addition, further studies have shown that the possibility of entering the adult criminal justice system deters juveniles. Yahya 2 writes,
Moin A. Yahya. Deterring Roper's Juveniles: Using a Law and Economics Approach to Show that the Logic of Roper Implies
that Juveniles Require the Death Penalty More Than Adults” Summer, 2006 111 Penn St. L. Rev. 53 Assistant Professor of Law, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada. J.D., George Mason University


Professor Levitt also...majority was eighteen.


Harsher Sentences decrease recidivism rates. Abrams writes, David Abrams [University of Pennsylvania Law School and Wharton]. Building Criminal Capital vs Specific Deterrence: The Effect of Incarceration Length on Recidivism. 2009. JEL Classifications. 

Region 3 contains about ...by behavioral biases (salience, etc). 

This is statistically verified. Hjalmarsson writes, Copyright (c) 2009 The University of Chicago The Journal of Law & Economics November, 2009 52 J. Law & Econ. 779 LENGTH: 12198 words ARTICLE: Juvenile Jails: A Path to the Straight and Narrow or to Hardened Criminality? NAME: Randi Hjalmarsson, University of Maryland BIO: The data utilized in this paper were housed in and made available by the National Juvenile Court Data Archive, which is maintained by the National Center for Juvenile Justice in Pittsburgh, and supported by a grant from the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, U.S. Department of Justice. These data were originally collected by the Office of the Administrator for the Courts, State of Washington. Similarly, 

there are numerous... answer this question. 

And, the impact of juvenile crime is staggering. They commit millions of crimes each year. The Online Lawyer Source writes, Online Lawyer Source. Juvenile Crime Statistics. Online research center for legal topics. 2010.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.onlinelawyersource.com/criminal_law/juvenile/statistics.html]]</span>

Juvenile crime statistics...and 34 percent are strangers.


**Levinas AC**

Ought is defined as a moral obligation so I value morality.The bulk of ethical theories assume that agents have fundamental qualities, like reason, which are used to stabilize the subject. However, grounding Morality in supposedly fundamental qualities justifies the worst forms of violence by setting the parameters of who is considered relevant. Dillon writes.
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Michael Dillon [Director of the Security and War MA, BA MA PhD. The Political Subject of Violence. Manchester University Press. 1993. Google Books</span> "It might have once been...home in any other house." 

Instead, Morality must recognize that Being itself is a radically interdependent condition and absent our relation to Alterity, moral subjectivity disappears and all that remains is leaving only the terror of pure materiality. Nealon writes. 
<span style="font-size: 50%;">Nealon, Jeffrey T. (Jeffrey Thomas)[ Liberal Arts Research Professor of English at Penn State] 'Junk' and the Other: Burroughs and Levinas on Drugs. Postmodern Culture - Volume 6, Number 1, September 1995</span>
"In fact, intoxication...from the there is" 

Subjectivity is a reenacted performance of responding to the other. Nealon 2 writes. 
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> Nealon, Jeffrey T. (Jeffrey Thomas)[ Liberal Arts Research Professor of English at Penn State] //'Junk' and the Other: Burroughs and Levinas on Drugs//. Postmodern Culture - Volume 6, Number 1, September 1995</span>
"Subjectivity is torn away...the call of alterity." 

This interdependent state makes necessary and infinite, asymmetrical responsibility to the other. Nealon 3 writes. 
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> Nealon, Jeffrey T. (Jeffrey Thomas)[ Liberal Arts Research Professor of English at Penn State] //'Junk' and the Other: Burroughs and Levinas on Drugs//. Postmodern Culture - Volume 6, Number 1, September 1995</span>
"However, this hypostasis is not... and beyond the said."


Therefore, the value criterion is actualizing our responsibility towards the Other. **Levinas’s responsibility is best understood as the idea of a moral conscience as opposed to the discharging of a specific duty. Perpich writes.
<span style="font-size: 50%;">Diane Perpich [Associate Professor of Philosophy at Clemson University]. The Ethics of Emmanuel Levinas. Stanford University Press. 2008. Google Books.</span>
"Construing infinite responsibility...hungry or is persecuted."

An ethical relation must instead engage in the Politics of Becoming in order to cultivate respect for difference. Shapiro writes.
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Michael Shapiro [Professor Shapiro earned his B.A. and M.A. from the University of California, Los Angeles and earned his J.D. from the University of Chicago Law School, where he was associate editor of the //University of Chicago Law Review//. He practiced with Swerdlow, Glikbarg & Shimer; was a staff attorney with California Rural Legal Assistance; and was a staff attorney, assistant director of litigation, and acting director of litigation at the Western Center on Law & Poverty. Professor Shapiro lectured at USC Law in 1966 and joined the USC Law faculty again in 1970. He also has taught at Yale Law School and UCLA Law School. Professor Shapiro sat on the Institutional Review Board for Los Angeles County/USC Medical Center, reviewed proposals to Study the Human Genome Project for the U.S. Department of Energy, and is a member of the Pacific Council for Health Policy and Ethics.. Moral Spaces: The Ethics of Encounter: Unreading, Unmapping the Imperium. Copyright 1999 by the Regents of the University of Minnesota." Published by the University of Minnesota Press.</span>
"A postsecular ethic thus... embody them all."
"Consider, then, the...the politics of becoming."

I contend the existence of a distinct juvenile justice system is used to justify the renouncing of responsibility towards children, 

1) The juvenile justice system grounds the existence of a different system in the lack of agency that juveniles possess to determine their actions. However, the articulation of this difference is grounded in a negative conception of children that incites prejudice and leads society to view them as a mere cost. Nunn writes. 
<span style="font-size: 50%;">SYMPOSIUM: THE END OF ADOLESCENCE: THE CHILD AS OTHER: RACE AND DIFFERENTIAL TREATMENT IN THE JUVENILE JUSTICE SYSTEM.” Kenneth B. Nunn. 2002. 51 DePaul L. Rev. 679 Professor of Law, University of Florida Levin College of Law. A.B., 1980, Stanford University; J.D., 1984, University of California, Berkeley School of Law (Boalt Hall).</span>
"The positive conception... otherness intensifies exponentially."

2) Because they pose as social welfare institutions but serve an increasingly punitive function, juvenile courts frame childhood in a violent way that enables the public to ignore obligations. Feld writes: 
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Barry C. Feld [Professor of Law, University of Minnesota]. Abolish the juvenile court: youthfulness, criminal responsibility, and sentencing policy. Google Scholar.</span>
"Instead, states' juvenile ... compassion or humanitarian assistance."



==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Negative </span>== 


A)Text – Juveniles charged with violent felonies ought to be placed into Multisystemic Therapy programs, not treated as adults.
B) Net Benefits:

Prison sentences for juveniles increases recidivism rates and undermines the development of kids into responsible adults. Slobogin writes:
(2/18/2009 8:12:16 AM JUVENILE JUSTICE: THE FOURTH OPTION CHRISTOPHER SLOBOGIN & MARK R. FONDACARO*)
"﻿Two preliminary points ...causes of crime."

MST programs decrease recidivism rates and are cost effective. Slobogin writes:

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> (2/18/2009 8:12:16 AM JUVENILE JUSTICE: THE FOURTH OPTION CHRISTOPHER SLOBOGIN & MARK R. FONDACARO*)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "Another highly successful program... spent on MST.92"</span>


Net Benefits:
Its not a criminal proceeding so they don’t need due process rights for juvenile courts. Scott explains the courts:
Scott, Elizabeth S., and Laurence D. Steinberg. Rethinking Juvenile Justice. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2008. Print.
“For much of … for delinquent youths.”


Prison sentences for juveniles increases recidivism rates and undermines the development of kids into responsible adults. Slobogin writes:
SUBMISSION COPY--NOT FOR CIRCULATION OR DISTRIBUTION 2/18/2009 8:12:16 AM JUVENILE JUSTICE: THE FOURTH OPTION CHRISTOPHER SLOBOGIN & MARK R. FONDACARO*
“Two preliminary points … causes of crime.”


The changes in the way that the court system functions lead to a system of rehabilitation called Multisystemic therapy. Tyler explains Multisystemic Therapy:
The Toronto Star November 12, 1998, Thursday, METRO EDITION Pilot project a new tactic on teen crime Program focuses on family of young offenders BYLINE: By Tracey Tyler TORONTO STAR SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12 LENGTH: 656 wordget
“Case workers visit … of the problem."

**Mandatory Counsel PIC**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A) Text: In the United States adolescents ought to be treated as adults in the criminal justice system except that juveniles receive</span>
automatic appointment of counsel in juvenile delinquency proceedings without requiring any affirmative choice by child or parent

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 12.5pt; text-indent: -12.5pt;"> B) Competition: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 12.5pt; text-indent: -12.5pt;"> 1) Mandating juveniles receive counsel in the court process is recognition that juveniles must be treated differently. Berkheiser writes, </span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Mary Berkheiser [Associate Professor of Law; Director, Thomas & Mack Legal Clinic and Juvenile Justice Clinic, William S. Boyd School of Law, University of Nevada Las Vegas]. THE FICTION OF JUVENILE RIGHT TO COUNSEL: WAIVER IN THE JUVENILE COURTS. Florida Law Review. 2002.</span>

"These recommendations reflect...sound public policy."

<span style="color: #262626;">2) The counter plan makes counsel a requirement of proceedings involving juveniles instead of a right, which is a qualitative distinction from adult proceedings in the criminal courts.</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">C) Solvency and Net-Benefits: </span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">First, Juveniles are not physically capable to understand their right to counsel and will not use it efficiently. Berkheiser 2 writes, </span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Mary Berkheiser [Associate Professor of Law; Director, Thomas & Mack Legal Clinic and Juvenile Justice Clinic, William S. Boyd School of Law, University of Nevada Las Vegas]. THE FICTION OF JUVENILE RIGHT TO COUNSEL: WAIVER IN THE JUVENILE COURTS. Florida Law Review. 2002.</span>
"Juveniles' limited decision...older juveniles' comprehension." 362 

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">And, the right to waiver upsets conceptions of fairness and due process in court proceedings. Berkeiser 3 writes, </span>
<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Mary Berkheiser [Associate Professor of Law; Director, Thomas & Mack Legal Clinic and Juvenile Justice Clinic, William S. Boyd School of Law, University of Nevada Las Vegas]. THE FICTION OF JUVENILE RIGHT TO COUNSEL: WAIVER IN THE JUVENILE COURTS. Florida Law Review. 2002. Society too has an interest in assuring that the trial process is fair and in keeping with the commands of due process.</span>
"Juvenile waiver of right to... to a juvenile institution."

**Recidivism NC**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">I contend that treating juveniles in the adult system increases recidivism. All major studies have found a positive correlation between juvenile transfer and crime. Redding 08 writes. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School </span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
"In sum, to date,... in the criminal court."

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Therefore, result consistency in spite of a wide range of methodological and geographical variability strongly indicate strong reliability in the findings. The New York and New jersey study included in Redding’s analysis reveals an incredible increase in rearrest rates. Redding 2 writes.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School </span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span></span>

The study found a of adult court processing” 

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Moreover, the increase in recidivism remained even when juveniles were not committed to adult prisons, which indicates the adult **process** increases crime rates. Redding 3 provides multiple causalities. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School </span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.</span>
Findings from several studies... being tried as adults: 

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Recidivism has tremendous social harms. Wilson writes. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd. </span>
The effects of recidivism...cannot be understated.



















For previous debate topics, look to Meadows NS Wiki.