[[toc]]
**New partnership starting from Fayette County. If curious about previous stuff, look [[http://http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/2010-2011+%E2%80%94+Marist+%28GA%29+%E2%80%94+Sydney+Chung+%26+Libby+Mandarino.wikispaces.com/here|here]].**

[[mailto:sydney.chung93@gmail.com|sydney.chung93@gmail.com]] - cite requests, full-text of cards, ninja missions, free hugs
[[mailto:rachelthurston93@gmail.com|rachelthurston93@gmail.com]] - free gum, bro hats, hoodies with embedded headphones
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan Text</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan. </span>**

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inherency</span>== 

**2014 deadline sends the perception that we're leaving**
<span style="color: black;">James **Kirkup**, 11/20/**10** – Correspondent for the Daily Telegraph (November 20 2010, “Lisbon: Nato leaders endorse Afghanistan 2014 withdrawal date”, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/newstopics/politics/defence/8148560/Lisbon-Nato-leaders-endorse-Afghanistan-2014-withdrawal-date.html)</span>

Despite Western leaders’ … by early spring.?


==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hegemony</span>== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There’s no chance of success thru a COIN strategy- multiple reasons</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dorronsoro, 9/9/10** - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia, . Previously, was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes (Gilles, “Worsening Outlook in Afghanistan”, September 9, 2010, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41531&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+carnegie/afghanistan]]+ </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(DC+-+Region+-+Afghanistan)) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">How is the... Taliban's forward momentum.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterinsurgency is impossible in Afghanistan, multiple reasons </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nelson, 9** – former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, [[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Q1: General McChrystal... approach would entail. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security exists only in 5 of 116 areas in Afghanistan, the Taliban is spreading despite Obama’s surge, and COIN has only worked in on islands those of which are nothing like Afghanistan – the problem is COIN itself </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hallinan, 10** - columnist for foreign policy in focus (7/22/10, Conn, “The Great Myth: Counterinsurgency,”[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_great_myth_counterinsurgency]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When it was... General Stanley McChrystal. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterinsurgency fails without institutional backing – the Kabul Bank collapsed this week crushing any hope of solvency. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Prospect Magazine 9/6 /10** (Matthew Partridge, Prospect Magazine – named ‘the most intelligent current affairs and cultural debate magazine in Britain,’ “Kabul Bank crisis: the bailout dilemma” [[http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2010/09/kabul-bank-crisis-the-bailout-dilemma/]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kabul Bank, the... about tackling production.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Credibility Internal Link</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Failure will spillover to the entirety of US foreign policy and prevent Obama from exercising leadership</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Fernholz, 10** – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation (Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama's final decision... his other initiatives. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan restores US credibility on two levels– ending the counterinsurgency mission will salvage Obama’s Afghanistan policy to allow for a sustainable presence and resolve the confusion over the withdrawal deadline </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stewart, 10** - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, [[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But this moderate... focus on Kashmir</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Overstretch Internal Link</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterinsurgency doctrine is overstretching the US military and exhausting American leadership – withdrawing to a counterterrorism strategy is vital to preventing great power challengers</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kretkowski, 10** – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), [[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Over the winter... a reinvigorated Russia </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Afghanistan is a quagmire of attrition warfare that is destroying US morale and readiness. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuhner, 9** – the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">America is losing... arms of extremists. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This will obliterate American primacy </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pyne, 9** - Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, [[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Since we invaded...this past year.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">American primacy is vital to accessing every major impact </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Thayer, 6** - professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A grand strategy... prosperity it provides. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The plan solves – reducing to a counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence, and prevents vacillations between engagement and isolationism </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stewart, 9-** Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The best Afghan... will be more.</span>


==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Insurgency</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pakistan Scenario</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Taliban, who’s plotting to attack the US, is recruiting Pashtuns and funding the insurgency in Afghanistan</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Carmichael 10** (Lachlan, August 7, “Al-Qaeda in Pakistan still biggest threat, says US”, [[http://www.smh.com.au/world/alqaeda-in-pakistan-still-biggest-threat-says-us-20100806-11ojb.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The US said that despite … to perceived threats from neighbouring India. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COIN makes it impossible to crush the Taliban- the Afghan population is only cooperating with the Taliban, it’s continuing to recruit and invade Afghanistan faster than we can kill, and the government is doomed because the US doesn’t have any support. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dorronsoro 10** – visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia, . Previously, was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes (Gilles, May 09, “Is President Obama's Afghanistan Strategy Working?”, The Washington Post, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfmfa=view&id=40772&utm_source=feedburner&utm]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+carnegie/afghanistan+(DC+-+Region+-+Afghanistan) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The surge in Afghanistan is not … with the government or the Americans. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Akhtar, 10** – professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” [[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If there is... any moment, thus destabilizing the state. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pitt, 9**- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” [[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But a suicide bomber... should we all. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawing US troops solves – it lessens the risk of Pakistani instability </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Andrew J. **Bacevich** is professor of history and international relations at Boston University. “Winning In Afghanistan” – December 31st – **2008** – [[http://www.newsweek.com/2008/12/30/winning-in-afghanistan.html]] </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One of history's... strategy for Afghanistan.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Terrorism Scenario</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Risk of nuclear terrorism is high – probably an attack will come from al Qaeda by 2013</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hall, 10** (Mimi, USA Today, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, 4/12, [[http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">President Obama is... attack" by 2013. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Afghanistan is a vital safe haven for al Qaeda – terrorism is inevitable but nuclear risks can be reduced if the US drives them out </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Arkedis, 9** - director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007 (Jim, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, 10/23, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">I spent five... it can access. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear terrorism is the biggest impact – comparative evidence </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Freilich 10** – a former deputy national security advisor in Israel is a senior fellow at Harvard's Kennedy School and an adjunct professor at NYU. He recently completed a study on the threat of nuclear terrorism to Israel, published by the Begin-Sadat Center. (Chuck, “Armageddon and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism”, [[http://www.jewishpolicycenter.org/1745/threat-of-nuclear-terrorism]]). </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">President Obama recently... a messianic era. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Indicts of the counterterrorism option underestimate the size of what the plan leaves intact – it is sufficiently resourced to provide force protection, intelligence gathering, army training and will maintain the support of the local population </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Long, 10** - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This insoluble problem... other counterterrorism deployment. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A counterterrorism strategy allows more effective US leadership in the war on terror and maximizes US credibility </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chellany, 09** - professor of strategic studies at the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi (9/14/09, Brahma, Japan Times, “An Advantagous U.S. Exit,”[[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20090914bc.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When the administration's... military-mullah alliance. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A substantial drawdown to a purely counterterrorism presence will maximize US influence in Central Asia and contain instability and terrorism </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Simon, and Stevenson, 9** * adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009[[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409| http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An effort on... in fact, become.</span>


=Negative= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Caps</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Interpretation – Aff must cap the overall size of military presence. Specific reductions aren’t topical</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**“Presence” is the totality of U.S. forces** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Blechman et al, 97** – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The highly complex... infrastructure and sustainment capabilities. </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**“Reduce” means diminish in aggregate** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Words and Phrases 7** (36B W&P, p. 80) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mass. 1905. Rev... 188 Mass. 363.</span>


===Vagueness (Time Table)=== 
====1NC==== 
**<span class="Underline">Interpretation – the aff must specify the timeframe for withdrawal</span>**


**Resolved means to make a determined decision**
**<span class="Author-Date">Cambridge Dictionary, 2000</span>** Cambridge University <span class="TagChar">Press p.728</span>

Resolve – v. to make a determined decision; n. strong determination


===Vagueness (Military Presence)=== 
====1NC==== 
**Interpretation – Affirmative must specify the way they reduce US presence from South Korea**

**There are multiple ways to reduce U.S. military presence in Korea – they should have to specify**
**Kim 99 -**<span style="color: black;"> Associate Professor at the Institute of Foreign Affairs & National Security </span>(Sung-Han Kim, “Stability and Security on the Korean Peninsula: Developing a Research Agenda,” The University of California at San Diego, 5/26-27/99, http://www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc)

Force Restructuring When … of ground troops. 

==Counterplans== 
===Japan PIC=== 
====1NC==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should phase out its military presence in South Korea.**

**Troops key to credibility. Troops are the best guarantee that nuclear threats mean something.**
**Nye ‘9** (Joseph, Prof. IR – Harvard U., Korea Times, “Will US-Japan Alliance Survive”, 7-14, [[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2009/07/137_48423.html]])

Japan officially endorses … ballistic missile defense.


**U.S- Japanese relations key to Japanese economic and military stability**
**Calder 09** (Kent E., director of the Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies. “Pacific Alliance” Page:5-6 8/24/2009)

American global capabilities … <span style="color: black;">otherwise be true.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">Japanese economic collapse</span> risks global economic collapse—need strong leadership for reform**
**The Economist, 6/5** (6/5/10, “Leaderless Japan; Yukio Hatoyama Resigns”, http://www.lexisnexis.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/us/lnacademic/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb=21_T9621498533&format=GNBFI&sort=BOOLEAN&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T9621498537&cisb=22_T9621498536&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=7955&docNo=3)

It used to … bomb from exploding__.__



**Continued global economic decline will result in global war.**
**Mead, 9** - senior fellow for [[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._foreign_policy|U.S. foreign policy ]]at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, 2/4/09, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” [[@http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]] AD 6/30/09) 

Frequently, the crisis … have to fight.


===AFAP CP=== 
====1NC==== 
**Text: The United States federal government should deploy Artillery Fired Atomic Projectiles to the Eighth United States Army in Korea and develop a doctrine for their use**

**The counterplan bolsters deterrence and makes nuclear threats credible**
**UPI** 10-29-**2009** (“Calls for nuclear weapons in South Korea,” [[http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Calls_for_nuclear_weapons_in_South_Korea_999.html]])

With the U.S. defense … threat, he said. 


**Solves the case and allows the US to deter, dissuade, and defeat North Korea**
**Tamsett 2003** (Jeremy, Graduate Research Assistant at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, “The Evolving U.S. Strategic Landscape: A Fresh Look at Low-Yield Nuclear Weapons,” December 1, [[http://www.gyre.org/news/article/3599/#fulltext]])

Diplomacy is the … to that dilemma.


**War with North Korea is inevitable this year—the US will win now**
**Manasan 10** – graduate student in the Master of Journalism program at Ryerson University (Althea, “Pressure to bolster North Korean leader makes war inevitable, analyst says,” National Post, May 28, http://www.nationalpost.com/news/Pressure+bolster+Korean+leader+makes+inevitable+analyst/3085070/story.html, Crowe)

While some experts … Korea would lose it.”


**Effective US ground forces in Korea are critical to the hold the line while reinforcements arrive—early North Korean successes would prevent the US from landing reinforcements**
**Global Security.Org 2010** (“OPLAN 5027 Major Theater War – West,” April 27, [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/oplan-5027.htm]])

Pyongyang can credibly … -the-shore operations.


**Failure to reinforce South Korea and win the war crushes American hegemony**
**Green 5-27** (Stephen, writer and broadcaster, “North vs. South Korea: How Bad Could a War Get?” 5-27-2010, [[http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/north-vs-south-korea-how-bad-could-a-war-get/?singlepage=true]])

It’s almost certain … un-American. “Tread on Me.”


**Nuke war**
**Khalilzad 1995** (Zalmay, RAND analyst and now U.S. ambassador to Iraq, The Washington Quarterly)

Under the third … of power system.


==Disads== 
===ROK Investment DA=== 
====1NC==== 
<span class="Underline">**Plan guts investment in South Korea which collapses its economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Magnum 04**- Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea</span>
<span class="Underline">(Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf]//au)//</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">Many <span style="text-decoration: none;">Koreans ignore</span> … of its forces. </span>




**South Korean economy is key to Asian democracy**
**Newsweek, 10** (1/29/10, “Selling South Korea,” [[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html]]) Calum

In short, the … , that of China."


**Extinction**
**Diamond, 95** – Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm)

This hardly exhausts … sovereignty, and openness.


<span class="Underline">**Independently, withdrawal will stop U.S. foothold in the Asian Pacific Market which will collapse the U.S. economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kinne 04**- Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691]</span>au)

<span class="Underline">Strategic <span style="text-decoration: none;">withdrawal of U.S. … the global marketplace. </span></span>


**Global nuclear war**
**Mead 09** (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]

So far, such … have to fight. 


=Strategies= 
==Fayette County== 
===Rd 1 v. Grady BD (East Asia)=== 
T - Vagueness
T - Caps
Japan PIC
Japan econ turns
Allied Prolif case turn

2NR was Allied Prolif turn

===Rd 4 v. Alpharetta LC (COIN)=== 
T - Caps
Case turns

2NR was Case turns

===Rd 5 v. Westminster PM (South Korea)=== 
T - Vagueness
AFAP CP
ROK Investment DA
Allied Prolif case turn

2NR was Allied Prolif case turn

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]