[[toc]]
Email [[mailto:abhikkp@gmail.com|abhikkp@gmail.com]] for Cite Requests

=Affirmative= 

==[[#Affirmative-Wake Forest - Japan 1AC - Inherency]]== 
==[[#Affirmative-Wake Forest - Japan 1AC - Inherency]]Wake Forest - Japan 1AC - Inherency== 

**Contention One is The Status Quo—**

**American insistence on creating a new replacement facility for Futenma Air Station after the base’s closure in Japan is preventing Japan from developing ties with other East Asian countries and creating uncertainty over the stability of the U.S.-Japan Alliance.**
**Talmadge, ’10**
[Eric Talmadge, Writer for The Associated Press, “US-Japan security alliance strained by base decision, other pressures on its 50th anniversary,” May 22nd 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/world/us-japan-security-alliance-strained-by-base-decision-other-pressures-on-its-50th-anniversary-96862119.html]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Uncertainty over a Marine base and plans to move thousands of U.S. troops to Guam are straining a post-World War II security alliance Japan and the United States set 50 years ag</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">o, but Tokyo's new leader said Tuesday he stands behind the pact. </span><span class="CardChar0">Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he sees the arrangement as a crucial means of maintaining the balance of power in Asia, where the economic and military rise of China is looming large, and vowed to stand behind it despite recent disputes with Washington. "Keeping our alliance with the United States contributes to peace in the region," Kan said</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in a televised question-and-answer session with other party leaders</span><span class="CardChar0">. "Stability helps the U.S.-Japan relationship, and that between China and Japan and, in turn, China and the United States."</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The U.S.-Japan alliance, formalized over violent protests in 1960, provides for the defense of Japan while assuring the U.S. has regional bases that serve as a significant deterrent to hostilities over the Korean Peninsula or Taiwan. Under the pact, promulgated 50 years ago Wednesday, nearly 50,000 American troops are deployed throughout Japan. </span><span class="CardChar0">The U.S. forces include a key naval base south of Tokyo where the only permanently forward-deployed aircraft carrier has its home port; Kadena Air Base, which is one of the largest in Asia; and more than 10,000 U.S. Marines on the southern island of Okinawa.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The large U.S. presence over the past five decades has allowed Japan to keep its own defense spending low, to about 1 percent of its GDP, and focus its spending elsewhere — a factor that helped it rebuild after World War II to become the world's second-largest economy. "Even though there are some small problems here and there, in the bigger sense the relationship remains strong," said Jun Iio, a professor at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. "Very few people think that it is actually necessary to make major changes in the alliance." </span><span class="CardChar0">But while the alliance is one of the strongest Washington has anywhere in the world, it has come under intense pressure lately over a plan to make sweeping reforms that would pull back roughly 8,600 Marines from Okinawa to the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam. The move was conceived in response to opposition on Okinawa to the large U.S. military presence there</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> — more than half of the U.S. troops in Japan are on Okinawa, which was one of the bloodiest battlefields of World War II. Though welcomed by many at first, </span><span class="CardChar0">the relocation plan has led to renewed Okinawan protests over the U.S. insistence it cannot be carried out unless a new base is built on Okinawa to replace one that has been set for closing for more than a decade. A widening rift between Washington and Tokyo over the future of the Futenma Marine Corps Air Station was a major factor in the resignation of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama earlier this month. It could well plague Kan as well.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Kan has vowed to build a replacement facility on Okinawa, as the U.S. demanded, but details are undecided. </span><span class="CardChar0">Implementing the agreement would need the support of the local governor, who has expressed opposition to it. Kan was scheduled to visit Okinawa on Wednesday for ceremonies marking the end of the 1945 battle there that hastened Japan's surrender.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Recent tension on the Korean peninsula and China's growing military assertiveness have undoubtedly driven home the importance of the U.S. security pact with Japanese leaders. Before he stepped down, Hatoyama suggested that the March sinking of a South Korean warship, allegedly by a North Korean torpedo, contributed to his decision keep Futenma on Okinawa — reversing a campaign pledge to move it off the island. Tokyo was alarmed in April when a Chinese helicopter came within 300 feet (90 meters) of a Japanese military monitoring vessel in the vicinity of a Chinese naval exercise. That same month, Chinese ships were also spotted in international waters off Okinawa. Still, the Okinawa problem underscores an increasingly skeptical stance among some Japanese leaders toward the role of the security alliance. </span><span class="CardChar0">Though the pact was strongly supported by the staunchly pro-U.S. conservative party that ruled Japan for most of the past 60 years, the newly empowered Democratic Party of Japan, which swept to office last year, have taken a more nuanced approach, saying that while close security ties with Washington remain crucial Japan needs to improve its relations with its Asian neighbors, particularly China. On Monday, Kan said he will reassure Obama when they meet at a summit this weekend that Japan-U.S. ties continue to be "the cornerstone" of Japan's diplomacy. But he added that "I want to view this relationship from a broader point of view," and stressed Japan must not forget the importance of developing its Asian relationships. </span>

**US military presence in Okinawa is spurring grassroots opposition within Japan against—threatens to devastate the US Japan alliance and US power projection capabilities**
**Auslin, Japanese Studies Director @ AEI, ’10**
[Michael Auslin, Director of Japanese Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, Former Senior Research Fellow @ The MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies @ Yale, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” June 16th 2010, [[http://epaper.wsj-asia.com/WSJA/WSJA/2010/06/17/ArticleHtmls/17_06_2010_013_017.shtml]]]
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A great sigh of relief erupted</span></span> in Washington and Tokyo Friday <span class="CardChar0">when</span> Prime Minister Naoto <span class="CardChar0">Kan reaffirmed his commitment to the U</span>nited <span class="CardChar0">S</span>tates-<span class="CardChar0">Japan security alliance. In particular, defense officials focused on Mr. Kan's promise to stick with a 2006 agreement with the U.S. to move a Marine air wing from one part of Okinawa Island to another. But even so, there remain fissures in the U.S.-Japan relationship that could erupt into further crises for the alliance. Senior Japanese military officials</span> I've recently interviewed <span class="CardChar0">believe</span> former Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama set back Tokyo's rela tions with its own citizens in Okinawa by at least a decade by waffling on the 2006 deal, and that <span class="CardChar0">the opposition to U.S. bases in Japan, emboldened by the former prime minister's position, could endanger much broader bilateral military relations between the two countries.</span> This bigger story has received almost no attention in domestic or foreign press, but needs to be understood by those dismissive of the recent spat's importance. <span class="CardChar0">The 2006 agreement to move the Marine air wing at Futenma to Camp Schwab in the northern part of the island, and 8,000 Marines to Guam from Okinawa, was just one part of a broader realignment of U.S. forces in Japan. In the view of senior Japanese military leadership, however, the actual centerpiece of the 2006 agreement is the expansion of Marine Corps Air Station</span> (MCAS) Iwakuni, located <span class="CardChar0">in Yamaguchi Prefecture, in the west of Japan's main island, Honshu.</span> MCAS Iwakuni already hosts several Marine air squadrons, including the only American F/A-18 Hornet squadron permanently based abroad. Under the 2006 agreement, the USS George Washington's fighters, which comprise the navy's only permanently forward-deployed air wing, will relocate to Iwakuni by 2014 from the more congested Naval Air Facility Atsugi, located close to Tokyo. <span class="CardChar0">In addition, a squadron of Marine Corps KC-130 tankers will also vacate Futenma for Iwakuni. In their stead, a squadron of Japanese Maritime SelfDefense Forces surveillance planes, P-3s, will leave Iwakuni for Atsugi. All this might sound confusing, but the planned realignment will in essence reduce the chances of catastrophic accidents happening in heavily populated areas at both Futenma and Atsugi, and will build up the less-populated Iwakuni base. Here's the rub: The U.S. Department of Defense has made it clear that, unless the entire 2006 realignment plan goes forward, no individual pieces will be set in motion. And it all depends on moving the Marine helicopters out of Futenma, which has long been a source of political contention between Tokyo and Washington. The Japanese government</span>, moreover, <span class="CardChar0">is committed to moving its surveillance planes to Atsugi, but that move probably won’t happen if the American carrier air wing stays put. Japanese military officials worry that this year’s protests in Okinawa could have spillover effects, inspiring protesters around Atsugi to demand a reduced American presence, and possibly even agitating against the government plan to move Japanese planes there.</span> Moreover, Iwakuni’s mayor might reject the new burden of potentially hosting the George Washington’s air wing. <span class="CardChar0">That, in turn, would embolden antinuclear protesters in Yokosuka, the U.S. Navy’s main base, to step up their ongoing pressure to move the nuclear-powered George Washington, the Navy’s only permanently forward deployed aircraft carrier, out of Japanese waters. This worst-case scenario would be a series of simultaneous, grassroots movements against the U.S. military presence in Japan that could potentially put fatal stress on the bilateral security alliance and effectively isolate Japan militarily in the western Pacific.</span> Given Mr. Hatoyama’s fate when he botched this issue, <span class="CardChar0">politicians now are more likely to respond to public demands or they will be replaced by those who do. The resulting political clash would either reaffirm tight ties with Washington or lead to endemic paralysis in Japan’s national security establishment. Given that the U.S. has permanently forward deployed ships and planes only in Japan, any scenario like the one sketched out above could significantly weaken U.S. capability to operate in the western Pacific, and thus call into question U.S. credibility as the underwriter of regional stability at a time when a crisis is brewing on the Korean peninsula and China continues to flex its naval and air muscle. Anyone concerned about that scenario</span>, even if unlikely, <span class="CardChar0">realizes that the next half-decade of U.S.-Japan relations will have to go back to basics: rebuilding trust in the relationship, agreeing on a common set of objectives in Japan’s waters and throughout Northeast Asia, and strengthening a commitment to upholding the alliance’s military capabilities. The good news is that Japan’s bureaucrats and military leaders remain more committed than ever to revitalizing the alliance. Whether politicians on both sides of the Pacific are willing to follow them, however, is another matter. No one believes that Washington and Tokyo are about to end their half-century-old alliance over an airstrip on an island in the middle of the ocean. But no one imagined, either, that a carefully crafted, decade-long negotiating process would be so carelessly upended by short-term political calculations.</span> Prime Minister Kan can’t afford to ignore the fissures opened by his predecessor and should work to heal them.

**Japanese political changes mean nothing—the new party leaders are mired in the status quo**
**Harris, ’10**
[Tobias Harris, Doctoral student in political science @ The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Japan-U.S. Relations Could Get Bumpy,” July 16th 2010, [[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/07/16/a-fragile-alliance.html]]]
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">For a</span></span> brief <span class="CardChar0">moment</span>, Naoto <span class="CardChar0">Kan looked like the anchor who could end Japan’s drift.</span> Where his predecessor, Yukio Hatoyama, was a patrician dogged by corruption scandals and perceived as incapable of leading his own government, Kan came into the premiership stressing his own middle-class background. He pledged to recommit the governing Democratic Party of Japan to its ambitious agenda: reversing the country’s long decline by reforming its bureaucracy and social safety net while jump-starting the economy. Moreover, <span class="CardChar0">his commitment to replace an aging U.S. air base on Okinawa signaled a possible end to a dispute that had soured relations with Washington and led to Hatoyama’s resignation. A mere month later, Japan is once again mired in political confusion. In July the DPJ fell well short of a majority in the upper-house elections.</span> It will now have to find either permanent coalition partners or, failing that, parties willing to cooperate on an issue-by-issue basis. Kan has survived his party’s defeat but faces a party leadership election in September that looks certain to be contentious. <span class="CardChar0">The result is that the DPJ government will have little choice but to moderate its goals. Accordingly, for U.S. policymakers interested in strengthening the relationship often described as “the cornerstone of peace and security” in East Asia, Japan’s domestic political environment will continue to serve as an obstacle.</span> For the foreseeable future, no government will be in a position to advance major new initiatives, especially those pertaining to Japan’s security policy. And the sad reality is that even if the DPJ had won a convincing victory,<span class="CardChar0"> Washington’s interest in a more active security partnership—in which Japan would spend more on its armed forces, participate more in overseas operations, and perhaps even revise or reinterpret its Constitution to permit self-defense within the alliance—would continue to face serious obstacles.</span> As the government’s fiscal situation worsens, it becomes less and less likely that Tokyo will take up an ambitious security policy agenda. Fixing the government’s finances is a key step to addressing the other pocketbook issues with which voters are concerned. <span class="CardChar0">It is unlikely that a government implementing controversial budget cuts and tax increases would also take up the contentious question of how it should contribute to the defense of Japan and security in East and Central Asia. Its fear would be that the public would punish leaders perceived as focused on problems far from Japanese shores as it implements policies that hurt Japanese households. Moreover, for a cash-strapped government, the status quo, in which Japan limits its defense spending while subsidizing U.S. bases in Japan, continues to suit Japan’s interests. The logic of the Yoshida doctrine—which was formulated during the early postwar period, and which called for low defense spending combined with an alliance founded on U.S. bases in Japan—remains relevant today: Japanese leaders once saw the doctrine as the key to postwar economic development, and now the same policies provide resources for shoring up Japan’s social safety net and halting economic decline.</span> The irony, then, is that <span class="CardChar0">despite the DPJ’s desire for a more equal relationship with the United States, the political and economic logic of austerity suggests that Japan will likely grow even more dependent on the U.S. for its security, with the difference being that the relationship will be more fragile.</span> For Japan, every U.S. initiative toward China will be scrutinized for signs that the U.S. is abandoning Japan in the region. Similarly, for Washington, every initiative to deepen cooperation within East Asia that excludes the U.S. will be questioned and may prompt grumbling about Japanese free-riding. In other words, these are the makings of a tumultuous decade for the alliance. <span class="CardChar0">What can Washington do to minimize the friction? To a certain extent, the Obama administration has already taken several steps in the right direction. Unlike its predecessor, the current administration is less wedded to Japanese military contributions</span> and gladly accepted a sizable Japanese financial contribution to the reconstruction of Afghanistan. <span class="CardChar0">When not feuding over Okinawa, the administration has made clear that it wants to work with Tokyo in areas like climate change. But the U.S. needs to be patient—especially on Okinawa. It needs to accept that in the months and years to come, anything beyond a limited military alliance focused on the defense of Japan is a nonstarter for Japan’s beleaguered politicians. </span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan—The United States Federal Government should close the Marines Corp Air Station Futenma in the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan and phase out all Marines stationed on Okinawa except for the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit to the point of elimination. We’ll Clarify. </span>**

==[[#Affirmative-Wake Forest - Japan 1AC - Alliance Advantage]]Wake Forest - Japan 1AC - Alliance Advantage== 

**Contention Two is The Alliance**

**Scenario One is East Asia**

**A strong alliance key to create lasting stability in East Asia—bolsters our deterrent capabilities against all major threats and allows for regional interdependence—solves for Chinese aggression over Taiwan, North Korean Nuclearizaiton, and is key to keeping open sea lines of communications**
Rapp, Former CFR Fellow @ Tokyo’s IIPS, ’04
[<span style="color: black;">William E. Rapp, Former Council on Foreign Relations—Hitachi International Affairs Fellow @ The Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Ph.D. in International Relations from Stanford University, </span>“<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=367|Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance]]</span>,” January 1st 2004, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This monograph began by making the assertion that </span><span class="CardChar0">the alliance can and must become more than simply a narrow defense pact if both the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan want to be successful in shaping the security future of East Asia in ways that support peace, prosperity, and the growth of democratic and human values. In the next several decades, East Asia in particular will need the stability and positive character of Japan and the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">working in close concert.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> There is a distinct need for positive complementarities in the relationship. </span><span class="CardChar0">This power sharing could result in an alliance well suited to handle</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in a positive manner, </span><span class="CardChar0">the most important challenge of the ﬁrst half of the 21st century―the character of the rise of China to superpower status. Tight coordination of policy and increased military capability will vastly increase the deterrence credibility of the alliance.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> As Diet Representative Eisei Ito noted, </span><span class="CardChar0">“The best way to deal with China is for Japan and the U.S. to be partners in the truest sense and consult closely and frankly over policy toward that country.”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 207 </span><span class="CardChar0">Working together with one voice may be the best means of engaging China in the coming decades, preventing the opening of an exploitable rift, precluding the forceful reuniﬁcation of Taiwan and the mainland, and creating a path that both facilitates Chinese national interests and the peace and prosperity of the entire region.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 208 </span><span class="CardChar0">North Korea and its quest for nuclear weapons represent a salient opportunity for the alliance to act in concert for the stability of Northeast Asia. No resolution of the current crisis on the Peninsula will be possible without both Japan and the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">working together within an agreed strategic framework. In addition, the powerful American and Japanese navies can help to guarantee the maintenance of the vital sea lines of communication</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (SLOC) </span><span class="CardChar0">running through Southeast and East Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 209 About 52 percent of all commercial sea cargo (59 percent of supertankers) transit this region amid thorny and unresolved issues of territorial boundaries, intrastate governance problems, and piracy. 210 For Japan, the routes are even more important―over 85 percent of the oil Japan imports sails through these sea lanes. 211 </span><span class="CardChar0">Piracy in South and Southeast Asian shipping lanes remains a major hazard, especially in Indonesian waters and the Straits of Malacca.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 212 </span><span class="CardChar0">At present, Japan is committed to protect only SLOCs out to 1,000 miles from Osaka and Tokyo.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 213 </span><span class="CardChar0">This arc of committed sea lane protection does not even extend all the way through the vital Bashi Channel to the southern end of Taiwan and the northern entrance to the South China Sea.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Increasing this Japanese maritime reach through port calls, freedom of navigation cruises into the Indian Ocean, and combined exercises should be encouraged. 214 </span><span class="CardChar0">Aiding in the provision of unfettered SLOCs, which beneﬁt most of Southeast and East Asia, also may reassure Asia about the future role of the Japanese military, thus increasing Japan’s ability to comprehensively engage ASEAN. Working in concert, the two alliance partners could expand their tight cooperation into associated security realms within the region. WMD and ballistic missile nonproliferation, cyber-terrorism, and counternarcotics are just three examples of potentially fruitful venues for increased cooperation. Ideally, the alliance would continue to deepen into a multidimensional force for peace and prosperity in East Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The Proliferation Security Initiative hopefully is a harbinger of further expansion beyond the original scope of the alliance. </span><span class="CardChar0">Finally, the alliance can provide the continuity of peace and trust necessary for the growth of liberalism throughout the region. Success for the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan will increasingly be measured in terms of an increased community of vibrant, paciﬁc, free-market democracies in Asia. Making the two publics aware of the idealistic beneﬁts of the alliance will make more headway toward acceptance of a deepening partnership than simply focusing on the alliance’s role in power politics in the region.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Creating the conditions for that liberal development and tamping down the anticipated frictions that will arise along the way can best be accomplished in tandem. </span><span class="CardChar0">In the long run, this liberalism backed by the concerted power of the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan will bring lasting stability to the region. </span>


**Numerous factors make the breakout of conflict more likely than anywhere else—a strong alliance is key to check**
**Ikenberry & Mastanduno, Professors @ Princeton & Dartmouth, ’03**
[J. John Ikenberry, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton University, Michael Mastanduno, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences & Nelson A. Rockefeller Professor of Government @ Dartmouth College, “International Relations Theory and The Asia Pacific,” 2003, Pg. 25-27] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Many scholars and analysts argue that in the twenty-first century international instability is more likely in East Asia than in Western Europe. Whether one looks at variables favored by realists or liberals, East Asia appears more dangerous. The region is characterized by major shifts in the balance of power, skewed distributions of economic and political power</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> within and </span><span class="CardChar0">between countries, political and cultural heterogeneity, growing but still relatively low levels of intraregional economic interdependence, anemic security institutionalization, and widespread territorial disputes that combine natural resource issues with postcolonial nationalism.' If security dilemma theory is applied to East Asia, the chance for spirals of tension in the area seems great</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, particularly in the absence of a U.S. military presence in the region. </span><span class="CardChar0">The theory states that, in an uncertain and anarchic international system, mistrust between two or more potential adversaries can lead each side to take precautionary and defensively motivated measures that are perceived as offensive threats. This can lead to countermeasures in kind, thus ratcheting up regional tensions, reducing security, and creating self-fulfilling prophecies about the danger of one's security environment.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> If we look at the variables that might fuel security dilemma dynamics, East Asia appears quite dangerous</span><span class="CardChar0">. From a standard realist perspective, not only could dramatic and unpredictable changes in the distribution of capabilities in East Asia increase un-certainty and mistrust, but the importance of sea-lanes and secure energy supplies to almost all regional actors could also encourage a destabilizing competition to develop power-projection capabilities on the seas and in the skies.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Because they are perceived as offensive threats, power-projection forces are more likely to spark spirals of tension than weapons that can defend only a nation's homeland.' </span><span class="CardChar0">Perhaps even more important in East Asia than these more commonly considered variables are psychological factors (such as the historically based mistrust and animosity among regional actors)</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and political geography issues relating to the Taiwan question, </span><span class="CardChar0">which make even defensive weapons</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the region </span><span class="CardChar0">appear threatening</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for Chinese security. </span><span class="CardChar0">One way to ameliorate security dilemmas and prevent spirals of tension is to have an outside arbiter play a policing role, lessening the perceived need for regional actors to begin destabilizing security competitions. For this reason, most scholars</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, regardless of theoretical persuasion, seem to </span><span class="CardChar0">agree with U.S. officials and local leaders that a major factor in containing potential tensions in East Asia is the continuing presence of the U.S. military, particularly in Japan. The historically based mistrust among the actors in Northeast Asia is so intense that not only is the maintenance of a U.S. presence in Japan critical, but the form the U.S.-Japan alliance takes also has potentially important implications for regional stability.</span>

**Most likely scenario for nuclear escalation**
**Nye et al., Professor @ Harvard, 2K**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph S. Nye, Professor Emeritus @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] </span>
<span class="CardChar0">Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at least a generation, but the prospects for conflict in Asia are far from remote. The region features some of the world’s largest and most modern armies, nuclear-armed major powers, and several nuclear-capable states. Hostilities that could directly involve the United States in a major conflict could occur at a moment’s notice on the Korean peninsula and in the Taiwan Strait. The Indian subcontinent is a major flashpoint. In each area, war has the potential of nuclear escalation. In addition, lingering turmoil in Indonesia, the world’s fourth-largest nation, threatens stability in Southeast Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The United States is tied to the region by a series of bilateral security alliances that remain the region’s de facto security architecture. </span><span class="CardChar0">In this promising but also potentially dangerous setting, the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship is more important than ever. With the world’s second-largest economy and a well equipped and competent military, and as our democratic ally, Japan remains the keystone of the U.S. involvement in Asia. The U.S.-Japan alliance is central to America’s global security strategy. </span>


**North Korean nuclearization causes extinction**
**Hayes & Green, Professors @ RMIT U & Victoria U, ’09**
[Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations @ RMIT University, Director of the Nautilus Institute, Michael Hamel-Green, Dean & Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development @ Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Peter-Hayes/3267]]</span>]
<span class="CardChar0">The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the North Korea developments</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and related political and economic issues, </span><span class="CardChar0">are serious, not only for the Northeast Asian region but for the whole international community. At worst, there is the possibility of nuclear attack</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">1, whether by intention, miscalculation, or merely accident, </span><span class="CardChar0">leading to the resumption of Korean War hostilities. On the Korean Peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of Japan is likely to come within North Korean missile range. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, Seoul (close to the North Korean border) 11 million, and Tokyo over 20 million. </span><span class="CardChar0">Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions. But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 Hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the United States currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 Hiroshimas).</span><span class="CardChar0">The studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees Celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 In Westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. </span><span class="CardChar0">A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…The period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger…To make matters even worse, such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the Earth’s protective ozone.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. </span><span class="CardChar0">Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. </span><span class="CardChar0">There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">5, </span><span class="CardChar0">with subsequent nuclear breakout and geopolitical turbulence, including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states. The Korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">North Korea is currently believed to have sufficient plutonium stocks to produce up to 12 nuclear weapons.6 If and when it is successful in implementing a uranium enrichment program - having announced publicly that it is experimenting with enrichment technology on September 4, 20097 in a communication with the UN Security Council - it would likely acquire the capacity to produce over 100 such weapons. </span><span class="CardChar0">Although some may dismiss Korean Peninsula proliferation risks on the assumption that the North Korean regime will implode as a result of its own economic problems, food problems, and treatment of its own populace, there is little to suggest that this is imminent. If this were to happen, there would be the risk of nuclear weapons falling into hands of non-state actors in the disorder and chaos that would ensue. Even without the outbreak of nuclear hostilities on the Korean Peninsula in either the near or longer term, North Korea has every financial incentive under current economic sanctions and the needs of its military command economy to export its nuclear and missile technologies to other states</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Indeed, it has already been doing this for some time. The Proliferation Security Initiative may conceivably prove effective in intercepting ship-borne nuclear exports, but it is by no means clear how air-transported materials could similarly be intercepted</span><span class="CardChar0">. Given the high stakes involved, North Korean proliferation, if unaddressed and unreversed, has the potential to destabilize the whole East Asian region and beyond. </span>

**Strong partnership prevents aggressive Chinese expansionism**
**Konishi & Avery, Congressional Research Service Analysts, ’09**
[Weston S. Konishi, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Adjunct fellow at the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, Member of the United States Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” Congressional Research Service, July 23rd 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/128832.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Although the U.S.-Japan security partnership grew out of a need to contain the Soviet Union and has endured in large part because of North Korea’s threat, many analysts see countering China as the primary driver of the campaign to enhance cooperation today. The U.S. approach to rising China is often characterized by observers as having two prongs</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that roughly correspond to the </span><span class="CardChar0">“engagement” and “containment”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> camps. The </span><span class="CardChar0">“engagement” approach includes the “responsible stakeholder” concept outlined most prominently by former Deputy Secretary of State Robert Zoellick, which aims to convince Beijing to contribute peacefully to the international system that has allowed its economic and political rise. The “containment” aspect of U.S. policy seeks to counter a China that could develop in ways inimical to U.S. interests. The U.S.-Japan alliance plays a role in both approaches. In the former, Japan could serve as a model of responsible multilateral engagement as well as a key economic partner for China in the region. In the latter, enhanced joint defense capabilities from neighboring Japan could deter any aggressive behavior by China’s military. U.S. forward deployment in Japan plays a particularly important role in contingency strategies for a conflict with China over Taiwan. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">29 </span>

**Aggression causes War over Taiwan**
**Copley News Service, ’05**
[Copley News Service, “Daily Editorials: Bombs and Butter,” July 24th 2005]
<span class="CardChar0">As China gains</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> economic </span><span class="CardChar0">clout, its government's brand of touchy, saber-rattling nationalism becomes more worrisome. That touchiness is rooted in the memory of humiliation inflicted by foreigners, from the Western colonial concessions of the 19th century, and</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> it is rooted in the more recent memory of </span><span class="CardChar0">Japanese atrocities during</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the </span><span class="CardChar0">World War II</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> occupation. That wounded pride explains the orchestrated national spleen-venting over Japanese textbooks, the 2001 U.S. spy plane collision and the mistaken U.S. bombing of China's embassy during the Kosovo campaign. </span><span class="CardChar0">It has much to do with China's oft-repeated threats to attack Taiwan, which seem extreme to everyone except the Chinese. As China gains power, that nationalism becomes more worrisome. China's authoritarian government lacks the natural restraint of voters or of dissenters free to challenge government assumptions that can lead to war.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The Pentagon recently reported that </span><span class="CardChar0">China is rapidly building its military with a goal of extending its influence across Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In the future, </span><span class="CardChar0">its leaders "may be tempted to resort to force or coercion more quickly to press diplomatic advantage, advance security interests or resolve disputes</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">," the report concluded. </span><span class="CardChar0">If more muscle combined with nationalist passions tempt Chinese leaders to attack Taiwan, the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and the world would be faced with a crisis more serious than</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> any since at least </span><span class="CardChar0">the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1962 </span><span class="CardChar0">Cuban missile crisis</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> with the Soviet Union. The United States would feel compelled to come to Taiwan's aid, </span><span class="CardChar0">resulting in a war between heavily armed countries that possess nuclear arsenals.</span>

**Nuclear Armageddon**
**Straits Times, 2K**
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000]
<span class="CardChar0">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. <span class="CardChar0">Conflict on such a scale </span></span><span class="CardChar0">would embroil other countries far and near and -- horror of horrors -- raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. </span><span class="CardChar0">If China were to retaliate, East Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> by the likes of Iraq. </span><span class="CardChar0">In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, </span><span class="CardChar0">could enter a new and dangerous phase.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -->If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, <span class="CardChar0">there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. <span class="CardChar0">Major-General Pan Zhangqiang</span>, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He <span class="CardChar0">said </span></span><span class="CardChar0">military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization. There would be no victors in such a war.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> While the prospect of </span><span class="CardChar0">a nuclear Armageddon over Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> might seem inconceivable, it </span><span class="CardChar0">cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. </span></span>

**Scenario 2 is Japanese Prolif**

**Japan will not nuclearize in the squo but stress on the alliance will force rearmament collapsing the NPT**
**Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, Congressional Research Service Analyst & Analyst in Nonproliferation, ’09**
[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Today, </span><span class="CardChar0">Japanese officials and experts remain </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">remarkably </span><span class="CardChar0">uniform in their consensus </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">that </span><span class="CardChar0">Japan is unlikely to move toward nuclear status in the short-to-medium term. However, as the security environment has shifted significantly, the topic is no longer toxic and has been broached by several leading politicians. North Korea’s test of a nuclear device </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in 2006 </span><span class="CardChar0">and China’s military modernization have altered the strategic dynamics in the region</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and </span><span class="CardChar0">any </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">signs of </span><span class="CardChar0">stress in the U.S.-Japan alliance raises questions among some about the robustness of the U.S. security guarantee. An ascendant hawkish, conservative movement—some of whom openly advocate for Japan to develop an independent nuclear arsenal—has gained more traction in Japanese politics, moving from the margins to a more influential position.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In addition, </span><span class="CardChar0">previous security-related taboos have been overcome in the past few years: the dispatch of Japanese military equipment and personnel to Iraq and Afghanistan, the elevation of the Japanese Defense Agency to a fullscale ministry, and Japanese co-development of a missile defense system with the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates. All of </span><span class="CardChar0">these factors </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">together </span><span class="CardChar0">increase the still unlikely possibility that Japan will reconsider its position on nuclear weapons. Any reconsideration of Japan’s policy of nuclear weapons abstention would have significant implications for U.S. policy in East Asia. Globally, Japan’s withdrawal from the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty </span><span class="CardChar0">(NPT) could damage the most durable international non-proliferation regime. Regionally, Japan “going nuclear” could set off a nuclear arms race with China, South Korea, and Taiwan and, in turn, India, and Pakistan may feel compelled to further strengthen their own nuclear weapons capability. </span>

**Only restructuring the alliance can prevent Japanese political instability**
**Kapila, Strategic Affairs Analyst, ’10**
[Subhash Kapila, International Relations and Strategic Affairs analyst, South Asia Analysis Group Consultant, “Japan’s Political Instability & Its Strategic Impact, June 7th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.southasiaanalysis.org/papers39/paper3848.html|http://www.southasiaanalysis.org//papers39/paper3848.html]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Japan has a vital role to play in the stability and security of North East Asia. North East Asia encompasses within its confines some of the most explosive flashpoints around the globe. China’s latent hostility towards U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">forward military presence</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in North East Asia </span><span class="CardChar0">is exercised by proxy through its militarily wayward protégé North Korea. Both target Japan's security and political stability to weaken its resolve to be an effective strategic partner of the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates. </span><span class="CardChar0">A strategically over-stretched United States especially under the present US Administration is engaged in a misplaced strategic initiative to enlist China as a partner in the strategic management of North East Asia and Asia. Japan</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> whose security environment has been made more threatening by China’s military ambitions and North Korea as a nuclear weapons state, courtesy China, </span><span class="CardChar0">views US moves towards China as strategically insensitive. Its spill-off effect on Japanese domestic politics is the growing figuring of US-Japan Security Relationship issues in Japan’s domestic politics</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, including frequent change of Prime Ministers. </span><span class="CardChar0">Japan’s recurrent political instability has a wide strategic impact on Japan’s policy formulations, crisis-management responses and its international image. Any further downslide in this direction can only help China and endanger US security interests and architecture in East Asia. The United States needs to awaken to this fact and also that the more “equitability” it endows to the Japan-US relationship may assist in lessening Japan’s political instability. </span>

**Political instability forces Japanese nationalism and nuclearization**
**Kapila, Strategic Affairs Analyst, ’10**
[Subhash Kapila, International Relations and Strategic Affairs analyst, South Asia Analysis Group Consultant, “Japan’s Political Instability & Its Strategic Impact, June 7th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.southasiaanalysis.org/papers39/paper3848.html|http://www.southasiaanalysis.org//papers39/paper3848.html]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Simply put, to the Chinese obsessed with strategic assessments based on estimation of ‘Comprehensive National Power’,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in Chinese perceptions, </span><span class="CardChar0">Japan's strategic power gets that much more devalued by Japan's political instability and the growing American ambiguities on Japan’s value to US strategic interests. Briefly, this could lead to China adopting more pressure tactics against Japan on contentious issues and China’s attempts to isolate Japan in North East Asia.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> More than a healthy and stable Japan-China relationship, there is a greater strategic imperative and a call on the United States that American approaches to China and over-bearing American approaches to contentious Japan-US security issues does not render Japan vulnerable to China’s strategic and political coercion. </span><span class="CardChar0">The strategic spin-off for China from such exploitation of Japan’s vulnerabilities could result in re-emergence of Japanese nationalism, a nuclear weapon and missiles arsenal and an independent military posture. That could impinge on the United States too.</span>


**And re-arm causes an Asian arms race—Risks of nuclearization outweighs any potential benefits**
**Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, Congressional Research Service Analyst & Analyst in Nonproliferation, ’09**
[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">To many security experts, the most alarming possible consequence of a Japanese decision to develop nuclear weapons would be the development of a regional arms race.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">33 </span><span class="CardChar0">The fear is based on the belief that a nuclear-armed Japan could compel South Korea to develop its own program; encourage China to increase and/or improve its relatively small arsenal; and possibly inspire Taiwan to pursue nuclear weapons. This in turn might have spill-over effects on the already nuclear-armed India and Pakistan. The</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> prospect—or even </span><span class="CardChar0">reality</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">—</span><span class="CardChar0">of several nuclear states rising in a region that is already rife with historical grievances and contemporary tension could be deeply destabilizing. The counter-argument</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, made by some security experts, </span><span class="CardChar0">is</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that nuclear deterrence was stabilizing during the Cold War, and </span><span class="CardChar0">a similar nuclear balance could be achieved in Asia. However, most observers maintain that the risks outweigh potential stabilizing factors. </span>

**Asian proliferation uniquely risks nuclear war—Proximity of antagonistic countries and outdated detection systems make miscalculation likely**
**Cimbala, Professor @ Penn. State, ’08**
[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci.—Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]
<span class="CardChar0">The spread of ballistic missiles and other nuclear-capable delivery systems in Asia, or in the Middle East with reach into Asia, is especially dangerous because plausible adversaries live close together and are already engaged in ongoing disputes about territory or other issues.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">13 The Cold War Americans and Soviets required missiles and airborne delivery systems of intercontinental range to strike at one another’s vitals. But </span><span class="CardChar0">short-range ballistic missiles or ﬁghter-bombers sufﬁce for India and Pakistan to launch attacks at one another with potentially “strategic” effects. China shares borders with Russia, North Korea, India, and Pakistan; Russia, with China and North Korea; India, with Pakistan and China; Pakistan, with India and China; and so on. The short ﬂight times of ballistic missiles between the cities or military forces of contiguous states means that very little time will be available for warning and attack assessment by the defender.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Conventionally </span><span class="CardChar0">armed missiles could easily be mistaken for a tactical nuclear ﬁrst use</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. Fighter-bombers appearing over the horizon could just as easily be carrying nuclear weapons as conventional ordnance. In addition to the challenges posed by shorter ﬂight times and uncertain weapons loads, potential victims of nuclear attack in Asia may also have ﬁrst strike–vulnerable forces and command-control systems that increase decision pressures for rapid, and possibly mistaken, retaliation.</span> <span class="CardChar0">This potpourri of possibilities challenges conventional wisdom about nuclear deterrence and proliferation on the part of policymakers and academic theorists. For policymakers in the United States and NATO, spreading nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in Asia could profoundly shift the geopolitics of mass destruction from a European center of gravity</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (in the twentieth century) </span><span class="CardChar0">to an Asian and/or Middle Eastern center of gravity</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (in the present century).14</span> <span class="CardChar0">This would profoundly shake up prognostications to the effect that wars of mass destruction are now passe</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, on account of the emergence of the “Revolution in Military Affairs” and its encouragement of information-based warfare.15 Together with this, there has emerged the argument that large-scale war between states or coalitions of states, as opposed to varieties of unconventional warfare and failed states, are exceptional and potentially obsolete.16</span> <span class="CardChar0">The spread of WMD and ballistic missiles in Asia could overturn these expectations for the obsolescence or marginalization of major interstate warfare. </span>

**And nuclearization causes rapid defections from the NPT**
**Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, Congressional Research Service Analyst & Analyst in Nonproliferation, ’09**
[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Diplomatically, the policy turn-about would have profound implications. Japan has built a reputation as a leader in non-proliferation and as a promoter of nuclear disarmament. It has consistently called for a “safe world free of nuclear weapons on the earliest possible date.”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Japan submits a resolution to the General Assembly’s First Committee each year on a nuclear-free world and submits working papers to the NPT review conferences and preparatory committees on disarmament. It has been a vocal advocate for IAEA verification and compliance and was the first to respond with sanctions to nuclear tests in South Asia and North Korea. It has been a constant voice in support of nuclear disarmament in international fora. </span><span class="CardChar0">An about-face on its non-nuclear weapon state status would dramatically change the global view of Japan, or might dramatically change the perception of nuclear weapons possession in the world. This move could have profound implications for nuclear proliferation elsewhere, perhaps leading to additional NPT withdrawals.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Acquiring nuclear weapons could also hurt Japan’s long-term goal of permanent membership on the U.N. Security Council. </span>


**Even a shift by Japan to consider nuclear weapons will trigger regional prolif and gut the NPT**
**Bakanic, Nuclear Weapons Analysis, ’08**
[6/9/08, Elizabeth D., BAS, “The end of Japan's nuclear taboo,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-end-of-japans-nuclear-taboo]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">All that said, </span><span class="CardChar0">by no means is Japan on the road to nuclear weapons development--or even considering it as a serious option.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Technically speaking, Japan has several huge constraints to nuclear weapons development--see "Preventing Nuclear Proliferation Chain Reactions: Japan, South Korea, and Egypt" and "Japan's Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests." </span><span class="CardChar0">So why should the world be concerned about Japan's fading nuclear allergy? Because </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Tokyo's attitude toward nuclear weapons is incredibly important</span></span><span class="CardChar0"> to Japan's neighbors and the nonproliferation regime, meaning subtle changes in its attitude could carry serious security consequences for both. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Historically, Japan has maintained complicated relations with many of its neighbors--specifically China, North Korea, and South Korea. While functional relationships do exist, deep mistrust and suspicions persist, creating a paranoid security environment where an innocuous change from an outside perspective sets off alarm bells in the region. So </span><span class="CardChar0">what may seem like a natural shift in Japan's nuclear attitudes may be a destabilizing change for those less trustful and less objective. Therefore, </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">if discussing nuclear weapons becomes more acceptable in Japan</span></span><span class="CardChar0">, China and the Koreas might perceive this as a dangerous development and use it as an excuse to increase their military capabilities--nuclear or otherwise. In terms of the teetering nonproliferation regime, a change in Japan's attitude toward nuclear weapons would be a </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">serious blow</span></span><span class="CardChar0">.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> To date, Tokyo has been a foremost advocate of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, campaigning against proliferation and rejecting the idea of developing nuclear weapons despite possessing the best nuclear capability of any non-nuclear weapon state and having two nuclear weapon states near its borders. The binding nature of international agreements relies on such attention and support from its signatories. So </span><span class="CardChar0">although Japan may never violate the treaty, if </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Tokyo is perceived as being less supportive as it opens up domestically on the nuclear issue</span></span><span class="CardChar0">, the effect on NPT morale could be dire, which speaks directly to the NPT's current vulnerability. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Some element of the changing attitude toward nuclear weapons in Japan must be due to discomfort with the status quo and a security need that the NPT or the country's other security partnerships isn't satisfying. Therefore, a disturbing factor of Japan's nuclear normalization is what it may symbolize for the NPT overall. </span>

**NPT prevents runaway global proliferation**
**Dunn, Former NPT Ambassador, ’09**
[Lewis A. Dunn, Senior vice president of Science Applications International Corp, Former assistant director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Ambassador for the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in the Reagan Administration, “THE NPT: Assessing the Past, Building the Future,” Nonproliferation Review, Vol. 16 No. 2, July 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://cns.miis.edu/npr/pdfs/npr_16-2_dunn.pdf]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Metric: </span><span class="CardChar0">Does NPT adherence provide a leverage point for outside influence and action to prevent proliferation? NPT adherence clearly provides a point of leverage</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, although the nature of that leverage* and its likely effectiveness*could vary depending on the country. In Iran’s case, its adherence to the NPT has been most useful as a rallying point for outside efforts to pressure Iranian leaders to think anew about their goals. UN Security Council Resolutions 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), 1803 (2008), and 1835 (2008) all reaffirmed the council’s support for the NPT, while Resolutions 1747 and 1803 both emphasized ‘‘the need for all States Parties to that Treaty to comply fully with all their obligations.’’ Moreover, some key European countries’ support for actions to stop Iran’s uranium enrichment activities has been linked to a belief*accurate or not*that Iranian acquisition of nuclear weapons would put at risk the overall NPT structure.19 Amid continuing tensions between the George W. Bush administration and other countries, Iran’s NPT obligations provided a ready basis to argue that the issue was not simply one of the United States versus Iran. To use a hypothetical example, let us imagine that due to some combination of the most recent North Korean volte-face on giving up its nuclear weapons, tensions with China, and uncertainty about the U.S. security link, pressures grow in Japan to pursue nuclear weapons. In this case, outside powers could use Japan’s NPT adherence as a leverage point to urge the Japanese leadership to think carefully about whether to take that step. Japan’s NPT adherence*and the need for it to go through procedures to withdraw from the NPT*would also help buy time for new initiatives to deal with future Japanese security concerns. Still another example of the leverage provided by NPT membership concerns possible action to be taken after a country has violated its obligations and broken out of the NPT. Iran may yet be a future case in point. Should Iran acquire nuclear weapons, the international community will need to take many actions to contain the regional and global spillovers.20 Those actions could well include measures to make Iran pay a price for violating the NPT, to signal resolve to Iran, to its threatened neighbors, and to the wider NPT community. The fact that Iran would have violated its legal obligations under the NPT would provide a stronger foundation for any such international punitive actions. Metric: Did widespread NPT adherence help reverse the perception that runaway proliferation was unavoidable? </span><span class="CardChar0">In the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> early 19</span><span class="CardChar0">60s, there was a growing fear that widespread proliferation of nuclear weapons was possibly unavoidable.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> President John F. Kennedy warned in 1963 that a world with many dozens of nuclear weapon states might emerge. This fear of runaway proliferation gave urgency to the negotiation of a nonproliferation treaty, not least because of the belief that growing worldwide use of nuclear power would place access to nuclear weapons material in the hands of many countries.21 </span><span class="CardChar0">Such warnings of runaway proliferation</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, however, </span><span class="CardChar0">could well have become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Fearful of a world of nuclear powers, many countries might have sought nuclear weapons lest they be left behind. Responding to such fears</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, the United States took actions to enhance the nuclear security of its European non-nuclear allies. In parallel, the United States, the Soviet Union, and many other </span><span class="CardChar0">countries joined together to create what became the nonproliferation regime. The NPT was and remains a key part of that regime.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Steadily growing </span><span class="CardChar0">membership in the NPT</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> after its opening for signature in 1968*including critical countries in Europe and Asia*provided a valuable symbol that </span><span class="CardChar0">demonstrated</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> to many countries </span><span class="CardChar0">that runaway proliferation was not the wave of the future.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> So did the prospect of an international system of nuclear safeguards*run by a then-new International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)*to prevent diversion of nuclear weapon materials from peaceful nuclear uses. In effect, partly because of more traditional security mechanisms and partly </span><span class="CardChar0">due to the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> growing </span><span class="CardChar0">NPT</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> membership, </span><span class="CardChar0">early fears of a world of runaway global proliferation became a self-denying prophecy. Today, fears have again emerged that runaway proliferation could develop. It is often argued that the spread of nuclear weapons is at a ‘‘tipping point,’’ that there is a danger of ‘‘cascading’’ proliferation</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, and that we could be entering a ‘‘new nuclear age.’’22 </span><span class="CardChar0">In this context, however, widespread adherence to the NPT alone will not suffice to counter fears of nuclear weapon proliferation. Rather, the NPT’s contribution to countering fears of runaway proliferation will depend heavily on whether there is a widespread perception that countries are complying fully with their NPT obligations.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Article II Net Assessment. The direct impact of Article II in preventing proliferation is mixed. Negotiation of the NPT with its ‘‘no manufacture, no acquisition’’ obligation forced a number of countries to decide whether or not to pursue nuclear weapons. Faced with that decision, important countries chose to renounce nuclear weapons. In deciding, states were motivated by a mix of considerations, and the NPT helped crystallize their decisions. By contrast, some prominent NPT parties have stayed in the NPT while pursuing nuclear weapons: North Korea, Iraq, and Libya*and quite possibly Iran. The indirect impact of Article II may be more compelling. </span><span class="CardChar0">The ‘‘no acquisition, no manufacture’’ obligation provides a nonproliferation leverage point for rallying outsiders, for engaging in dialogue with countries rethinking their nonproliferation commitment, and for taking action after NPT breakout. </span>

**Prolif creates multiple scenarios for nuclear war**
**Below, Masters Thesis for School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, ’08**
[Tim D.Q., Wing Commander, RAF; MA in Defence Studies, King’s College London; “Options for US nuclear disarmament: exemplary leadership or extraordinary lunacy?,” June 2008, Thesis for School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Proliferation. Roger Molander, of RAND Corporation, asserts that “</span><span class="CardChar0">in the near future, a large number of countries are each going to develop a small number of nuclear weapons.”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">50 </span><span class="CardChar0">The Union of Concerned Scientists considers this to be the greatest long term danger confronting both US and international security today.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">51 </span><span class="CardChar0">Proliferation increases risk in a number of ways. First, the more states that hold nuclear weapons, the more likely it is that one will have an insufficiently</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> mature or </span><span class="CardChar0">robust nuclear doctrine to manage its capability responsibly.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Tom Sauer suggests that </span><span class="CardChar0">developing states that do not have democratic political systems present a particularly high risk because</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in dictatorial regimes, </span><span class="CardChar0">the military are frequently in control, and</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> as Sagan has observed, </span><span class="CardChar0">the military appear to be more inclined to initiate preventative attacks against adversaries than civilians</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.52 </span><span class="CardChar0">Second, the more widely proliferated nuclear weapons become, the more</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> theoretical </span><span class="CardChar0">opportunities may be presented for theft</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of nuclear material. </span><span class="CardChar0">Third, proliferation increases the risk of nuclear intervention by an established nuclear power</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, including the five NWSs. Stephen Younger envisages several scenarios in which currently established nuclear powers might “feel a need” to intervene with nuclear weapons in present regional conflicts, especially if WMD are being employed or threatened. </span><span class="CardChar0">Moreover, since proliferation is frequently associated with reaction to nuclear development</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> either </span><span class="CardChar0">within a</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> bordering nation or </span><span class="CardChar0">regional counterpart</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, further proliferation is in turn likely to generate a quasi-exponential expansion of similar regional scenarios.53 Ambassador Lehman envisages a scenario in which </span><span class="CardChar0">proliferation may induce a chain reaction of</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> related </span><span class="CardChar0">regional arms races that could result in unintended</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> and unexpected </span><span class="CardChar0">consequences</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> far removed from the objectives of the proliferating nations, </span><span class="CardChar0">and</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the United States’ specific case, </span><span class="CardChar0">a risk that the nation could get sucked into a conventional regional conflict which is</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> subsequently </span><span class="CardChar0">escalated into nuclear warfare</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> by its allies or their opponents.54 </span>

**The terminal impact is extinction—Deterrence fails in a proliferated world**
**Krieger, President Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, ’09**
[David, Pres. Nuclear Age Peace Foundation and Councilor—World Future Council, “Still Loving the Bomb After All These Years”, 9-4, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jonathan </span><span class="CardChar0">Tepperman’s article</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the September 7, 2009 issue of Newsweek, “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb,” </span><span class="CardChar0">provides a novel but frivolous argument</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that </span><span class="CardChar0">nuclear weapons </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">“may not, in fact, make the world more dangerous….” Rather, in Tepperman’s world, “The bomb </span><span class="CardChar0">may actually make us safer.” Tepperman shares this world with</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Kenneth </span><span class="CardChar0">Waltz, a</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> University of California professor emeritus of political science, who Tepperman describes as “</span><span class="CardChar0">the leading ‘nuclear optimist</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.’” Waltz expresses his optimism in this way: “We’ve now had 64 years of experience since Hiroshima. It’s striking and against all historical precedent that for that substantial period, there has not been any war among nuclear states.” </span><span class="CardChar0">Actually, there were a number of proxy wars b</span><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">etween nuclear weapons states, such as</span></span><span class="CardChar0"> those in Korea, Vietnam and Afghanistan, and some near disasters,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the most notable being the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis. </span><span class="CardChar0">Waltz’s logic is akin to observing a man falling from a high rise building, and noting that he had already fallen for 64 floors without anything bad happening to him, and concluding that so far it looked so good that others should try it. Dangerous logic</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">! Tepperman builds upon Waltz’s logic, and concludes “that all states are rational,” even though their leaders may have a lot of bad qualities, including being “stupid, petty, venal, even evil….” He asks us to trust that rationality will always prevail when there is a risk of nuclear retaliation, because these weapons make “the costs of war obvious, inevitable, and unacceptable.” Actually, </span><span class="CardChar0">he is asking us to do more than trust in the rationality of leaders; he is asking us to gamble the future on this proposition</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. “The iron logic of deterrence and mutually assured destruction is so compelling,” Tepperman argues, “it’s led to what’s known as the nuclear peace….” But if this is a peace worthy of the name, which it isn’t, it certainly is not one on which to risk the future of civilization. </span><span class="CardChar0">One irrational leader with control over a nuclear arsenal could </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">start a nuclear conflagration, resulting in a global Hiroshima</span></span><span class="CardChar0">.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Tepperman celebrates “the iron logic of deterrence,” but deterrence is a theory that is far from rooted in “iron logic.” It is a theory based upon threats that must be effectively communicated and believed. Leaders of Country A with nuclear weapons must communicate to other countries (B, C, etc.) the conditions under which A will retaliate with nuclear weapons. The leaders of the other countries must understand and believe the threat from Country A will, in fact, be carried out. </span><span class="CardChar0">The longer that nuclear weapons are not used, the more other countries may come to believe that they can challenge Country A with impunity from nuclear retaliation. The more that Country A bullies other countries, the greater the incentive for these countries to develop their own nuclear arsenals</span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Deterrence is unstable</span></span><span class="CardChar0"> and therefore precarious.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Most of the countries in the world reject the argument, made most prominently by Kenneth Waltz, that the spread of nuclear weapons makes the world safer. These countries joined together in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, but they never agreed to maintain indefinitely a system of nuclear apartheid in which some states possess nuclear weapons and others are prohibited from doing so. The principal bargain of the NPT requires the five NPT nuclear weapons states (US, Russia, UK, France and China) to engage in good faith negotiations for nuclear disarmament, and the International Court of Justice interpreted this to mean complete nuclear disarmament in all its aspects. Tepperman seems to be arguing that seeking to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons is bad policy, and that nuclear weapons, because of their threat, make efforts at non-proliferation unnecessary and even unwise. If some additional states, including Iran, developed nuclear arsenals, he concludes that wouldn’t be so bad “given the way that bombs tend to mellow behavior.” Those who oppose Tepperman’s favorable disposition toward the bomb, he refers to as “nuclear pessimists.” </span><span class="CardChar0">These would be the people, and I would certainly be one of them, who see nuclear weapons as presenting an urgent danger to our security, our species and our future</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. </span><span class="CardChar0">Tepperman finds</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that when viewed from his “nuclear optimist” perspective, “nuclear weapons start to seem a lot less frightening.” “</span><span class="CardChar0">Nuclear peace,”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> he tells us, “</span><span class="CardChar0">rests on a scary bargain</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: </span><span class="CardChar0">you accept a small chance that something extremely bad will happen</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in exchange </span><span class="CardChar0">for a much bigger chance that something very bad—conventional war—won’t happen</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.” </span><span class="CardChar0">But the “extremely bad” thing he </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">a__sks us to accept is the end of the human__ </span></span><span class="CardChar0">species.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Yes, that would be serious. </span><span class="CardChar0">He also doesn’t make the case that in a world without nuclear weapons, the prospects of conventional war would increase dramatically.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> After all, </span><span class="CardChar0">it is only an unproven supposition that nuclear weapons have prevented wars, or would do so in the future. We have certainly come far too close to the precipice of catastrophic nuclear war.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> As an ultimate celebration of the faulty logic of deterrence, Tepperman calls for providing any nuclear weapons state with a “survivable second strike option.” Thus, he not only favors nuclear weapons, but finds the security of these weapons to trump human security. Presumably he would have President Obama providing new and secure nuclear weapons to North Korea, Pakistan and any other nuclear weapons states that come along so that they will feel secure enough not to use their weapons in a first-strike attack</span><span class="CardChar0">. Do we really want to bet the human future that Kim Jong-Il and his successors are more rational </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">than Mr. Tepperman? </span>

**And even if the NPT doesn’t formally collapse, Japanese Nuclearization will set a precedent for others to nuclearize**
**Carranza, Professor @ Texas A&M, ’06**
[MARIO E. CARRANZA, Professor of Political Science @ Texas A & M University, Kingsville, “Can the NPT Survive? The Theory and Practice of US Nuclear Non-proliferation Policy after September 11,” Contemporary Security Policy, Vol.27, No.3, December 2006, Pg. 489–525]
<span class="CardChar0">Even if the NPT does not formally collapse, a silent crowd armed with nuclear weapon capabilities could come into existence if countries such as Argentina, Brazil, Japan or Taiwan decide to reconsider their decision to give up nuclear weapons and secretly pursue a nuclear weapon option while remaining NPT parties.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 2. Collapse provoked by a chain reaction of defections. </span><span class="CardChar0">A latent proliferator party to the NPT could build or acquire uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing plants (such as Japan’s Tokai Mura), place them under IAEA safeguards and then withdraw from the treaty</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> giving the three months’ advance notice required by Article X.125 </span><span class="CardChar0">A chain reaction of defections would erode the norm of non-proliferation embodied in the NPT, as well as the role of the treaty as a confidence-building measure.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The credibility of the IAEA safeguards system has already been undermined by the discovery of secret nuclear weapons programmes in Saddam Hussein’s Iraq and North Korea and by the discovery of undisclosed—suspicious—nuclear activities in Iran. </span>

**Nuclear latency poses a unique risk. Rapid prolif risks nuclear war**
**Horowitz, Professor @ U Penn, ’09**
[Michael Horowitz, Former Emory debater and NDT Champion, Professor of Political Science @ University of Pennsylvania, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons and International Conflict: Does Experience Matter?,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, Volume 53 Number 2, April 200, Pg. 234-257]
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Learning as states gain experience with nuclear weapons is complicated. While to some extent </span><span class="CardChar0">nuclear acquisition</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> might provide information about resolve or capabilities, it also </span><span class="CardChar0">generates uncertainty about the way an actual conflict would go—given the new risk of nuclear escalation—and uncertainty about relative capabilities. Rapid proliferation may</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> especially </span><span class="CardChar0">heighten uncertainty given the potential for reasonable states to disagree at times about the quality of the capabilities each possesses.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">3 </span><span class="CardChar0">What follows is an attempt to describe the implications of inexperience and incomplete information on the behavior of nuclear states and their potential opponents</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> over time. Since it is impossible to detail all possible lines of argumentation and possible responses, the following discussion is necessarily incomplete. This is a first step. </span><span class="CardChar0">The acquisition of nuclear weapons increases the confidence of adopters</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in their ability to impose costs in the case of a conflict and the expectations of likely costs if war occurs by potential opponents. The key questions are whether nuclear states learn over time about how to leverage nuclear weapons and the implications of that learning, along with whether or not actions by nuclear states, over time, convey information that leads to changes in the expectations of their behavior—shifts in uncertainty—on the part of potential adversaries. Learning to Leverage? When a new state acquires nuclear weapons, how does it influence the way the state behaves and how might that change over time? Though nuclear acquisition might be orthogonal</span> to a particular dispute, it might be related to a particular security challenge, might signal revisionist aims with regard to an enduring dispute, or might signal the desire to reinforce the status quo. This section focuses on how acquiring nuclear weapons influences both the new nuclear state and potential adversaries. <span class="CardChar0">In theory, system-wide perceptions of nuclear danger could allow new nuclear states to partially skip the early Cold War learning process concerning the risks of nuclear war and enter a proliferated world more cognizant of nuclear brinksmanship</span> and bargaining <span class="CardChar0">than their predecessors. However</span>, each new nuclear state has to resolve its own particular civil-military issues surrounding operational control and plan its national strategy in light of its new capabilities. Empirical research by Sagan, Feaver, and Blair suggests that <span class="CardChar0">viewing the behavior of other states does not create the necessary tacit knowledge; there is no substitute for experience when it comes to handling a nuclear arsenal</span>, even if experience itself cannot totally prevent accidents (Blair 1993; Feaver 1992; Sagan 1993). Sagan contends that <span class="CardChar0">civil-military instability in</span> many likely <span class="CardChar0">new proliferators and pressures generated by the requirements to handle the responsibility of dealing with nuclear weapons will skew decision-making towards more offensive strategies</span> (Sagan 1995). The questions surrounding Pakistan’s nuclear command and control suggest there is no magic bullet when it comes to new nuclear powers making control and delegation decisions (Bowen and Wolvén 1999). Sagan and others focus on inexperience on the part of new nuclear states as a key behavioral driver. <span class="CardChar0">Inexperienced operators, and the bureaucratic desire to “justify” the costs spent developing nuclear weapons, combined with organizational biases that</span> may <span class="CardChar0">favor escalation to avoid decapitation, the “use it or lose it” mindset, may cause new nuclear states to adopt riskier launch postures</span>, like launch on warning, <span class="CardChar0">or at least be perceived that way</span> by other states (Blair 1993; Feaver 1992; Sagan 1995).4 <span class="CardChar0">Acquiring nuclear weapons could</span> alter state preferences and <span class="CardChar0">make them more likely to escalate disputes once they start, given their new capabilities</span>.5 <span class="CardChar0">But their general lack of experience</span> at leveraging their nuclear arsenal and effectively communicating nuclear threats <span class="CardChar0">could mean new nuclear states will be more likely to select adversaries poorly and find themselves in disputes with resolved adversaries that will reciprocate militarized challenges.</span> The “nuclear experience” logic also suggests that more experienced nuclear states should gain knowledge over time from nuclearized interactions that helps leaders effectively identify the situations in which their nuclear arsenal is likely to make a difference. Experienced nuclear states learn to select into cases where their comparative advantage, nuclear weapons, is more likely to be effective, increasing the probability that an adversary will not reciprocate. Coming from a slightly different perspective, uncertainty about the consequences of proliferation on the balance of power and the behavior of new nuclear states on the part of their potential adversaries could also shape behavior in similar ways (Schelling 1966; Blainey 1988). While a stable and credible nuclear arsenal communicates clear information about the likely costs of conflict, in the short-term nuclear proliferation is likely to increase uncertainty about the trajectory of a war, the balance of power, and the preferences of the adopter.

**Acquisition doesn’t matter—States will be dragged into escalatory wars during the pursuit process**
**Sobek et al., ’09**
[David Sobek, Prof, PoliSci, Louisiana State U; Dennis M. Foster, Prof, Int’l Studies and PoliSci, Virginia Military Institute; Samuel B. Robison, Ph.D. Candidate in PoliSci, Louisiana State U, “Conventional Wisdom? The Effect of Nuclear Proliferation on Armed Conflict, 1945-2001,” Prepared for presentation at the 2009 Midwest Political Science Association Meeting, Chicago. 2009-05-22, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p362138_index.html]]</span>]
<span class="CardChar0">States that are exploring nuclear weapons are more at risk of being targeted in a conventional militarized dispute</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> than non-proliferating states. </span><span class="CardChar0">At the active pursuit stage, one can assume that previous efforts to dissuade proliferators have been unsuccessful and that acquisition is much more likely to become a reality. In light of the heightened sense of urgency that would accompany this state of affairs, there are compelling reasons to believe that the probability of conventional force usage is relatively great</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. First, as noted in the destructive preemption literature, </span><span class="CardChar0">we are more likely to observe efforts to militarily target existing capabilities, as “hard targets” begin to take shape during the acquisition stage.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Moreover, in line with our bargaining process expectations, it is probable that opponents will redouble their conventional military efforts to reach a favorable settlement to the issue before acquisition. Put differently, </span><span class="CardChar0">active pursuit serves as a strong signal that the “expiration date” on the current bargaining environment is nigh. Overall, since the active pursuit of weapons decreases an opponent’s estimates of the risks and costs of preemptive destruction and increases the urgency with which it seeks to obtain the bargaining benefits of any conventional military action, we predict that targeting is more likely to be observed against nuclear “pursuers” than both non-proliferators and nuclear “explorers.”</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Hypothesis 1b: </span><span class="CardChar0">States that are actively pursuing nuclear weapons are more at risk of being targeted in a conventional militarized dispute than exploring and non-proliferating states.</span>

==[[#Affirmative-Wake Forest - Japan 1AC - Solvency]]Wake Forest - Japan 1AC - Solvency== 



**Contention Three is Solvency**

**The U.S. should scale back its Marine Presence in Okinawa by 15,000 troops to the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit—They are the only troops that can be deployed in combat situations**
**O’Hanlon, ’01**
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America; How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” March/April 2001, Foreign Affairs, Lexis] AP
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The United States keeps nearly 20,000 marines on Okinawa. These troops are an important part of the 100,000 U.S. military personnel based or deployed in the western Pacific region. In light of ongoing security concerns in the Taiwan Strait and on the Korean Peninsula, the Clinton administration felt it important to establish a floor below which U.S. military strength in the area would not drop. This goal was accomplished by the Pentagon's 1995 Nye report -- designed to articulate post -- Cold War U.S. military strategy for the Asia-Pacific -- which found that maintaining 100,000 service members in the region was an important symbol of sustained U.S. commitment. But six years later, that number needs rethinking.</span> <span class="CardChar0">About half of the marines on Okinawa are deployed there for several months. That makes Okinawa by far the largest regular Marine Corps commitment -- in fact, forces there at any given time usually exceed all other worldwide Marine Corps deployments combined.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Since the preparation and conduct of these missions is at the heart of the corps' raison d'etre, the marines rarely complain about such deployment. In addition, the marines' presence on Okinawa saves U.S. taxpayers money, since Japan foots much of the bill for operations and base needs. But </span><span class="CardChar0">the advantages of the deployment -- a diplomatic show of U.S. commitment to the Asia-Pacific, the lack of Marine Corps opposition, and its cost-effectiveness -- do not add up to a strategic rationale for keeping the marines there.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> And the Okinawa mission carries downsides as well that are not commonly recognized.</span> <span class="CardChar0">The marines, with their expeditionary philosophy and capabilities, provide too valuable an asset to squander on a deployment that is not militarily or strategically essential.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> By default, </span><span class="CardChar0">putting them on Okinawa effectively consumes operational resources that could be used elsewhere</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">: peace operations in the Balkans (to give the Army a break, for example), a humanitarian intervention or peace operation (should another genocide occur in Africa or elsewhere), exercises with foreign militaries, or responses to crises.</span> <span class="CardChar0">In addition, the marines on Okinawa are not so much forward-deployed as they are marooned. Okinawa itself is not at risk, and Japanese forces have the capacity to defend it even if it were. Furthermore, the three amphibious ships based in Japan can transport only the 2,000 marines of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, which patrols the region, </span><span class="CardChar0">to areas of actual threat elsewhere in the Pacific. The other 15,000 marines on Okinawa could not quickly deploy elsewhere with their equipment. In the event of a war, these troops could be flown to Korea without their heavy weaponry to help in noncombatant evacuations or similar missions. But they would have no advantage over infantry soldiers airlifted from the United States or local South Korean infantry troops. Keeping so many marines on Okinawa also places a major strain on U.S.-Japan relations</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">, as George Washington University Professor Mike Mochizuki has argued and as an increasingly broad swath of the U.S. defense community now recognizes. In terms of acreage, three-quarters of U.S. bases in Japan are on Okinawa, taking up almost 20 percent of the land of an island that is small and, as home to more than a million people, densely populated even by Japanese standards. Changes to the base structure agreed to in the 1990s will reduce the acreage of the U.S. bases on Okinawa by only about a fifth, even if they are carried out in full. (Local resistance to moving the marines' Futenma air base has stymied efforts to enact much of the plan.) Meanwhile, marine flights continue in and out of Futenma -- located right in the middle of Ginowan City -- with the associated risks of accidents. Polls in recent years showed that more than 80 percent of all Japanese consider the Okinawa arrangement undesirable and unfair to local citizens. By trying to hold on to all of its bases in Japan, the United States risks causing a backlash and ultimately losing everything, including those facilities with the greatest military benefit for crises in Korea, the Taiwan Strait, or elsewhere -- notably, the Kadena Air Force base on Okinawa and U.S. Navy and Air Force facilities on Japan's main islands.</span> <span class="CardChar0">Washington should therefore scale back the number of marines on Okinawa to about 5,000. The 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit should remain, as should enough forces to maintain storage and staging facilities for use in a crisis. But most other marines should go elsewhere in the region or return home, and most Marine Corps facilities and training ranges should be returned to Japanese use.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Compensating steps should be taken, notably increased storage of U.S. military supplies on Okinawa or on ships in Japanese ports to facilitate rapid deployments in the region. Tokyo might well pay for the necessary equipment and many of the redeployment costs. Ideally, Japan would also increase its direct military contributions to the alliance. But major reductions in the marines on Okinawa need not await the normalization of Japanese security policy.</span>

**Closing Futenma is the test case for a truly equal alliance—Officials in the White House are blinded by the situations’ potential**
**Van Wolferen, Professor @ U Amsterdam, ’10**
[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Another crucial subject, a potential hindrance on the path to Minshuto’s success, does not receive the close media attention it deserves. </span><span class="CardChar0">The U.S.-Japan relationship was something that practically everyone took for granted. The problem has been that Washington has not treated Japan as a fully independent country. This situation has already been fundamentally changed by the Hatoyama cabinet. Merely by having opened the subject of inequality for discussion means that things can never be the same again. But the Obama administration is apparently not ready</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> for a non-Jiminto government, which was made poignantly clear by the stern messages of Hillary Clinton just before the election and those of Robert Gates soon after it. </span><span class="CardChar0">The matter of moving an American Marine base in Okinawa is apparently being turned into a test case to see whether the new government understands who is boss. Many governments</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, including Washington, </span><span class="CardChar0">have long wished for Japan to take a more active role on the world stage.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Its economic might changed the fate of industries in the United States and Europe, but </span><span class="CardChar0">from a geopolitical point of view, and in diplomacy, it was barely visible. The rest of the world got used to what was early on labeled as an ‘economic giant but political dwarf’. And now, when the new government says that this undesirable imbalance must change, Americans can only whine about military base arrangements different from what they want.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The two cases of the public prosecutor relentlessly pursuing supposed lawbreaking by Ozawa and American insistence on Japan implementing what Washington had earlier forced the Jiminto to agree to in 2006 have something in common. They share the lack of a general sense of proportion. A stranger to Japan, just reading big newspaper headlines between December and February on a visit, would get the impression that Ozawa was trying to evade something like a murder conviction. Any financial misreporting by Ozawa’s assistants, a misdemeanor that in other democracies would be quietly investigated, does not remotely have the weight warranting the pillory of Ozawa we have just witnessed. And considering that the public prosecutor had so little to go on that he was forced to dismiss the case against Ozawa himself, we can only conclude that things have been crazily out of proportion. That such a relatively small thing could be the source of speculation about an end to the first Minshuto cabinet, and be the basis of daily front page reporting of mainly invented public opinion about the need for Ozawa to resign, like the fever chart of a hospital patient, would make strangers unacquainted with Japanese ways wonder about the sanity of political life here. I just read an editorial in one of the major newspapers that makes the point that while no evidence could be found, this does not mean that Ozawa is innocent. It is a statement that indicates a state of hysteria among some editors, giving the impression that it has become a personal vendetta for them. </span><span class="CardChar0">In the Futenma base case we see a new American presidency entirely missing the significance of what is happening in Japan. Obama and his advisers risk undermining new possibilities for creating a stable new cooperative relationship. Over what? Over something that ought to be minuscule in their global strategic vision. We learn from this that the Obama administration does not have its act together with respect to the revamped diplomatic attitude toward the world it announced when taking over from</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> George W. </span><span class="CardChar0">Bush. It also proves that the American military has taken over far more American foreign policy than the details that relate to the countries it occupies. But considering that almost all of the top American officials dealing with Japan are ‘alumni’ of the Pentagon, this lack of a sense of proportion, this tunnel vision, should not surprise us.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> When you can upset something very big with something that in neutral eyes can only be judged to be pretty small you have extraordinary power. We need to contemplate the vagaries of power when we contemplate the story of today’s Japan. It has undergone the biggest power-shift since the 1950s, and Minshutohas already changed some things beyond a point where they can go back to what they were. But that does not mean that its power has been consolidated. Its strength will be tested again and again. An untimely departure of the Hatoyama cabinet would be very unfortunate. With the Jiminto in charge, an annual change of prime minister hardly mattered. But a return to the ‘musical chairs’ method of change would be disastrous for Japan’s political future. The consolidation ofMinshuto power will, of course, require dealing with the problem of the misplaced priorities of the public prosecutor, and of journalists who feed on leaks from the prosecutor's office like mad dogs. When Ozawa first became the target of investigations last spring, which forced him to resign as Minshuto president, foregoing the chance to become prime minister, several Diet members were quoted as saying that if the prosecutor’s office “would apply the same standards to all of us”, the Diet would be as good as empty. To be sure, the public prosecutor theoretically would have had the power in Jiminto days of emptying, say, half the Diet. But you can imagine that this power would not last beyond the first move of such idiotic action, because everyone in Japan, including the newspapers would conclude that the public prosecutor had gone mad. This thought experiment demonstrates an important quality of power: it is not absolute. Power is a rather elusive thing; hard to catch conceptually in a concrete way. It has no substance that relates in any way to the laws of Newtonian physics. You cannot measure it, count it, or express it in numbers. The attempts of some specialists in political science to quantify power fail miserably. Power is in essence different from influence, which can be measured. It derives its nature to a large extent through what it is in the eyes of the recipient, the person or group to which it is directed (and is in this way somewhat comparable to love). Take an example from recent history. You will remember what happened to the power of the Soviet Union just before the end of the Cold War. A huge power system existed, which was believed to be unshakeable. It had defined the nature of our post-World-War-II geopolitics. Then something relatively small triggered events that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In no time in 1989 the great power emanating from Moscow that kept populations in Eastern Europe in thrall was gone. It vanished in less than a week. Why? Because it rested on the psychology of fear. Fear of Soviet tanks. And that disappeared suddenly because Gorbachev demonstrated that he had meant what he said about not using violence to stop developments. What we have just witnessed in Japan, and will probably witness again, is a power struggle. On one side, reformist politicians eager to implement true reform of the structure of the Japanese power system, and on the other venerable career officials who believe that the established order is something sacred. But the power of these career officials will melt like ice and snow when editorial writers and television commentators warm up to the exciting political possibilities that have opened up for Japan. Being human beings interested in public affairs, as well as Japanese with at least a residual sense of patriotism, such a switch of focus ought not be too difficult for them. With the U.S.-Japan relationship we have another very curious power relationship, whose problems could be solved in favor of Japan. The world’s two greatest industrial powers relate to each other in unique fashion; there is nothing comparable to it. Hatoyama’s critics who blame him for mishandling diplomacy vis-à-vis Washington overlook the fact that normal diplomacy is not possible in this case, because the United States does not truly recognize Japanese sovereignty—an indispensable condition for diplomacy. It has been taken as a matter of course that Japan would in the end always do what the United States wanted. The Hatoyama government must deal with unfinished post-World War II business that its Jiminto predecessors have never looked straight in the eye. </span><span class="CardChar0">People speak automatically about the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">and Japan as allies. But, again, we have a conceptual problem here. An alliance is a relationship entered into voluntarily by two or more independent states. When this supposed alliance began Japan had no choice in the matter. During the Occupation following World War II, Washington turned Japan into a protectorate, and has since continued to treat to Japan as such—while, more recently, urging Japan to participate in American military ventures in other countries. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Virtual protectorate status has certainly had some great advantages. Japan’s very rapid growth as a trading power was much facilitated by its sheltering in the American strategic and diplomatic shadow. </span><span class="CardChar0">But, most importantly for Japan’s place in the world until recently was that the main things by which a state is recognized internationally were carried out by American proxy. In other words, Japan did not need to present itself to other countries with a strong government, capable of making fundamental political decisions. We only need to think this through to see the connection between Japan’s lack of a political steering wheel until now and its pathological dependence on the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates. I think that the foremost Minshuto politicians, and certainly Ozawa, are aware of the mutual dependence of these two factors. As long as the United States appeared to supply a substitute for genuine large-scale Japanese diplomacy and strategic arrangements, there was no urgent need for a Japanese government capable of supplying those. </span><span class="CardChar0">And as long as no formal government in Tokyo balked at Japan being treated as a protectorate Washington could afford to meet Japanese sensibilities with disdain, as it is doing now with respect to the Marines on Okinawa. It is therefore natural that by establishing a true political center the conditions that have kept this dependency relationship going are radically altered. </span>

**That’s uniquely key—an equal alliance is key to create the perception of a stable alliance**
**Nye et al., 2K**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">Because the stakes are so high in Asia, it is urgent that the United States and Japan develop a common perception and approach regarding their relationship in the 21st century. The potential for conflict in Asia is lowered dramatically by a visible and “real” U.S.-Japan defense relationship</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. The use of bases granted by Japan allows the U.S. to affect the security environment from the Pacific to the Persian Gulf. </span><span class="CardChar0">The revised Guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, the basis for joint defense planning, should be regarded as the floor—not the ceiling—for an expanded Japanese role in the transpacific alliance, and the uncertainties of the post-Cold War regional setting require a more dynamic approach to bilateral defense planning. Japan’s prohibition against collective self defense is a constraint on alliance cooperation.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Lifting this prohibition would allow for closer and more efficient security cooperation. This is a decision that only the Japanese people can make. The United States has respected the domestic decisions that form the character of Japanese security policies and should continue to do so. </span><span class="CardChar0">But Washington must make clear that it welcomes a Japan that is willing to make a greater contribution and to become a more equal alliance partner. We see the special relationship between the United States and Great Britain as a model. </span>


**Only closing Futenma can reorient the Alliance to deal with pressing security matters**
**O’Hanlon, Senior Fellow @ Brookings, ’10**
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Window on Washington / Putting 1 Okinawa air base in perspective,” February 3rd 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100203dy01.htm]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">For 15 years, the two largest economies on Earth and two of the world's top military powers have spent much of their alliance management time discussing the fate of one airfield, the U.S. Marine Corps' Futenma Air Station on the island of Okinawa. This is a poor preoccupation for the allies given the other, huge issues that confront the two countries--dealing with nuclear North Korea, the rise of China, the global problem of Islamic extremism, wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and many other matters such as recovery from the global recession and mitigation of the global warming threat. It is time to move beyond it. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Various efforts have been made to propose ways to relocate the base in the past. Of course as we all know, it was to go to another part of the main Okinawa Island, given the current facility's location in the heart of Ginowan City and the associated problems of noise, risk of accident, and interference with local economic development strategies. The arrival of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama in office, just as a deal finally seemed to be coming together, and now a mayoral election on Okinawa in the jurisdiction that was to host the new base have thrown the latest monkey wrench into the mix. Hatoyama's reluctance pits him against not only the Liberal Democratic Party, but the Japanese bureaucrats who would implement the deal, and the United States--which has said its entire willingness to relocate half of its marines from Okinawa to Guam is contingent on Hatoyama accepting what other parties saw as a done deal. There are arguments on all sides of this issue. </span><span class="CardChar0">Supporters of the proposal to relocate the base on the island note that it is militarily important, economically helpful to Okinawa, which lacks a strong alternative economy, and diplomatically sound as a reasonable and long-sought compromise to the interests of the United States, Japan in general, and Okinawans in particular. But Hatoyama points to the fact that tiny Okinawa continues to host more than half of all U.S. military forces based in Japan, and that its people have been continually conflicted about this sometimes burdensome presence for decades. Some Okinawans worry about the environmental effects of the proposed new airfield site on local sea life; others seek to minimize their island's future economic dependence on the American military. Along with </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">George Washington University professor and Japan expert </span><span class="CardChar0">Mike Mochizuki, I have long argued that the Kadena Air Force Base on Okinawa is much more militarily important than Futenma, given its likely role in possible conflicts in Korea, the Taiwan Strait or elsewhere as well as its role as a hub in the American global military base network. Preserving local political support for Kadena is therefore much more impotant than holding onto Futenma or its successor. Our analyses suggest that a modest number of helicopter and fixed-wing flights can be handled at Kadena, moreover, for day-to-day marine operations. Just as we make pragmatic decisions in other parts of the world</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, including the broader Middle East and Korea, </span><span class="CardChar0">about when to relocate our forces for the greater good of an alliance, we can factor local sensitivities into this issue as well. Moreover, delays in making a decision on relocation, while frustrating for those working on the problem, do not prevent the United States from ongoing use of Futenma as well as other facilities on Okinawa in the meantime. Provided that the United States could improve its contingency access to other airfields on Okinawa for use in a possible crisis or war, the United States could make do without Futenma or a substitute. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">However it makes no sense to keep more than 15,000 marines on Okinawa without a dedicated airfield, so in this event, Japan should follow through on its commitment to help finance a major move of many marines from Okinawa to Guam, including an alternative airfield there. Japan only has to spend 1 percent of its gross domestic product on its military, whereas the United States spends 4 to 5 percent and bears a far higher burden in terms of actual combat operations, in an alliance that suits both their purposes but offers Japan the better bargain at the moment on balance. Using commercial or Japanese military airfields in a crisis or war is allowed under the 1996 and 1997 agreements between Tokyo and Washington governing base use in Japan; prestationing of some supplies and engineering equipment on these other airfields could go a long ways toward mitigating the downsides of any loss of a permanent air station. As such, </span><span class="CardChar0">Prime Minister Hatoyama is right not to feel streamrolled by the arguments of defense professionals and establishment figures that Futenma or its successor are militarily crucial to the future of the alliance. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">However, Hatoyama has another challenge--to avoid using the Okinawa issue as a way to show his distance from LDP governments and prove his mettle as a reformer. </span><span class="CardChar0">One must not exaggerate the inconvenience or insult to Okinawans from the existing plan for relocating the airfield, which as noted reflects 15 years of negotiations that attempted to factor Okinawan interests into the proposed solution. And at a time when many Western nations led by the United States--but notably not including Japan--are asking their soldiers to risk their lives on global military operations, it is important not to exaggerate the degree to which the Okinawans are being asked to sacrifice disproportionately. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">So what it comes down to is this: Prime Minister Hatoyama, as the sovereign leader of a sovereign state, has every right to rethink previous commitments of his country, just as he already has in replacing Japan's Indian Ocean resupply operations for U.S. Navy ships there with a larger aid package for Afghanistan. But that latter policy suggests the way forward here, too: if Hatoyama is to walk away unilaterally from a deal that others in Japan and the United States have worked hard to create, he needs to do something real, and big, and historic instead. Perhaps it would be best if Japan did a little less to please Americans on the issue of bases and host nation military support--provided that it do more in another way. Providing substantial numbers of Japanese peacekeeping troops for Sudan and Congo, as part of the ongoing U.N. missions in those places, comes to mind as a good example of possible contributions consistent with Japanese political sensibilities and with the proper role of a great power on the world stage. </span><span class="CardChar0">Moving toward a true alliance in this way could do much to not only ease the pain over an Okinawa base disagreement, but transcend it as well, and get what Ambassador Mike Mansfield called "the world's most important bilateral relationship" two decades ago. If Mansfield's words are to remain true, or even partly true, today, we need to lift our sights above bickering over bases and put strategy and the world's real problems back at the center of our alliance. </span>

**The dispute over Futenma is the key obstacle to a durable alliance—removing the base is key to make the alliance politically sustainable**
**Konishi & Avery, Congressional Research Service Analysts, ’09**
[Weston S. Konishi, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Adjunct fellow at the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, Member of the United States Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” Congressional Research Service, July 23rd 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/128832.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">The reduction of Marines from about 18,000 to 11,000 on Okinawa seeks to quell the political controversy that has surrounded the presence of U.S. forces in the southernmost part of Japan for years. Public outcry against the bases has continued since the</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 1995 </span><span class="CardChar0">rape of a Japanese schoolgirl by</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> an </span><span class="CardChar0">American serviceman, and was renewed after a U.S. military helicopter crashed into a crowed university campus in 2004.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Though constituting less than 1% of Japan’s land mass, Okinawa currently hosts 65% of the total U.S. forces in Japan. Okinawan politicians, along with the opposition Democratic Party of Japan, have called for a renegotiation of the Japan-U.S. Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) and a reduction in U.S. troop strength. The U.S. and central Japanese governments have opposed revising the SOFA, but </span><span class="CardChar0">Japan has increasingly pushed the U.S. to alleviate the burden of its military presence in Okinawa.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">9 </span><span class="CardChar0">The DPRI review identified friction between the U.S. forces stationed in Okinawa and the local population as a key obstacle to a durable alliance. In addition to the 1995 rape conviction, complaints about noise pollution from the air bases and concern about safety issues after the crash of a helicopter in August 2004 convinced alliance managers that the burden on Okinawa’s urban areas needed to be reduced in order to make the alliance more politically sustainable. As part of the realignment of U.S. bases, U.S. officials agreed to move most aircraft and crews constituting the Marine Air Station at Futenma</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (a highly populated area) </span><span class="CardChar0">to expanded facilities at Camp Schwab, located in a less-congested area of Okinawa. The challenge of replacing Futenma had dogged alliance managers for years</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">: since 1996, both sides had worked to implement the Special Action Committee on Okinawa (SACO) Report, which called for the return of 12,000 acres of land to the Japanese, provided that appropriate replacement facilities were arranged. </span><span class="CardChar0">In addition to the Futenma agreement, the United States agreed to relocate the Okinawa-based III Marine Expeditionary Force</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (III MEF), which includes 8,000 U.S. personnel and their dependents, </span><span class="CardChar0">to new facilities in Guam.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In return, Tokyo promised to pay $6.09 billion of the $10.27 billion estimated costs associated with the move. </span><span class="CardChar0">With the DPRI review and the revitalized alliance, new momentum led to a tentative agreement in 2006. However, implementation of the agreement has been slow and reflects the long-standing struggle between the Okinawan and central Tokyo governments. Public opposition and cost overruns threaten to further stall the Futenma relocation plan.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Nevertheless, some progress has been made in the Guam relocation initiative. In February 2009, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Japanese Foreign Minister Hirofumi Nakasone signed a new agreement on implementing the Guam relocation plans by 2014. </span>

**Closing Futenma key to transform the alliance and address security challenges in the region**
**Klingner, ’09**
[Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia @ The Heritage Foundation’s Asian Studies Center, Former Chief of CIA’s Korea Branch, “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment,” December 16th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/12/US-Should-Stay-Firm-on-Implementation-of-Okinawa-Force-Realignment#_ftn1]]</span>] AP
<span class="CardChar0">The Futenma controversy has caused the Obama and Hatoyama administrations' relationship to get off on the wrong foot. Frustration, suspicion, and anger are increasing in both capitals, threatening to create a crisis of confidence. The FRF controversy has</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, in the words of one U.S. official, </span><span class="CardChar0">"sucked the air out of the room" by redirecting alliance attention away from strategically important regional and global security issues. The Futenma dispute has already harmed the bilateral alliance. The extent of the damage will depend on the responses of both countries. The alliance is not yet in crisis, but if the situation is mishandled, the alliance could be headed for one.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> The U.S. and Japan need to keep in mind that the alliance is critically important for both countries and that the contentious issues are only one part of the broader relationship. </span><span class="CardChar0">Washington and Tokyo need to work together to reduce the current tension level and to refocus on transforming the alliance to address security challenges. </span>

**The U.S. should start refashioning the alliance by closing Futenma. Allows for Japan to maintain regional stability—The Marines are not needed.**
**Bandow, ’10**
[Doug Bandow, Senior Fellow @ The Cato Institute, Former Special Assistant to Ronald Reagan, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” May 12th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Thus the U.S. reliance on Okinawa. Lieutenant General Keith Stalder, the Marine Corps Pacific commander, said the island deployment is "the perfect model" for the alliance's objectives of "deterring, defending and defeating potential adversaries." </span><span class="CardChar0">For years the most obvious target of the American forces was North Korea, with the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(MEF) </span><span class="CardChar0">expected to reinforce the Republic of Korea in the event of war. Yet the ROK is both financially and manpower rich. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">More recently some Americans have talked about deploying the MEF to seize Pyongyang's nuclear weapons in the event of a North Korean collapse. Alas, so far the North has proved to be surprisingly resilient, so the Marines might wait a long time to undertake this mission. </span><span class="CardChar0">Checking China is next on the potential Okinawa mission list. However, no one expects the United States to launch a ground invasion of the People's Republic of China irrespective of the future course of events. Thus, the MEF wouldn't be very useful in any conflict. In any case, a stronger Japanese military </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">— which already possesses potent capabilities — </span><span class="CardChar0">would be a far better mechanism for encouraging responsible Chinese development. There's also the kitchen sink argument: the Marines are to maintain regional "stability." Pentagon officials draw expanding circles around Okinawa to illustrate potential areas of operation. The mind boggles, however. Should U.S. troops be sent to resolve</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, say, the long-running Burmese guerrilla war in that nation's east, a flare-up of secessionist sentiment in Indonesia, violent opposition to Fiji's military dictator, or </span><span class="CardChar0">border skirmishes </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">between Cambodia and Thailand? </span><span class="CardChar0">It’s hard to imagine any reason for Washington to jump into any local conflict. America's presumption should be noninvolvement rather than intervention in other nations' wars. Making fewer promises to intervene would allow the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">to reduce the number of military personnel and overseas bases. A good place to start in cutting international installations would be Okinawa. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">America's post-Cold War dominance is coming to an end. Michael Schuman argued in Time: "Anyone who thinks the balance of power in Asia is not changing — and with it, the strength of the U.S., even among its old allies — hasn't been there lately." </span><span class="CardChar0">Many analysts nevertheless want the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">to attempt to maintain its unnatural dominance. Rather than accommodate a more powerful China, they want America to contain a wealthier and more influential Beijing. Rather than expect its allies to defend themselves and promote regional stability, they want Washington to keep its friends dependent. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">To coin a phrase, it's time for a change. </span><span class="CardChar0">U.S. intransigence over Okinawa has badly roiled the bilateral relationship. But even a more flexible basing policy would not be enough. Washington is risking the lives and wasting the money of the American people to defend other populous and prosperous states. Washington should close Futenma — as a start to refashioning the alliance with Japan. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rather than a unilateral promise by the United States to defend Japan, the relationship should become one of equals working together on issues of mutual interest. </span><span class="CardChar0">Responsibility for protecting Japan should become that of Japan. </span>

**Restructuring the Alliance key to assertive Japanese foreign policy and regional stability—Europe proves.**
**Ikenberry & Kupchan, ’10**
[G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton, Charles A. Kupchan, Professor of International Affairs @ Georgetown, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “A New Japan, a New Asia,” January 21st 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This week marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan alliance, but the Obama administration seems sincerely flummoxed as to whether to bemoan or commemorate the occasion. On the one hand, </span><span class="CardChar0">U.S. officials have reacted with </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">considerable </span><span class="CardChar0">discomfort to the more independent </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and assertive </span><span class="CardChar0">policies of the new Japanese government. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Secretary of Defense Robert </span><span class="CardChar0">Gates called Tokyo's desire to reopen debate about the location of U.S. bases in Okinawa "counterproductive" </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and the alternatives to current plans "politically untenable and operationally unworkable." On the other hand, President </span><span class="CardChar0">Obama observed during his visit to Tokyo </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in November that </span><span class="CardChar0">the U.S.-Japan relationship must be one of "equals" and "not a senior-vs-junior partnership." And </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Deputy Secretary of State James </span><span class="CardChar0">Steinberg </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">last week </span><span class="CardChar0">welcomed the </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">"expression of Japan's vibrant democracy" and the </span><span class="CardChar0">opportunity to "conduct an open dialogue on shaping the future of the alliance." As the Obama administration struggles to sort out its Japan policy, it should tilt decidedly toward welcoming rather than rebuffing the fresh approach of the government of </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Prime Minister Yukio </span><span class="CardChar0">Hatoyama. While a cold response to his more assertive foreign policy is predictable</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">--Tokyo since World War II has consistently deferred to its U.S. protector--</span><span class="CardChar0">it is sorely misguided. In questioning the location of the Okinawa bases and seeking a relationship with China not entirely mediated by Washington, the new government is not attempting to demote Japan's alliance with the United States. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">On the contrary, </span><span class="CardChar0">it is seeking to update the alliance to the new political and strategic environment in the region. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rather than warning Tokyo to return to the fold, </span><span class="CardChar0">Washington should work with the Hatoyama government to forge a healthier and more mature relationship. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The election last year of the Democratic Party represents a watershed in Japanese politics, bringing to an end the post-war reign of the Liberal Democratic Party. In breaking the lock that the L.D.P. had on Japanese politics, the D.P.J. has cleared the way for pressures long pent up to rise to the surface. </span><span class="CardChar0">Many voters long for Japan to become a "normal" country - one that assumes more geopolitical responsibility and conducts a foreign policy made in Tokyo</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, not Washington. </span><span class="CardChar0">Mr. Hatoyama has pledged to address citizens' concerns about the social ills that U.S. bases have brought to their communities. And he has vowed to cut back the power of entrenched bureaucrats, who for decades preserved the status quo on foreign policy. Among older Japanese, for whom the U.S.-Japan alliance enjoyed a sacred status, this status quo was more than acceptable. But younger Japanese have begun to ask tough questions</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - to which Mr. Hatoyama is seeking answers. </span><span class="CardChar0">Tokyo's search for a more autonomous foreign policy is also a reflection of a changing strategic environment. China's rise is reshaping the region. It has become Japan's largest export market. Beijing has discovered the merits of regional engagement, opening the door to a new level of dialogue with Japan. Meanwhile, North Korea's nuclear program has provided a new urgency to regional dialogue, encouraging Japan to step out from behind the shadow of U.S. power. Japan is in many respects beginning to travel down the road taken by Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. With the end of the Cold War, the European Union both quickened its pace of regional integration and yearned for more autonomy from Washington. Germany and France even led the charge against the Iraq war </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in 2003, </span><span class="CardChar0">and the trans-Atlantic alliance emerged the stronger for it. Europe no longer grumbles about the excesses of U.S. power. And the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates </span><span class="CardChar0">enjoys the benefits of a more independent and capable Europe that is shouldering a heavy burden in Afghanistan, leading the effort to curb climate change, and helping to stabilize the global economy. Japan needs to similarly update its alliance with the U</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">nited </span><span class="CardChar0">S</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">tates, getting a measure of distance from Washington, but </span><span class="CardChar0">ultimately making the partnership stronger and more mature. Japan has the potential to be a regional leader on peacekeeping, foreign aid and clean energy technology. As Japan deepens its bilateral relationship with China, the two countries may finally have the opportunity to replicate the kind of rapprochement achieved by France and Germany after World War II. In the same way that Europeans built a self-sustaining regional peace, Japan should capitalize on the stability afforded by its alliance with the U.S. to make a push for Sino-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration. A more assertive and independent Japan promises to do much more for East Asia and the United States than a Japan that defers to Washington. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">It is past time for Washington and Tokyo to bring the alliance into the 21st century. </span>

**Assertive Japanese foreign policy key to sustainable multilateral peace in Asia**
**Sukma, ’10**
[Rizal Sukma, Executive Director @ The Centre for Strategic & International Studies, Ph.D. in International Relations from The London School of Economics & Politial Science, “East Asia need a strong Japan,” July 14th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/06/14/east-asia-needs-a-strong-japan.html]]</span>] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A change of head of government in Japan no longer surprises anyone. Two weeks ago, Yukio Hatoyama resigned as prime minister and was replaced by former finance minister Naoto Kan. Indeed, over the last four years, Japan has had several prime ministers. The victory of Japan’s Democratic Party (DPJ), which brought an end to the domination of Japanese politics by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), failed to ensure the stability of government in Japan. </span><span class="CardChar0">Protracted uncertainties in Japanese politics have</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> further </span><span class="CardChar0">undermined the country’s efforts to regain its status as a significant player in East Asia. As the region is being transformed by the rise of China and the arrival of India as two new major powers, Japan has struggled to prove its relevance in the regional strategic equation.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> It is true that Japan remains an important economic power in the region and beyond. Yet, </span><span class="CardChar0">East Asia has</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> now </span><span class="CardChar0">become a region shaped by countries with both economic and strategic significance. Even as an economic power, Japan is being challenged by China as the second largest economy in the world, and the prospect for Japan to revitalize its economy remains uncertain.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In fact, Prime Minister Kan even warned that Japan could face a similar fate as Greece if it did not resolve its mounting national debt, which has reached 218.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009. Aware of the danger, as a new leader, Prime Minister Kan has promised to restore Japan’s economic vitality and aimed for more than 2 percent of annual growth by 2020. The challenge for Japan in achieving that target is enormous. In addition to economic problems, the dynamic of Japan’s internal politics often renders it difficult for any government to push for necessary reforms. For example, it is not immediately clear how long Prime Minister Kan would survive. One cannot be sure whether the DPJ would be able to maintain its grip on power in the next election. Despite all the difficulties, we hope Japan would be able to withstand the challenges. </span><span class="CardChar0">As international relations in East Asia enter its most crucial juncture, the role of Japan as a major regional power is very much needed. It is for the first time in Asia’s history that regional politics would be characterized by more than two powerful players. China will undoubtedly soon emerge as the most powerful country, second only to the US. India too will become a power that would shape the future of East Asia. As a result, a new emerging regional order is in the making. Southeast Asian countries, having good relationships with all four major powers, expect that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will continue to be peaceful and to the benefits of all regional nations</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, small and big. I, for one, believe that </span><span class="CardChar0">some sort of multi-polar structure in East Asia would ensure that the region continues to enjoy the stability it has experienced over the last five decades. In that context, a strong Japan would greatly contribute to the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. A strong Japan would be beneficial for the fulfillment of the ideal of an East Asian community. The role that Japan has played in Southeast Asia — an important component of East Asia’s stability and security — has helped the region flourish economically, which in turn contributes to peace and stability in the region.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Southeast Asian states wish to see Japan, under the new administration led by Prime Minister Kan, to succeed. </span><span class="CardChar0">Southeast Asian states, and also East Asia as a whole, needs a strong partnership with Japan to ensure that the 21st century is indeed an Asian century.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Indonesia is no exception. Our relationship with Japan will continue to occupy an important place in our foreign policy. Japan is the largest trading partner and investor in Indonesia. Japan has been playing an important role in our economic development and is a fellow democracy with whom we share many values and norms.</span>


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**GDS - Japan 1AC - Inherency**</span>== 

**Contention 1—Welcome to the World**

**American insistence on creating a new replacement facility for Futenma Air Station after the base’s closure in Japan is preventing Japan from developing ties with other East Asian countries and creating uncertainty over the stability of the U.S.-Japan Alliance.**
**Talmadge, ’10**
[Eric Talmadge, Writer for The Associated Press, “US-Japan security alliance strained by base decision, other pressures on its 50th anniversary,” May 22nd 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/world/us-japan-security-alliance-strained-by-base-decision-other-pressures-on-its-50th-anniversary-96862119.html]]</span>] AP
Uncertainty over a Marine base and plans to move thousands of U.S. troops to Guam are straining a post-World War II security alliance Japan and the United States set 50 years ago, but Tokyo's new leader said Tuesday he stands behind the pact. Prime Minister Naoto Kan said he sees the arrangement as a crucial means of maintaining the balance of power in Asia, where the economic and military rise of China is looming large, and vowed to stand behind it despite recent disputes with Washington. "Keeping our alliance with the United States contributes to peace in the region," Kan said in a televised question-and-answer session with other party leaders. "Stability helps the U.S.-Japan relationship, and that between China and Japan and, in turn, China and the United States." The U.S.-Japan alliance, formalized over violent protests in 1960, provides for the defense of Japan while assuring the U.S. has regional bases that serve as a significant deterrent to hostilities over the Korean Peninsula or Taiwan. Under the pact, promulgated 50 years ago Wednesday, nearly 50,000 American troops are deployed throughout Japan. The U.S. forces include a key naval base south of Tokyo where the only permanently forward-deployed aircraft carrier has its home port; Kadena Air Base, which is one of the largest in Asia; and more than 10,000 U.S. Marines on the southern island of Okinawa. The large U.S. presence over the past five decades has allowed Japan to keep its own defense spending low, to about 1 percent of its GDP, and focus its spending elsewhere — a factor that helped it rebuild after World War II to become the world's second-largest economy. "Even though there are some small problems here and there, in the bigger sense the relationship remains strong," said Jun Iio, a professor at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. "Very few people think that it is actually necessary to make major changes in the alliance." But while the alliance is one of the strongest Washington has anywhere in the world, it has come under intense pressure lately over a plan to make sweeping reforms that would pull back roughly 8,600 Marines from Okinawa to the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam. The move was conceived in response to opposition on Okinawa to the large U.S. military presence there — more than half of the U.S. troops in Japan are on Okinawa, which was one of the bloodiest battlefields of World War II. Though welcomed by many at first, the relocation plan has led to renewed Okinawan protests over the U.S. insistence it cannot be carried out unless a new base is built on Okinawa to replace one that has been set for closing for more than a decade. A widening rift between Washington and Tokyo over the future of the Futenma Marine Corps Air Station was a major factor in the resignation of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama earlier this month. It could well plague Kan as well. Kan has vowed to build a replacement facility on Okinawa, as the U.S. demanded, but details are undecided. Implementing the agreement would need the support of the local governor, who has expressed opposition to it. Kan was scheduled to visit Okinawa on Wednesday for ceremonies marking the end of the 1945 battle there that hastened Japan's surrender. Recent tension on the Korean peninsula and China's growing military assertiveness have undoubtedly driven home the importance of the U.S. security pact with Japanese leaders. Before he stepped down, Hatoyama suggested that the March sinking of a South Korean warship, allegedly by a North Korean torpedo, contributed to his decision keep Futenma on Okinawa — reversing a campaign pledge to move it off the island. Tokyo was alarmed in April when a Chinese helicopter came within 300 feet (90 meters) of a Japanese military monitoring vessel in the vicinity of a Chinese naval exercise. That same month, Chinese ships were also spotted in international waters off Okinawa. Still, the Okinawa problem underscores an increasingly skeptical stance among some Japanese leaders toward the role of the security alliance. Though the pact was strongly supported by the staunchly pro-U.S. conservative party that ruled Japan for most of the past 60 years, the newly empowered Democratic Party of Japan, which swept to office last year, have taken a more nuanced approach, saying that while close security ties with Washington remain crucial Japan needs to improve its relations with its Asian neighbors, particularly China. On Monday, Kan said he will reassure Obama when they meet at a summit this weekend that Japan-U.S. ties continue to be "the cornerstone" of Japan's diplomacy. But he added that "I want to view this relationship from a broader point of view," and stressed Japan must not forget the importance of developing its Asian relationships.

**Japanese political changes mean nothing—the new party leaders are mired in the status quo**
**Harris, ’10**
[Tobias Harris, Doctoral student in political science @ The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Japan-U.S. Relations Could Get Bumpy,” July 16th 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/07/16/a-fragile-alliance.html]]</span>]
For a brief moment, Naoto Kan looked like the anchor who could end Japan’s drift. Where his predecessor, Yukio Hatoyama, was a patrician dogged by corruption scandals and perceived as incapable of leading his own government, Kan came into the premiership stressing his own middle-class background. He pledged to recommit the governing Democratic Party of Japan to its ambitious agenda: reversing the country’s long decline by reforming its bureaucracy and social safety net while jump-starting the economy. Moreover, his commitment to replace an aging U.S. air base on Okinawa signaled a possible end to a dispute that had soured relations with Washington and led to Hatoyama’s resignation. A mere month later, Japan is once again mired in political confusion. In July the DPJ fell well short of a majority in the upper-house elections. It will now have to find either permanent coalition partners or, failing that, parties willing to cooperate on an issue-by-issue basis. Kan has survived his party’s defeat but faces a party leadership election in September that looks certain to be contentious. The result is that the DPJ government will have little choice but to moderate its goals. Accordingly, for U.S. policymakers interested in strengthening the relationship often described as “the cornerstone of peace and security” in East Asia, Japan’s domestic political environment will continue to serve as an obstacle. For the foreseeable future, no government will be in a position to advance major new initiatives, especially those pertaining to Japan’s security policy. And the sad reality is that even if the DPJ had won a convincing victory, Washington’s interest in a more active security partnership—in which Japan would spend more on its armed forces, participate more in overseas operations, and perhaps even revise or reinterpret its Constitution to permit self-defense within the alliance—would continue to face serious obstacles. As the government’s fiscal situation worsens, it becomes less and less likely that Tokyo will take up an ambitious security policy agenda. Fixing the government’s finances is a key step to addressing the other pocketbook issues with which voters are concerned. It is unlikely that a government implementing controversial budget cuts and tax increases would also take up the contentious question of how it should contribute to the defense of Japan and security in East and Central Asia. Its fear would be that the public would punish leaders perceived as focused on problems far from Japanese shores as it implements policies that hurt Japanese households. Moreover, for a cash-strapped government, the status quo, in which Japan limits its defense spending while subsidizing U.S. bases in Japan, continues to suit Japan’s interests. The logic of the Yoshida doctrine—which was formulated during the early postwar period, and which called for low defense spending combined with an alliance founded on U.S. bases in Japan—remains relevant today: Japanese leaders once saw the doctrine as the key to postwar economic development, and now the same policies provide resources for shoring up Japan’s social safety net and halting economic decline. The irony, then, is that despite the DPJ’s desire for a more equal relationship with the United States, the political and economic logic of austerity suggests that Japan will likely grow even more dependent on the U.S. for its security, with the difference being that the relationship will be more fragile. For Japan, every U.S. initiative toward China will be scrutinized for signs that the U.S. is abandoning Japan in the region. Similarly, for Washington, every initiative to deepen cooperation within East Asia that excludes the U.S. will be questioned and may prompt grumbling about Japanese free-riding. In other words, these are the makings of a tumultuous decade for the alliance. What can Washington do to minimize the friction? To a certain extent, the Obama administration has already taken several steps in the right direction. Unlike its predecessor, the current administration is less wedded to Japanese military contributions and gladly accepted a sizable Japanese financial contribution to the reconstruction of Afghanistan. When not feuding over Okinawa, the administration has made clear that it wants to work with Tokyo in areas like climate change. But the U.S. needs to be patient—especially on Okinawa. It needs to accept that in the months and years to come, anything beyond a limited military alliance focused on the defense of Japan is a nonstarter for Japan’s beleaguered politicians.


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Japan Marines Affirmative-GDS-GDS - 1AC - Alliance Advantage - Internals]]GDS - Japan 1AC - Alliance Advantage**</span>== 

**Contention 2—The Alliance**

**The Futenma issue is the test case over the equality of the alliance—Officials in the White House are blinded by the situations’ potential**
**Van Wolferen, Professor @ U Amsterdam, ’10**
[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]</span>] AP
Another crucial subject, a potential hindrance on the path to Minshuto’s success, does not receive the close media attention it deserves. The U.S.-Japan relationship was something that practically everyone took for granted. The problem has been that Washington has not treated Japan as a fully independent country. This situation has already been fundamentally changed by the Hatoyama cabinet. Merely by having opened the subject of inequality for discussion means that things can never be the same again. But the Obama administration is apparently not ready for a non-Jiminto government, which was made poignantly clear by the stern messages of Hillary Clinton just before the election and those of Robert Gates soon after it. The matter of moving an American Marine base in Okinawa is apparently being turned into a test case to see whether the new government understands who is boss. Many governments, including Washington, have long wished for Japan to take a more active role on the world stage. Its economic might changed the fate of industries in the United States and Europe, but from a geopolitical point of view, and in diplomacy, it was barely visible. The rest of the world got used to what was early on labeled as an ‘economic giant but political dwarf’. And now, when the new government says that this undesirable imbalance must change, Americans can only whine about military base arrangements different from what they want. The two cases of the public prosecutor relentlessly pursuing supposed lawbreaking by Ozawa and American insistence on Japan implementing what Washington had earlier forced the Jiminto to agree to in 2006 have something in common. They share the lack of a general sense of proportion. A stranger to Japan, just reading big newspaper headlines between December and February on a visit, would get the impression that Ozawa was trying to evade something like a murder conviction. Any financial misreporting by Ozawa’s assistants, a misdemeanor that in other democracies would be quietly investigated, does not remotely have the weight warranting the pillory of Ozawa we have just witnessed. And considering that the public prosecutor had so little to go on that he was forced to dismiss the case against Ozawa himself, we can only conclude that things have been crazily out of proportion. That such a relatively small thing could be the source of speculation about an end to the first Minshuto cabinet, and be the basis of daily front page reporting of mainly invented public opinion about the need for Ozawa to resign, like the fever chart of a hospital patient, would make strangers unacquainted with Japanese ways wonder about the sanity of political life here. I just read an editorial in one of the major newspapers that makes the point that while no evidence could be found, this does not mean that Ozawa is innocent. It is a statement that indicates a state of hysteria among some editors, giving the impression that it has become a personal vendetta for them. In the Futenma base case we see a new American presidency entirely missing the significance of what is happening in Japan. Obama and his advisers risk undermining new possibilities for creating a stable new cooperative relationship. Over what? Over something that ought to be minuscule in their global strategic vision. We learn from this that the Obama administration does not have its act together with respect to the revamped diplomatic attitude toward the world it announced when taking over from George W. Bush. It also proves that the American military has taken over far more American foreign policy than the details that relate to the countries it occupies. But considering that almost all of the top American officials dealing with Japan are ‘alumni’ of the Pentagon, this lack of a sense of proportion, this tunnel vision, should not surprise us. When you can upset something very big with something that in neutral eyes can only be judged to be pretty small you have extraordinary power. We need to contemplate the vagaries of power when we contemplate the story of today’s Japan. It has undergone the biggest power-shift since the 1950s, and Minshutohas already changed some things beyond a point where they can go back to what they were. But that does not mean that its power has been consolidated. Its strength will be tested again and again. An untimely departure of the Hatoyama cabinet would be very unfortunate. With the Jiminto in charge, an annual change of prime minister hardly mattered. But a return to the ‘musical chairs’ method of change would be disastrous for Japan’s political future. The consolidation ofMinshuto power will, of course, require dealing with the problem of the misplaced priorities of the public prosecutor, and of journalists who feed on leaks from the prosecutor's office like mad dogs. When Ozawa first became the target of investigations last spring, which forced him to resign as Minshuto president, foregoing the chance to become prime minister, several Diet members were quoted as saying that if the prosecutor’s office “would apply the same standards to all of us”, the Diet would be as good as empty. To be sure, the public prosecutor theoretically would have had the power in Jiminto days of emptying, say, half the Diet. But you can imagine that this power would not last beyond the first move of such idiotic action, because everyone in Japan, including the newspapers would conclude that the public prosecutor had gone mad. This thought experiment demonstrates an important quality of power: it is not absolute. Power is a rather elusive thing; hard to catch conceptually in a concrete way. It has no substance that relates in any way to the laws of Newtonian physics. You cannot measure it, count it, or express it in numbers. The attempts of some specialists in political science to quantify power fail miserably. Power is in essence different from influence, which can be measured. It derives its nature to a large extent through what it is in the eyes of the recipient, the person or group to which it is directed (and is in this way somewhat comparable to love). Take an example from recent history. You will remember what happened to the power of the Soviet Union just before the end of the Cold War. A huge power system existed, which was believed to be unshakeable. It had defined the nature of our post-World-War-II geopolitics. Then something relatively small triggered events that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In no time in 1989 the great power emanating from Moscow that kept populations in Eastern Europe in thrall was gone. It vanished in less than a week. Why? Because it rested on the psychology of fear. Fear of Soviet tanks. And that disappeared suddenly because Gorbachev demonstrated that he had meant what he said about not using violence to stop developments. What we have just witnessed in Japan, and will probably witness again, is a power struggle. On one side, reformist politicians eager to implement true reform of the structure of the Japanese power system, and on the other venerable career officials who believe that the established order is something sacred. But the power of these career officials will melt like ice and snow when editorial writers and television commentators warm up to the exciting political possibilities that have opened up for Japan. Being human beings interested in public affairs, as well as Japanese with at least a residual sense of patriotism, such a switch of focus ought not be too difficult for them. With the U.S.-Japan relationship we have another very curious power relationship, whose problems could be solved in favor of Japan. The world’s two greatest industrial powers relate to each other in unique fashion; there is nothing comparable to it. Hatoyama’s critics who blame him for mishandling diplomacy vis-à-vis Washington overlook the fact that normal diplomacy is not possible in this case, because the United States does not truly recognize Japanese sovereignty—an indispensable condition for diplomacy. It has been taken as a matter of course that Japan would in the end always do what the United States wanted. The Hatoyama government must deal with unfinished post-World War II business that its Jiminto predecessors have never looked straight in the eye. People speak automatically about the United States and Japan as allies. But, again, we have a conceptual problem here. An alliance is a relationship entered into voluntarily by two or more independent states. When this supposed alliance began Japan had no choice in the matter. During the Occupation following World War II, Washington turned Japan into a protectorate, and has since continued to treat to Japan as such—while, more recently, urging Japan to participate in American military ventures in other countries. Virtual protectorate status has certainly had some great advantages. Japan’s very rapid growth as a trading power was much facilitated by its sheltering in the American strategic and diplomatic shadow. But, most importantly for Japan’s place in the world until recently was that the main things by which a state is recognized internationally were carried out by American proxy. In other words, Japan did not need to present itself to other countries with a strong government, capable of making fundamental political decisions. We only need to think this through to see the connection between Japan’s lack of a political steering wheel until now and its pathological dependence on the United States. I think that the foremost Minshuto politicians, and certainly Ozawa, are aware of the mutual dependence of these two factors. As long as the United States appeared to supply a substitute for genuine large-scale Japanese diplomacy and strategic arrangements, there was no urgent need for a Japanese government capable of supplying those. And as long as no formal government in Tokyo balked at Japan being treated as a protectorate Washington could afford to meet Japanese sensibilities with disdain, as it is doing now with respect to the Marines on Okinawa. It is therefore natural that by establishing a true political center the conditions that have kept this dependency relationship going are radically altered.

**And, the status quo alliance is politically unsustainable—failure to resolve the crisis over Marines will collapse all public support**
**Yamaguchi, ’10**
[Noboru Yamaguchi, Visiting Scholar @ The John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies of Harvard University, Senior Defense Attache @ The Embassy of Japan in the U.S., Commanding General of the Japan Ground Self Defense Force Aviation School, Deputy Director of the National Institute for Defense Studies, Vice Commandant of the JGDSF Research & Development Command, “Resignation in Washington Toward the Japan-US Alliance,” March 17th 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tokyofoundation.org/en/articles/2009/beware-resignation-in-washington-toward-the-japan-us-alliance]]</span>]
In this context, we must not forget the asymmetry in the Japan-US alliance. From the start, this has been a relationship in which Japan maintains only light military power and holds its military commitments abroad to the minimum. At the same time it provides bases for American troops, in exchange for which the United States guarantees its security. Because of this asymmetry, dissatisfaction with the other partner can easily mount on either side. The US military stands prepared to shed the blood of young Americans in the event of an emergency in Japan. Because it does not ask Japan to do the same, a sense of extreme imbalance exists on the American side with respect to the burdens to be borne in an emergency. On our side of the Pacific, Japan provides bases in exchange for the use of US military power as a deterrent. From the perspective of the Japanese people, however, what tends to stand out more prominently than the life-or-death benefits they would receive from American cooperation in an emergency that may or may not even occur is the peacetime cost of maintaining of the US bases, which are additionally a source of noise pollution, accidents, and scandals involving American soldiers. The problem of Futenma’s relocation is linked to this unbalanced nature of the bilateral alliance. The initial relocation plan offers a representative example of attempts to provide greater stability to the stationing of US forces in Japan by lightening the excessive burdens imposed on Okinawa, and hence to sustain the deterrent provided by the presence of the US military. If the Futenma issue cannot be resolved smoothly, a vicious circle working in the opposite direction could take hold. Not only would residents in the vicinity of the base fail to see a lightening of their load, but the deterrence provided by the United States could also be impaired. There is another major problem. This is that damage could be done to the efforts by both sides to lessen the alliance’s asymmetry, even if only to a limited extent. Over the past 20 years Tokyo and Washington have both worked hard to get Japan to shoulder greater responsibility for regional and global security and thereby move the alliance beyond one in which Japan merely makes bases available in exchange for help with its defense. As a result of this endeavor, Japan’s participation in international security cooperation has increased. Shortly after the 1990–91 Persian Gulf War, Japan dispatched minesweepers to the Gulf, and in recent years it has sent other units of the Self-Defense Forces to the Indian Ocean and Iraq and participated in international anti-piracy patrols off the coast of Somalia. One element of these efforts involved was the “reaffirmation of the Japan-US alliance” initiative led by Joseph Nye during his term as US assistant secretary of defense in the mid-1990s. Then, from 2004 to 2006, attention focused on the work to “transform the Japan-US alliance,” especially on plans to relocate the Futenma base and realign the US forces stationed in Japan. Among other key issues addressed were executing peacekeeping operations, extending humanitarian reconstruction assistance, and preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. Aiming for an Expanding Equilibrium. It is fair to say that the aim of these efforts was to correct the alliance’s distinctive asymmetry as far as possible and bring about an “expanding equilibrium.” In this light, we have now arrived at a new juncture with the birth of the Obama administration in the United States and the Hatoyama administration in Japan just as the revised security treaty has marked its fiftieth anniversary. This provides a fitting occasion for making the alliance deeper yet. When Jack Crouch, a former assistant to the US president, came to Japan in late January, he spoke of the opportunities that Japan and the United States were losing by wasting time on the Futenma issue. He said that the relocation needed to be guided to a soft landing so that discussions on improving the alliance for the future could be resumed as quickly as possible. Earlier I referred to the sense of resignation among some Americans concerned about the alliance. If their attitude prevails, there is the danger that people will opt in favor of the contracting-equilibrium option. That is, both sides could lower their expectations and scale back their responsibilities and obligations. In the background is the sense of disappointment felt by those Americans who over a period of many years devoted themselves to piloting the alliance toward an expanding equilibrium. If they have become dispirited, we Japanese must strive to regain their trust so that they resume their expanding-equilibrium activities. At the same time, we must make sure that there is no wavering on a fundamental but low-profile element of the Japan-US alliance. This involves securing deterrent power by placing the US forces stationed in Japan on a stable footing. If this is not done, Japan’s very existence as a state may be altered fundamentally.

**This ensures political disaster that will cripple the alliance and support for our broader bases in Japan—serve as the absolute key for our power projection**
**Ennis, ’10**
[Peter Ennis, Former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, Former Research Fellow @ Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, Long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, Founder of The Oriental Economist, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” June 18th 2010, Dispatch Japan, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html]]</span>]
The exchanges of the last week can’t be dismissed as unwarranted airing of diplomatic dirty laundry. By all accounts, the dispute between Washington and Tokyo surrounding the Marine Futenma base on Okinawa exposed some deep weaknesses in the common understanding, structure, and management of the alliance. Bader and Green are deeply committed to the notion that the US-Japan alliance is the key to stability in East Asia. They believe the Obama administration handled the Futenma dispute quite well. Clemons and Sneider are also dedicated to the alliance, but fear the Obama administration’s approach to Futenma has done much more harm than good. Understanding this disagreement is critical to ensuring the US-Japan alliance regains and remains on solid footing. ROOT OF DISPUTE: Though the arguments of Bader and Green are persuasive at points, I believe the critiques leveled by Clemons and Sneider are on the mark. The core of the problem is that much of Washington’s “Japan Hand” community, and the broader community of foreign policy “generalists,” did not appreciate or want to engage the scope and depth of change in Japan represented by the coming to power of the Democratic Party (DPJ). One of America’s preeminent experts on Japanese history and security policy, Kenneth Pyle of the University of Washington, recently wrote that the Futenma dispute reflected an inevitable yearning in Japan for “a new equilibrium for the alliance.” For decades, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP10/AP10_B_JapanRT.pdf|he wrote]]</span>, the alliance had essentially made Japan “a military satellite, some would even say a client state,” of the United States. This unnatural arrangement was finally giving way to pent up desires for greater “autonomy and self mastery.” The “degree of US domination in the relationship has been so extreme,” Pyle wrote, that “a recalibration of the alliance was bound to happen.” Rather than accepting the inevitable, and seeking to shape the changes in Japan to be consistent with alliance goals, the halls of power in Washington became filled with the disturbing sentiment that DPJ leaders were basically unwanted and unworthy interlopers in an otherwise cozy and fruitful bilateral arrangement. The “word” spread that the DPJ was somehow anti-Alliance, was tilting toward China, and was questioning the very cornerstone of the alliance—access to bases, in exchange for American defense of Japan. Diplomatic snubs -- big and small -- hit DPJ leaders from all sides, exacerbating an impression that Hatoyama and his party were unwilling or unable to manage the all-important American alliance. This may not have caused Hatoyama’s demise, but it certainly contributed. BEFORE THE BEGINNING: The problem was evident even before Hatoyama and the DPJ came to power, in September 2009. Toward the end of 2007, after the DPJ had won a huge victory in Upper House elections, legislation was about to expire authorizing the refueling of US and allied naval vessels in the Indian Ocean by Japan’s Maritime Self Defense Forces. The Diet initially adopted the legislation in the wake of 9-11 to aid anti-Taliban and anti-Al Qaeda operations in Afghanistan. In the wake of the US invasion of Iraq, which many leaders in the then-ruling Liberal Democratic Party and the DPJ privately opposed, support for the refueling operations waned. It was common knowledge that the refueling was almost entirely symbolic, with no real operational value. Moreover, even ardently pro-US DPJ legislators were upset by signs that some oil provided to American naval vessels had been utilized for operations around Iraq. Much like in Europe, the Japanese public deeply opposed the US invasion of Iraq, and even then-Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda from the traditional US ally, the LDP, barely kept quiet his lack of enthusiasm for continuing the refueling operations. But the Bush administration, backed by a surprisingly diverse group of American specialists on Japan, barely contained its contempt for the DPJ opposition, and put enormous pressure on Fukuda to force through the refueling authorization. One of the strongest critics of the DPJ at that time was Mike Green, who co-wrote an op-ed for Asahi Shimbun pressing for reauthorization. The co-writer was Kurt Campbell, who was then advising Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, and who is now the State Department’s chief Asia specialist. Support for the Indian Ocean refueling operations became a litmus test for support of the alliance, even though the DPJ’s and other opposition to reauthorization was deeply rooted in the same kind of anger over the Iraq war that both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama had repeatedly expressed. FUTENMA, ANOTHER LITMUS TEST: By the time the Obama administration took office in early 2009, the Futenma issue was brewing as another supposed litmus test of Japan’s loyalty and commitment to the alliance. Mr. Bader cites Hillary Clinton’s visit to Japan in February 2009, her first step on foreign soil as secretary of state, as a sign of the importance Obama attached to the alliance with Japan. He doesn’t mention that Secretary Clinton’s top agenda item was to sign papers giving the go-ahead for construction of a replacement facility on Okinawa for the Marine Futenma air station. At the time, it was a virtual certainty that the DPJ would oust the LDP in elections several months later, and the DPJ had made clear its desire to have a Futenma replacement facility built outside of Okinawa, perhaps even outside of Japan. Nevertheless, without even so much as a perfunctory review of Japan policy of the sort that is common when a new administration takes office, the Obama team pushed ahead for implementation of the Futenma replacement plan, paying no discernable heed to DPJ views. Prior to her departure, Bader brought Green in to brief Secretary Clinton on Japan. Green, who was a top foreign policy advisor to Republican presidential candidate John McCain in 2008, strongly supported the 2006 plan to build the Futenma replacement on Okinawa. Bader says that US Ambassador John Roos became the point man for US policy in Tokyo. But US policy on Futenma under Obama was set long before Roos was even nominated to be ambassador, much less took up his post in Japan. Bader argued that the Hatoyama government’s questioning of the 2006 Futenma agreement “came against a backdrop of questioning of all US bases in Japan.” But there is not one statement by a Hatoyama government official that proves this assertion. Hatoyama questioned Futenma, not any other US base in Japan. But Bader’s assertion is unfortunately all-too-typical of what became common place in Washington while Hatoyama was in office. Bader asserted that Defense Secretary Bob Gates was unfairly accused of adopting a "confrontational approach to Japan during his October 2009 trip to Tokyo, citing a "leak to Japanese reporters of his comments to Foreign Minister Okada. But Gates had stated in no uncertain terms that efforts to alter the 2006 Futenma agreement would, in Bader’s words, “damage the alliance.” The “leak” Bader cites was a common-place “read out” of the meeting to the Japanese press. Gates left no doubt in his public statements and other gestures about the inflexible nature of his message. American journalists reported Gates’s demeanor as unmistakable. More than any other event, Gates's uncharacteristically gruff and haughty performance during his October visit to Tokyo set the tone for the entire way the Obama administration dealt with the Hatoyama government. Bader claims the Administration did not reject Hatoyama’s proposal to talk about Futenma. Leaving aside some minor gestures of willingness to discuss burden reduction on Okinawa, the administration never budged from its fundamental, highly dubious insistence that the 2006 Futenma replacement plan was an absolutely critical, irreplaceable part of the overall US strategic posture in East Asia. He asserts that “the President always believed that US-Japan relations are much larger than a single base issue.” That simply doesn’t square with the Administration’s unrelenting stance that, in effect, any questioning of the need for a Futenma replacement facility on Okinawa amounted to disloyalty to the alliance. Administration spokesmen repeatedly grouped Futenma in with all other US facilities in Japan, including the giant Kadena US Air Force Base—home to the largest US air wing in the world, and the vital Yokosuka naval facility, home to the US 7th Fleet—the only US aircraft carrier group the US Navy home ports abroad. These two facilities are the absolute key to the US forward-deployed ability to project power in East Asia, along with the 8thArmy and related air and sea units in South Korea, and the huge air, Marine, and naval buildup underway on Guam. Given this vast array of indispensable US power projection capabilities in the region, it was perfectly reasonable to ask just why the Futenma replacement facility is so vital. The US is already redeploying 8,000 ground troops out of South Korea, has moved many units further south to make them into a more flexible regional force, and has turned over to South Korea operational control of its own armed forces. Yet the current structure of the Marine presence on Okinawa remained curiously beyond the realm of acceptable discussion, at the insistence of Obama administration officials. Throughout the entire discussion, the Administration has painfully been unable to answer a simple question: Just what indispensable contribution to deterrence in East Asia do the Marines on Okinawa make that they could not make if based elsewhere? The Marines are not indispensable quelling any potential North Korean assault on the South. ROK ground forces alone number more than the combined personnel of the US Army and US Marine Corps, worldwide. The main US role in a Korean Peninsula contingency would be air and naval, largely based out of Kadena and Yokosuka. The job of seizing North Korean ports to facilitate humanitarian relief operations in a crisis, or the job of locating and securing North Korean nuclear materials, could all be conducted by Marines brought into Japan for those purposes, utilizing prepositioned supplies and equipment located on bases agreed to by Tokyo. As it is, a good number of the US Marines nominally based on Okinawa for deterrence in East Asia are often deployed elsewhere, including Afghanistan. Nor are the Marines on Okinawa to somehow deter China, a job done most effectively, once again, by the US air and naval forces based at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively. Are the US Marines vital to stability in East Asia? Absolutely. But nowhere is it written in strategic stone that they have to be based on Okinawa. The need for the Henoko project to replace Futenma largely boils down to one factor: The Marines want to introduce to Okinawa in the coming years the V-22 Osprey, a tiltrotor aircraft capable of both vertical and conventional takeoffs and landings. Why is a new runway needed at Henoko, designated site for the Futenma replacement facility, if the Osprey has vertical capability? Because the aircraft is notoriously unreliable, and the Marines say they need a runway in the event the shift from turboprop to helicopter capability fails. Ironically, the State Department’s Kurt Campbell, who fought so hard for the Futenma project in recent months, was strongly opposed to further development of the Osprey while he worked at the Pentagon over a decade ago. Beyond the Osprey requirements, the Marines also defend their status on Okinawa because of the heavy funding provided by Japan as base support. All things being equal, Okinawa is a highly advantageous location for the US Marines to be based. But all things are not equal, given that 20% of the entirety of Okinawa island’s land mass is taken up by US military facilities. The heavy concentration on Okinawa of US Forces in Japan is a political disaster just waiting to happen. Anyone truly interested in the political sustainability of vital US air and naval bases in Japan should be worried about the pent-up animosity all-too-evident on Okinawa. Indeed, while American officials rightly point to high levels of public support in Japan for the Japan-US alliance, they are less apt to point to the large majority of Japanese—and not just Okinawa residents—who oppose construction of a Futenma replacement facility on the island. Mike Green in his CSIS memorandum argues that Hatoyama gratuitously raised expectations among Okinawans that the Futenma replacement facility might not be built, immensely complicating potential implementation of the bilateral accord announced on May 28. Actually, all Hatoyama did was give voice to resentments that have long been simmering on Okinawa. Bader and others have argued that the current tensions on the Korean Peninsula, and recent incidents of Chinese helicopter harassment of Japanese naval vessels, served to push the Hatoyama government to finally agree to construction of a Futenma replacement facility at Henoko. But Japanese officials close to Hatoyama deny this, and US officials do not provide any evidence to support their assertion. Indeed, Hatoyama from his first days in office made sure to align his government with that of South Korea. Prior to a trilateral summit of the leaders of Japan, South Korea, and China in Beijing last October, Hatoyama first visited Seoul. His intention was to balance a visit to Pyongyang just days before by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao. The DPJ did not need to be “educated” on the dangers posed by North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, nor by China’s territorial designs on natural gas reserves in the East China Sea. MOVING FORWARD: So where do things stand now? Bader insists that the DPJ has matured in its understanding of security issues, thereby placing the Alliance of a stronger footing. In reality, the danger is very real that US officials will badly misread the national sentiments in Japan. As it is, many top DPJ leaders feel they had their collective arms twisted to accept the 2006 Futenma plan, and the experience has left a bitter taste. There is anger in Japan, of course, over the haphazard, slipshod fashion with which Hatoyama managed the Futenma issue. But there is intense awareness of the rumors, innuendo, faulty accusations, and dodgy mistreatment from Washington that further sullied Hatoyama’s stature. For now, Prime Minister Naoto Kan is saying he will back the Futenma replacement plan, but that is largely to keep the Obama administration at bay. There is little support inside the DPJ for spending any political capital on forcing the Futenma plan on to Okinawans. The Kan government, if anything, is somewhat more liberal on security issues than was Hatoyama. Given the political calendar in Tokyo, it will be very difficult to meet the August deadline for finalizing technical details for the planned Henoko facility. Upper House elections will take place in late July, followed by a DPJ presidential contest in September, and later by a critical vote for governor of Okinawa. Without the governor’s support, Kan could be forced to push the plan through with a “special measures law.” Mike Green acknowledges that such high stakes political drama could cause the DPJ to split. That raises the question of whether the US would use its weight to push aside yet another prime minister for the sake of the Henoko project. That’s not a pretty picture. It’s not too late for the US and Japan to turn the Futenma controversy into a win-win situation, but that would require US willingness to discuss significant restructuring of the Marine presence on Okinawa, beyond what is already planned. The first, interim step would be a sincere effort by the US to significantly relocate Marine and Air Force training exercises to different parts of Japan. Rather than spending political capital on promoting the wildly unpopular Henoko plan, Kan would be better off pressing governors in other prefectures to accept more US military personnel for basing and training purposes. Beyond that, the US and Japan should lock in a firm bilateral understanding on the vital need for a continued, long-term US air and naval presence at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively. Japan should be fully part of US regional force structure planning for East Asia, looking at opportunities for joint basing of US and SDF forces, and for ways in which expanded Japanese operational capabilities could best complement those of US forces and alliance goals. Seen in that context, the Futenma issue becomes more of a manageable irritant than a perilous fault line that threatens to shake the alliance to its core. The Obama administration shows no signs of seeing the issue this way, however, which unfortunately sets the stage down the road for renewed tensions between Washington and Tokyo.

**Even if the alliance doesn’t formally collapse—the Futenma controversy will prevent focus on regional security issues**
**Klingner, ’09**
[Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia @ The Heritage Foundation’s Asian Studies Center, Former Chief of CIA’s Korea Branch, “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment,” December 16th 2009,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/12/US-Should-Stay-Firm-on-Implementation-of-Okinawa-Force-Realignment#_ftn1]]</span>] AP
The Futenma controversy has caused the Obama and Hatoyama administrations' relationship to get off on the wrong foot. Frustration, suspicion, and anger are increasing in both capitals, threatening to create a crisis of confidence. The FRF controversy has, in the words of one U.S. official, "sucked the air out of the room" by redirecting alliance attention away from strategically important regional and global security issues. The Futenma dispute has already harmed the bilateral alliance. The extent of the damage will depend on the responses of both countries. The alliance is not yet in crisis, but if the situation is mishandled, the alliance could be headed for one. The U.S. and Japan need to keep in mind that the alliance is critically important for both countries and that the contentious issues are only one part of the broader relationship. Washington and Tokyo need to work together to reduce the current tension level and to refocus on transforming the alliance to address security challenges.

**The plan is critical to rally support for the alliance and the rest of our troops stationed in Japan—It’s key to Asian stability.**
**Barkdoll, ’06**
[Timothy Barkdoll, Commander in the U.S. Navy & Masters of Strategic Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan,” March 15th 2006, USAWC Strategy Research Project, U.S. Army War College]
The security alliance has served as the cornerstone of U.S.-Japan diplomatic relations for over five decades and the strategic location of U.S. forces in Japan is critical to protecting shared economic, diplomatic, and political interests in the Asia-Pacific region. Therefore, it is in the best interest of the United States and Japan to engage in the reconfiguration of the alliance to produce a more robust, flexible, and symmetric bilateral security arrangement that is capable of securing common national interests well into the 21st Century. Recent proposals for alliance transformation, realignment of U.S. forces, and Japanese constitutional revision indicate that the United States and Japan have taken a significant leap towards securing that future. Application of the following recommendations is required to realize the successful transformation of the alliance. Implement SCC-Proposed Transformational Changes The U.S.-Japan security alliance needs to be reconfigured so that the bilateral partners participate in a more symmetric relationship. The end product of the transformation is a fully functioning alliance in which each nation assumes equal roles and balanced distribution of responsibilities in pursuit of shared national strategic interests. As new and complex security threats emerge at an ever increasing rate, the United States, Japan, and the alliance can no 22 longer afford to rely on incremental growth spurred by the latest crisis. The Japanese government currently lacks the policy mechanisms needed to execute timely and effective security cooperation with the U.S. in response to the rapidly evolving threat environment. Wholesale implementation of the proposed transformation, U.S. force structure realignments, and Japanese constitutional revision is critical in determining the future relevance of the alliance. The key to a stronger alliance is the successful execution of the transformation as proposed by the SCC. A successful transformation depends on a more robust Japanese military posture, implementation of flexible Japanese policy mechanisms to facilitate a more reliable security cooperation with the U.S., and an elevated Japanese presence in Asia-Pacific and globally. Required changes to Japan’s military posture and legislative procedures necessitate constitutional revision meeting the approval of Japan’s popular vote. Unfortunately, there is a decreasing tolerance among the Japanese people for the inconveniences associated with U.S. military presence.136 The proposed realignment of U.S. forces in Japan is intended to ease the burden of host nation support on the Japanese public and provide Tokyo the public support platform to seek constitutional revision. Following the October 2005 SCC conference, Secretary of State Donald Rumsfeld summarized the U.S. perspective on these issues: Japan has the second largest economy on the face of the Earth. The people of Japan benefit greatly from the international system. Clearly Japan has an interest in the success of the international system. With an interest in the success of that system which benefits the Japanese people, it seems to me it is appropriate for Japan to find ways in the 21st Century that they can contribute to making the system successful.137 Rally Japanese Public Support Rallying Japanese public support for a more capable and proactive SDF, constitutional revision, and continued support for U.S. forces in Japan is critical to the future of the alliance. As the intolerance for inconveniences associated with host nation support has gained significant momentum in the national political arena, it is increasingly difficult for Japanese politicians to convince their constituents that they sacrifice for the benefit of Japan’s national security. 138 Therefore, it is imperative that the bilateral partners continue to work together to educate the Japanese people, especially in the cities and prefectures that host U.S. bases, that there exists an important interdependence between the alliance, the U.S. military presence in Japan, and Japan’s national interests. The message to the Japanese people must emphasize that the proposed changes and military operations are necessary for Japan’s national security and are not being considered to simply acquiesce bilateral security interests of the United States. The 23 perspective of the argument used is critical.139 For its part, as Japan struggles with remnants of its pacifist culture, antimilitarism, and growing public discontent for support of U.S. forces, the United States must respect and formally acknowledge that reexamination of Article 9 and ratification of a new constitution is a domestic issue to be decided exclusively by the people of Japan. Public support is sometimes best obtained when rhetoric is supported by real action. Proposed U.S. force structure realignment should help alleviate some Japanese concerns for noise, pollution, safety, and an expanding U.S. military footprint. However, Okinawa, as it has been since 1995, will continue to be the epicenter of domestic discontent over support provided to U.S. forces. The transfer of 7,000 Marines to Guam, further consolidation of the remaining forces, shared use of U.S. military installations with the SDF, and the return of substantial land tracts to Japanese sovereignty will do little to alleviate Okinawa’s opposition to the proposed Futenma resolution. Since the October 2005 SCC Futenma relocation plan includes the reclamation of a portion of Oura Bay, a contentious issue in the original proposal, tensions will remain high in the Okinawa prefecture. Balancing Okinawan desires with operational capabilities will prove to be a difficult task but one of critical importance considering the deterrence, crisis response, regional stability, and international security provided for by the U.S. forces forward deployed to Okinawa. Conclusion The stability of the Asia-Pacific region is of critical importance to the national interests of both Japan and the United States. This stability is now challenged by new threats associated with North Korea, Taiwan, and China. The U.S.-Japan security alliance has evolved as the cornerstone of regional stability and remains the best mechanism by which the world’s two leading economies can pursue overlapping national interests. Recently, the U.S. and Japanese governments have made remarkable progress toward reconfiguring the alliance. However, the materialization of a New Japan, one that assumes a more prominent role in its self-defense, regional stability, and global influence, along with full implementation of the transformational changes for the alliance, requires mustering popular support for an unprecedented revision of Japan’s constitution and, more specifically, Article 9. The future of the alliance will depend upon the popular vote of the Japanese people reflecting their view of how critical the Japan-U.S. security alliance is to securing Japan’s national interests. Kazuyoshi Umemoto, the Deputy Director General in the Japanese Foreign Ministry’s North American Affairs Bureau, astutely observed that “[t]he deterrence and capabilities of the 24 alliance are not measured solely by the number of U.S. forces stationed in Japan, but by the combination of political will, local support, and capability of working closely together.”140 Japan and the United States have demonstrated the political will and an unprecedented capability to work closely together. The future strength of the alliance will therefore depend on local Japanese support for the alliance and constitutional revision—with Okinawa presenting the most significant challenge in that pursuit.

**The U.S. should scale back the marine presence on Okinawa to just the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit—That’s necessary to prevent a backlash against all of our bases in Japan**
**O’Hanlon, ’01**
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” March/April 2001, Foreign Affairs, Lexis] AP
The United States keeps nearly 20,000 marines on Okinawa. These troops are an important part of the 100,000 U.S. military personnel based or deployed in the western Pacific region. In light of ongoing security concerns in the Taiwan Strait and on the Korean Peninsula, the Clinton administration felt it important to establish a floor below which U.S. military strength in the area would not drop. This goal was accomplished by the Pentagon's 1995 Nye report -- designed to articulate post -- Cold War U.S. military strategy for the Asia-Pacific -- which found that maintaining 100,000 service members in the region was an important symbol of sustained U.S. commitment. But six years later, that number needs rethinking. About half of the marines on Okinawa are deployed there for several months. That makes Okinawa by far the largest regular Marine Corps commitment -- in fact, forces there at any given time usually exceed all other worldwide Marine Corps deployments combined. Since the preparation and conduct of these missions is at the heart of the corps' raison d'etre, the marines rarely complain about such deployment. In addition, the marines' presence on Okinawa saves U.S. taxpayers money, since Japan foots much of the bill for operations and base needs. But the advantages of the deployment -- a diplomatic show of U.S. commitment to the Asia-Pacific, the lack of Marine Corps opposition, and its cost-effectiveness -- do not add up to a strategic rationale for keeping the marines there. And the Okinawa mission carries downsides as well that are not commonly recognized. The marines, with their expeditionary philosophy and capabilities, provide too valuable an asset to squander on a deployment that is not militarily or strategically essential. By default, putting them on Okinawa effectively consumes operational resources that could be used elsewhere: peace operations in the Balkans (to give the Army a break, for example), a humanitarian intervention or peace operation (should another genocide occur in Africa or elsewhere), exercises with foreign militaries, or responses to crises. In addition, the marines on Okinawa are not so much forward-deployed as they are marooned. Okinawa itself is not at risk, and Japanese forces have the capacity to defend it even if it were. Furthermore, the three amphibious ships based in Japan can transport only the 2,000 marines of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit, which patrols the region, to areas of actual threat elsewhere in the Pacific. The other 15,000 marines on Okinawa could not quickly deploy elsewhere with their equipment. In the event of a war, these troops could be flown to Korea without their heavy weaponry to help in noncombatant evacuations or similar missions. But they would have no advantage over infantry soldiers airlifted from the United States or local South Korean infantry troops. Keeping so many marines on Okinawa also places a major strain on U.S.-Japan relations, as George Washington University Professor Mike Mochizuki has argued and as an increasingly broad swath of the U.S. defense community now recognizes. In terms of acreage, three-quarters of U.S. bases in Japan are on Okinawa, taking up almost 20 percent of the land of an island that is small and, as home to more than a million people, densely populated even by Japanese standards. Changes to the base structure agreed to in the 1990s will reduce the acreage of the U.S. bases on Okinawa by only about a fifth, even if they are carried out in full. (Local resistance to moving the marines' Futenma air base has stymied efforts to enact much of the plan.) Meanwhile, marine flights continue in and out of Futenma -- located right in the middle of Ginowan City -- with the associated risks of accidents. Polls in recent years showed that more than 80 percent of all Japanese consider the Okinawa arrangement undesirable and unfair to local citizens. By trying to hold on to all of its bases in Japan, the United States risks causing a backlash and ultimately losing everything, including those facilities with the greatest military benefit for crises in Korea, the Taiwan Strait, or elsewhere -- notably, the Kadena Air Force base on Okinawa and U.S. Navy and Air Force facilities on Japan's main islands. Washington should therefore scale back the number of marines on Okinawa to about 5,000. The 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit should remain, as should enough forces to maintain storage and staging facilities for use in a crisis. But most other marines should go elsewhere in the region or return home, and most Marine Corps facilities and training ranges should be returned to Japanese use. Compensating steps should be taken, notably increased storage of U.S. military supplies on Okinawa or on ships in Japanese ports to facilitate rapid deployments in the region. Tokyo might well pay for the necessary equipment and many of the redeployment costs. Ideally, Japan would also increase its direct military contributions to the alliance. But major reductions in the marines on Okinawa need not await the normalization of Japanese security policy.

**__Scenario 1—East Asia__**

**A strong alliance key to create lasting stability in East Asia—bolsters our deterrent capabilities and allows for regional interdependence—only cooperation can address all major threats**
**Rapp, Former CFR Fellow @ Tokyo’s IIPS, ’04**
[William E. Rapp, Former Council on Foreign Relations—Hitachi International Affairs Fellow @ The Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Ph.D. in International Relations from Stanford University, “<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=367|Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance]]</span>,” January 1st 2004,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf]]</span>] AP
This monograph began by making the assertion that the alliance can and must become more than simply a narrow defense pact if both the United States and Japan want to be successful in shaping the security future of East Asia in ways that support peace, prosperity, and the growth of democratic and human values. In the next several decades, East Asia in particular will need the stability and positive character of Japan and the United States working in close concert. There is a distinct need for positive complementarities in the relationship. This power sharing could result in an alliance well suited to handle, in a positive manner, the most important challenge of the ﬁrst half of the 21st century―the character of the rise of China to superpower status. Tight coordination of policy and increased military capability will vastly increase the deterrence credibility of the alliance. As Diet Representative Eisei Ito noted, “The best way to deal with China is for Japan and the U.S. to be partners in the truest sense and consult closely and frankly over policy toward that country.” 207 Working together with one voice may be the best means of engaging China in the coming decades, preventing the opening of an exploitable rift, precluding the forceful reuniﬁcation of Taiwan and the mainland, and creating a path that both facilitates Chinese national interests and the peace and prosperity of the entire region. 208 North Korea and its quest for nuclear weapons represent a salient opportunity for the alliance to act in concert for the stability of Northeast Asia. No resolution of the current crisis on the Peninsula will be possible without both Japan and the United States working together within an agreed strategic framework. In addition, the powerful American and Japanese navies can help to guarantee the maintenance of the vital sea lines of communication (SLOC) running through Southeast and East Asia. 209 About 52 percent of all commercial sea cargo (59 percent of supertankers) transit this region amid thorny and unresolved issues of territorial boundaries, intrastate governance problems, and piracy. 210 For Japan, the routes are even more important―over 85 percent of the oil Japan imports sails through these sea lanes. 211 Piracy in South and Southeast Asian shipping lanes remains a major hazard, especially in Indonesian waters and the Straits of Malacca. 212 At present, Japan is committed to protect only SLOCs out to 1,000 miles from Osaka and Tokyo. 213 This arc of committed sea lane protection does not even extend all the way through the vital Bashi Channel to the southern end of Taiwan and the northern entrance to the South China Sea. Increasing this Japanese maritime reach through port calls, freedom of navigation cruises into the Indian Ocean, and combined exercises should be encouraged. 214 Aiding in the provision of unfettered SLOCs, which beneﬁt most of Southeast and East Asia, also may reassure Asia about the future role of the Japanese military, thus increasing Japan’s ability to comprehensively engage ASEAN. Working in concert, the two alliance partners could expand their tight cooperation into associated security realms within the region. WMD and ballistic missile nonproliferation, cyber-terrorism, and counternarcotics are just three examples of potentially fruitful venues for increased cooperation. Ideally, the alliance would continue to deepen into a multidimensional force for peace and prosperity in East Asia. The Proliferation Security Initiative hopefully is a harbinger of further expansion beyond the original scope of the alliance. Finally, the alliance can provide the continuity of peace and trust necessary for the growth of liberalism throughout the region. Success for the United States and Japan will increasingly be measured in terms of an increased community of vibrant, paciﬁc, free-market democracies in Asia. Making the two publics aware of the idealistic beneﬁts of the alliance will make more headway toward acceptance of a deepening partnership than simply focusing on the alliance’s role in power politics in the region. Creating the conditions for that liberal development and tamping down the anticipated frictions that will arise along the way can best be accomplished in tandem. In the long run, this liberalism backed by the concerted power of the United States and Japan will bring lasting stability to the region.

**Numerous factors make the breakout of conflict more likely than anywhere else—a strong alliance is key to check**
**Ikenberry & Mastanduno, Professors @ Princeton & Dartmouth, ’03**
[J. John Ikenberry, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton University, Michael Mastanduno, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences & Nelson A. Rockefeller Professor of Government @ Dartmouth College, “International Relations Theory and The Asia Pacific,” 2003, Pg. 25-27] AP
Many scholars and analysts argue that in the twenty-first century international instability is more likely in East Asia than in Western Europe. Whether one looks at variables favored by realists or liberals, East Asia appears more dangerous. The region is characterized by major shifts in the balance of power, skewed distributions of economic and political power within and between countries, political and cultural heterogeneity, growing but still relatively low levels of intraregional economic interdependence, anemic security institutionalization, and widespread territorial disputes that combine natural resource issues with postcolonial nationalism.' If security dilemma theory is applied to East Asia, the chance for spirals of tension in the area seems great, particularly in the absence of a U.S. military presence in the region. The theory states that, in an uncertain and anarchic international system, mistrust between two or more potential adversaries can lead each side to take precautionary and defensively motivated measures that are perceived as offensive threats. This can lead to countermeasures in kind, thus ratcheting up regional tensions, reducing security, and creating self-fulfilling prophecies about the danger of one's security environment. If we look at the variables that might fuel security dilemma dynamics, East Asia appears quite dangerous. From a standard realist perspective, not only could dramatic and unpredictable changes in the distribution of capabilities in East Asia increase un-certainty and mistrust, but the importance of sea-lanes and secure energy supplies to almost all regional actors could also encourage a destabilizing competition to develop power-projection capabilities on the seas and in the skies. Because they are perceived as offensive threats, power-projection forces are more likely to spark spirals of tension than weapons that can defend only a nation's homeland.' Perhaps even more important in East Asia than these more commonly considered variables are psychological factors (such as the historically based mistrust and animosity among regional actors) and political geography issues relating to the Taiwan question, which make even defensive weapons in the region appear threatening for Chinese security. One way to ameliorate security dilemmas and prevent spirals of tension is to have an outside arbiter play a policing role, lessening the perceived need for regional actors to begin destabilizing security competitions. For this reason, most scholars, regardless of theoretical persuasion, seem to agree with U.S. officials and local leaders that a major factor in containing potential tensions in East Asia is the continuing presence of the U.S. military, particularly in Japan. The historically based mistrust among the actors in Northeast Asia is so intense that not only is the maintenance of a U.S. presence in Japan critical, but the form the U.S.-Japan alliance takes also has potentially important implications for regional stability.

**Most likely scenario for nuclear escalation**
**Nye et al., Professor @ Harvard, 2K**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor Emeritus @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>]
Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at least a generation, but the prospects for conflict in Asia are far from remote. The region features some of the world’s largest and most modern armies, nuclear-armed major powers, and several nuclear-capable states. Hostilities that could directly involve the United States in a major conflict could occur at a moment’s notice on the Korean peninsula and in the Taiwan Strait. The Indian subcontinent is a major flashpoint. In each area, war has the potential of nuclear escalation. In addition, lingering turmoil in Indonesia, the world’s fourth-largest nation, threatens stability in Southeast Asia. The United States is tied to the region by a series of bilateral security alliances that remain the region’s de facto security architecture. In this promising but also potentially dangerous setting, the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship is more important than ever. With the world’s second-largest economy and a well equipped and competent military, and as our democratic ally, Japan remains the keystone of the U.S. involvement in Asia. The U.S.-Japan alliance is central to America’s global security strategy.

**That’s uniquely key—an equal alliance is key to create the perception of a stable alliance**
**Nye et al., 2K**
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] AP
If the United States can exercise leadership--that is to say, excellence without arrogance--in its relations with Japan, the two countries will be better able to realize the full potential for cooperation nurtured during the past 50 years. If the changes underway in Japan ultimately produce a stronger, more responsive political and economic system, the synergy in U.S.- Japan relations will enhance our abilities to play an engaged, mutually supportive, and fundamentally constructive role in regional and global arenas in the years to come. Because the stakes are so high in Asia, it is urgent that the United States and Japan develop a common perception and approach regarding their relationship in the 21st century. The potential for conflict in Asia is lowered dramatically by a visible and real U.S.- Japan defense relationship. The use of bases granted by Japan allows the U.S. to affect the security environment from the Pacific to the Persian Gulf. The revised Guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, the basis for joint defense planning, should be regarded as the floor--not the ceiling--for an expanded Japanese role in the transpacific alliance, and the uncertainties of the post-Cold War regional setting require a more dynamic approach to bilateral defense planning. Japan's prohibition against collective self-defense is a constraint on alliance cooperation. Lifting this prohibition would allow for closer and more efficient security cooperation. This is a decision that only the Japanese people can make. The United States has respected the domestic decisions that form the character of Japanese security policies and should continue to do so. But Washington must make clear that it welcomes a Japan that is willing to make a greater contribution and to become a more equal alliance partner. We see the special relationship between the United States and Great Britain as a model for the alliance.

**__Scenario Two is Naval Power__**

**Failure to check opposition over Futenma spills over—prevents us from stationing nuclear powered aircraft carriers in Japan**
**Auslin, Japanese Studies Director @ AEI, ’10**
[Michael Auslin, Director of Japanese Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, Former Senior Research Fellow @ The MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies @ Yale, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” June 16th 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://epaper.wsj-asia.com/WSJA/WSJA/2010/06/17/ArticleHtmls/17_06_2010_013_017.shtml]]</span>]
Here's the rub: The U.S. Department of Defense has made it clear that, unless the entire 2006 realignment plan goes forward, no individual pieces will be set in motion. And it all depends on moving the Marine helicopters out of Futenma, which has long been a source of political contention between Tokyo and Washington. The Japanese government, moreover, is committed to moving its surveillance planes to Atsugi, but that move probably won’t happen if the American carrier air wing stays put. Japanese military officials worry that this year’s protests in Okinawa could have spillover effects, inspiring protesters around Atsugi to demand a reduced American presence, and possibly even agitating against the government plan to move Japanese planes there. Moreover, Iwakuni’s mayor might reject the new burden of potentially hosting the George Washington’s air wing. That, in turn, would embolden antinuclear protesters in Yokosuka, the U.S. Navy’s main base, to step up their ongoing pressure to move the nuclear-powered George Washington, the Navy’s only permanently forward deployed aircraft carrier, out of Japanese waters. This worst-case scenario would be a series of simultaneous, grassroots movements against the U.S. military presence in Japan that could potentially put fatal stress on the bilateral security alliance and effectively isolate Japan militarily in the western Pacific. Given Mr. Hatoyama’s fate when he botched this issue, politicians now are more likely to respond to public demands or they will be replaced by those who do. The resulting political clash would either reaffirm tight ties with Washington or lead to endemic paralysis in Japan’s national security establishment. Given that the U.S. has permanently forward deployed ships and planes only in Japan, any scenario like the one sketched out above could significantly weaken U.S. capability to operate in the western Pacific, and thus call into question U.S. credibility as the underwriter of regional stability at a time when a crisis is brewing on the Korean peninsula and China continues to flex its naval and air muscle. Anyone concerned about that scenario, even if unlikely, realizes that the next half-decade of U.S.-Japan relations will have to go back to basics: rebuilding trust in the relationship, agreeing on a common set of objectives in Japan’s waters and throughout Northeast Asia, and strengthening a commitment to upholding the alliance’s military capabilities. The good news is that Japan’s bureaucrats and military leaders remain more committed than ever to revitalizing the alliance. Whether politicians on both sides of the Pacific are willing to follow them, however, is another matter. No one believes that Washington and Tokyo are about to end their half-century-old alliance over an airstrip on an island in the middle of the ocean. But no one imagined, either, that a carefully crafted, decade-long negotiating process would be so carelessly upended by short-term political calculations. Prime Minister Kan can’t afford to ignore the fissures opened by his predecessor and should work to heal them.

**And that crushes our ability to project naval power globally—Collapses our hegemony—Japan is uniquely key**
**Kazuhisa, ’99**
[Ogawa Kazuhisa, Analyst of International Politics and Military Security Issues, “Substantive Debate Needed on Defense Partnership,” 1999, Japan Quarterly, July—September, Volume 46, Number 3]
The truth cannot be more different from this Japanese belief. U.S. policy-makers have been fearing for decades that Japan will one day announce its intention to terminate the alliance. This is because Japan is the most valuable of America's 58 treaty-bound allies in two ways. First, the United States cannot maintain global preponderance without Japan. Second, in military terms, the alliance with Japan is the most symmetric of America's alliances. The first point is obvious from Japan's unique role as America's power projection platform. U.S. military bases in all other allied countries are forward bases for responding to specific regional threats. For instance, bases in the Republic of Korea (South Korea) are for deterring—and failing that, fighting—a war on the peninsula by deploying forces in response to military threats from North Korea. The immense bases in NATO Europe are also for meeting regional threats, as were those in the Philippines, In contrast. U.S. bases in Japan provide the bulk of support for the Seventh Fleet and the III Marine Expeditionary Force, whose area of responsibility stretches from Hawaii to the Cape of Good Hope—one half of the world! Such a power projection platform is vital for America's maintenance of a position from which it can claim global leadership. Japan meets and surpasses various conditions for a power-projection platform. One is industrial and technological development. Few allies are capable of repairing technology-intensive weapons of the U.S. armed forces. In particular, only Japan can repair the U.S. Navy's Aegis air defense system; it is the only ally deploying the system. Another is economic capacity. In the course of acting as the world's leader, the United States sometimes finds itself in a financial shortfall. The ability to provide billions of dollars on such occasions on short notice is certainly a condition for an ally to lie a power-projection platform. While not discussed often, the public's friendliness toward the United Suites is another important condition. From the U.S. perspective, the Japanese are exceptional on this count, even among allies. There is no anti-American nationalism to speak of; it is difficult to believe that the United States has actually dropped two atomic bombs on Japan. Even when the rape of a schoolgirl in Okinawa by U.S. servicemen in September 1995 inflamed anti-base passions, no Japanese stoned or torched military7 bases or any other American property. Hence, on these terms, Japan is equivalent to the continental United States. The loss of the Japanese archipelago would be as damaging to the security and prosperity of the American people as an invasion of the U.S. homeland. Americans would not have an opportunity to become aware of Japan's true worth, however, until and unless Japan terminates the alliance. The second point, that Japan's burden-sharing is more symmetric than any other U.S. ally, is related to Japan's significance as America's power-projection platform. When Japanese citizens hear the term "military contribution," they define it as the deployment of the Self-Defense Forces (Sl)F) into combat. Many are ashamed that Japan cannot participate in this way, whether as America's ally, as a member of a coalition authorized by the U.N. Security Council, or under LJ.N. command. Deploying the SDF abroad can be an important contribution to international peace. However, the Japanese government defines exercise of the right of collective defense, particularly die SDF s participation in what the government routinely characterizes as activities incorporating the use of force, as unconstitutional. Unless Japan lifts this ban through reinterpretation or formal amendment of the Constitution, it cannot, contribute SDF troops. In fact, neither Japan's Asian neighbors nor the United States itself desires amendment of the Japanese Constitution. They do not relish the prospect of Japanese military independence. The interested states thus expect Japan to make a military contribution other than deployment of the SDF Japan has been doing just that to an immense extent, even though few Japanese have noticed. Even leaving aside the financial contribution worth SI3 billion. Japan's military contribution to the U.N.-led effort to contain Iraq in 1990-1991 was second only to America's in both qualitative and quantitative terms. U.S. Department ot Defense specialists acknowledge this reality. Specifically, at least 80 percent of the fuel and ammunition used by the 560,000 U.S. troops in the Persian Gulf was shipped from facilities in Japan, and approximately 20 percent of U.S. combat power in the theater was deployed from Japan. How was this possible? First, the second and third largest U.S. military fuel storage facilities in the world are in Japan: Tsummi (5.7 million barrels) in the port of Yokohama and Sasebo (5.3 million barrels) in Kyushu. Several of the largest munitions depots of the U.S. armed forces are also in Japan. The Army's depot complex near Hiroshima alone can store 119,000 tons. Those of the Air Force, Navy and the Marine Corps are even larger; the Air Force's munitions facility at Kadena Air Base in Okinawa is the largest of its kind in the world. By comparison, the total munitions stockpile of the Japanese Self-Defense Forces is only 115.000 tons. In addition, combat units of nearly every kind deployed from Japan to the Persian Gulf. USS Blue Ridge, the flagship of the Seventh Fleet, directed all operations bv the Navy and the Marine Corps. USS Midway generated more sor- ties than any other aircraft carrier. Marine Corps aviation and ground units and Air Force units also deployed from Japan. In terms of the long tail of logistics and the teeth of combat power, the role of the U.S. military infrastructure in Japan exceeded even that of the British armed forces, which deployed almost 70,000 troops to the Persian Gulf. This is why military analysts regard Japan's contribution as second only to those of the United States, To say that the maintenance of such a power-projection platform costs money is a gross understatement. Japan is spending more than ¥5.1 trillion in the current fiscal year toward this cost. This expenditure breaks down as ¥640 billion in rent. Japanese labor and construction for U.S. military facilities and areas (which accounts for 70 percent of the costs associated with stationing U.S. troops in Japan), plus ¥4.9 trillion in Japanese defense expenditures, from which the Defense Facilities Administration Agency's expenditures for U.S. military facilities and areas worth Y460 billion should be subtracted. This means that the United States pays only for irreducibly military expenditures such as the payroll for U.S. military personnel. Including Japan's defense expenditures for maintaining the alliance may require an explanation. One example should suffice. At the full peacetime complement, the U.S. Air Force, Navy and the Marine Corps deploy more than 200 fighters and attack aircraft in Japan between them. Yet, not one is tasked with air defense. The security of U.S. military bases in Japan from airborne threats depends on the Air Self-Defense Forces umbrella over all of Japan. The Self-Defense Forces, which share this crowded archipelago with U.S. forces, have a force structure appropriate for a perimeter security force of America's power-projection platform. No country in the littorals of the Pacific and Indian Oceans even begins to approach Japan in meeting conditions for a power-projection platform. One year after Japan notifies the United States of its intention to terminate the alliance, the United States would lose leverage, and with it, most of its capability to project military power over half of the world. Shorn of power-projection capability, the United States would be hard-pressed to remain the world's sole superpower. Despite its colossal economy, diversified nuclear arsenal and qualitative advantage in conventional forces, the United States would be just one among several great powers. America's power differential with respect to China, Russia and other major powers would be much smaller. This has been generally acknowledged by U.S. government policy advisers in semiofficial meetings. Then, by way of reports, I convinced Japanese government leaders of the significance of the Americans' agreement.

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **And, Carrier-based deterrence maintains world peace—It prevents inevitable brushfires from becoming global conflagrations**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Johnson & Krulak, ’97**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Admiral Jay Johnson, Chief of Naval Operations, General Charles Krulak, Commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps, “Forward Presence is Essential to American Interests,” November 1st 1996, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.defense.gov/speeches/speech.aspx?speechid=870]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Also this morning, U.S. Navy amphibious assault ships carrying 4,400 combat-ready American Marines are forward deployed in the waters of the Mediterranean Sea and the Persian Gulf. At sea in the Mediterranean and in the Persian Gulf are aircraft carrier battle groups with 16,000 sailors and two air wings of combat-ready aircraft. Finally, in the Far East, the United States has permanently deployed a third aircraft carrier battle group and a third amphibious ready group. The vigilant forward presence of these forces is vital, but not always as visible to Americans as it is to the rest of the world. Their routine daily efforts don't always make the headlines, but they are vitally important to world peace and stability. Some argue that the forward presence these forces represent is no longer necessary. They argue that forces reacting from the United States are enough to maintain international stability. They further maintain that "brush fires," or outbreaks of regional instability, are insignificant or incidental at best, and they argue that America can no longer afford the forward presence of these forces on what amounts to a near-continuous basis. We would argue just the opposite. Forward-deployed U.S. forces, primarily naval expeditionary forces -- the Navy-Marine Corps team -- are vital to regional stability and to keeping these crises from escalating into full-scale wars. To those who argue that the United States can't afford to have this degree of vigilance anymore, we say: The United States can't afford not to. These brush fires, whether the result of long-standing ethnic tensions or resurgent nationalism in the wake of the Cold War, will only continue. The Cold War was an anomaly. Never again will we live in a bipolar world whose nuclear shadow suppressed nationalism and ethnic tensions. We have, in some respects, reverted back to the world our ancestors knew: a world in disorder. Somalia, Bosnia, Liberia, Haiti, Rwanda, Iraq and the Taiwan Straits are merely examples of the types of continuing crises we now face. Some might call this period an age of chaos. The United States and the world cannot afford to allow any crisis to escalate into threats to the United States' and the world's vital interests. While the skies are not dark with smoke from these brush fires, today's world demands a new approach. The concepts of choice must be selective and committed engagement, unencumbered global operations and prompt crisis resolution. There is no better way to maintain and enforce these concepts than with the forward presence of the U.S. Navy-Marine Corps team. There are four basic tenets to international security in today's world: prevention, deterrence, crisis resolution and war termination. The underlying assumption of these tenets is that the United States and its allies should not be forced into winning a war in an overwhelming (and expensive) fashion. Instead, it is much better -- and cheaper -- to resolve a crisis before it burns out of control. Prevent. The key to prevention is continuous presence in a region. This lets our friends know we have an interest and lets potential foes know that we're there to check any move. Both effects occur without any direct action taken. Although hard to measure, the psychological impact of naval expeditionary forces is undeniable. This regional presence underwrites political and economic stability. This is forward presence. Deter. Presence does not prevent every crisis. Some rogues are going to be tempted to strike no matter what the odds and will require active measures to be deterred. When crises reach this threshold, there is no substitute for sustained actual presence. Naval expeditionary forces can quickly take on the role of the very visible fist. Friends and potential enemies recognize naval expeditionary forces as capable of defending or destroying. This visible fist, free from diplomatic and territorial constraints, forms the bedrock of regional deterrence. For example, the mere presence of naval expeditionary forces deterred Chinese attempts to derail the democratic process in Taiwan and countered Iraqi saber-rattling toward Jordan. It's hard to quantify the cost savings of deterring a crisis before it requires our intervention. But the savings are real -- in dollars and often in blood and human misery. This is forward presence. Resolve. If a crisis can be neither prevented nor deterred, then prompt and decisive crisis resolution is imperative before the crisis threatens vital interests. U.S. naval expeditionary forces are a transoceanic key that finds and opens -- forcibly if necessary -- any gateway into a fiery world. This ability is equally expandable and retractable according to the situation. Perhaps most importantly, naval expeditionary forces don't need permission from foreign governments to be on scene and to take unilateral action in a crisis. This both unencumbers the force and takes the pressure off allies to host any outside forces. Over the past two years, for example, U.S. naval expeditionary forces simultaneously and unilaterally deployed to Liberia and to the Central African Republic (1,500 miles inland) to protect U.S. and international citizens. They also launched measured retaliatory Tomahawk strikes to constrain unacceptable Iraqi behavior, and conducted naval air and Tomahawk strikes, which brought the warring parties in Bosnia to the negotiating table. This is forward presence. Terminate. Each of the above tenets is worthy of the United States paying an annual peace insurance premium. Otherwise we and our allies risk paying the emotional, physical and financial costs of a full-blown conflagration that began as just another brush fire. If there is a war, naval expeditionary forces will be first to fight. They are inherently capable of enabling the follow-on forces from the United States for as long as it takes. And they will remain on-scene to enforce the settlement that ends the conflict. This is forward presence. The Iraqis, Central Africas, Somalias and Bosnias inevitably destabilize and erode world order and respect for the rule of law. Indeed, a failure to respond to them encourages future -- more serious -- crises. The United States must foster stability around the world, today and tomorrow. The peace insurance premium is a small price and is the cost of leadership. Who else is capable of this type of forward presence on a global basis? For the United States, maintaining a steady commitment to stability will be a challenge. But maintain it we must, or the price, literally and figuratively, will be much greater down the road. The example of fighting forest fires is precisely applicable. The philosophy is simple: prevention through living in the environment; deterrence through vigilance; and resolution through quick and selective engagement. Ninety-five percent of all forest fires are contained -- the direct result of the watchful presence of the local initial attack crews who attack flash points. As for the other 5 percent, once the window of opportunity for decisive early action is missed, firefighters must be brought in from outside the region, and it is exponentially more expensive. Sometimes there are casualties -- casualties that would not have been incurred had the fire been contained before it had the opportunity to flare. America's Navy-Marine Corps team is under way, ready and on-scene at trouble spots around the world. Forward presence makes it -- and will keep it -- the right force, tailor-made for these uncertain and sometimes fiery times.</span>
==<span style="font-size: 10pt;">GDS - Japan 1AC - China Advantage</span>== 

----


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**China is rising peacefully—stronger influence in East Asia is inevitable—attempting to contain it guarantees US gets entangled in conflict**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Bandow ’09** [Doug Bandow is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, 2/24/09 “Balancing Beijing” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/balancing-beijing-3021]]</span>, SM]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Yet the United States and Soviet Union spent most of the cold war sparring for influence in the Third World to little meaningful effect. Money was spent and lives were lost, but in the end it didn't much matter who was numero uno in Vientiane, Kinshasa, Luanda or Managua. It matters even less today. As my Cato colleague Ben Friedman puts it, "There is little that China can do in Africa to make it stronger or to damage U.S. interests." If Beijing wishes to invest heavily in places with little geopolitical heft, why should the United States object? Even more important, Washington needs to back away from any kind of arms race with the PRC. The latest Pentagon Joint Operating Environment 2008 ominously declared that while Beijing doesn't "emphasize the future strictly in military terms," the Chinese do calculate "that eventually their growing strength will allow them to dominate Asia and the Western Pacific." The annual Pentagon assessment of PRC military spending appears to show Beijing's conscious effort to build a force capable of deterring American intervention against China in East Asia. As a result, Aaron Friedberg, until recently Vice President Cheney's chief foreign-policy adviser, worries that the balance of power "is beginning to shift in way that, under the wrong set of circumstances, could increase the risk of miscalculation and conflict." Yet the question is, what balance of power? Beijing poses no threat to America's homeland or even Pacific possessions and will not do so for decades, if ever. The United States possesses a far stronger military to start-eleven carrier groups to none, for instance-spends five or more times as much as the PRC on defense (excluding the costs of Afghanistan and Iraq) and is allied with most important industrial states in Asia and Europe. There is no Chinese threat or potential threat to America. At issue is relative influence in East Asia and the security of Washington's friends in that region. Yet the PRC so far has been assertive rather than aggressive and those nations, particularly Japan and South Korea, could do much more individually and collectively for regional security. Washington should not hesitate to sell arms to friendly states, including Taiwan, despite Chinese protests, but should leave them with responsibility for their own defense. Of course, a policy of continued restraint by Beijing will make it far easier for the United States to back away. In any case, there is little that Washington can do, at least at acceptable cost, to maintain U.S. dominance along China's borders, as the PRC-whose economy already ranks number two or three, depending on the measure, in the world-continues to grow. Washington would have to devote an ever larger amount of resources to the military, in the midst of economic crisis, to ensure its ability to overcome far more limited Chinese capabilities. Even then, Beijing is unlikely to forever accept U.S. hegemony. Confrontation if not conflict would be likely. The better option would be to temper America's geopolitical pretensions and accept a more influential PRC in its own region. China will grow in power, irrespective of Washington's wishes. America's chief objective should be to ensure that this rise is peaceful, as Beijing has promised. U.S.-China diplomatic relations passed the thirty-year mark last fall. The relationship has survived great challenges and is likely to face even greater ones in the future. But despite inevitable differences between the two nations, much depends upon strengthening their ties. The twenty-first century will turn out far differently-and positively-if America and the PRC prove willing to accommodate each other's economic and geopolitical ambitions.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Status quo marine presence in Japan signals a strategy of Chinese containment—they are an unnecessary burden**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Mochizuki ’96** [Mike, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, 3-17-96 “Slow-Motion Crisis; China's Missiles Sent an Urgent Mes-sage: Our Asia Policy Needs Fixing,” The Washington Post]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> However, just because the symptoms will recede does not mean the underlying problem will go away. China, put down by the West for two centuries, is cognizant of its growing strength and intends to be recognized for it. It also has territorial disputes with many neighbors besides Taiwan, and a perception that the United States wants to box it in militarily and politically. Similar conditions -- between the established powers of Russia, Britain and France on one side, and a rising Germany on the other -- helped produce World War I. Under these circumstances, the trick is for the United States and allies, most notably Japan, to deter China -- while also reassuring Beijing that we are not picking a fight and that we recognize its rightful place at the table of great powers. Getting this policy right requires attention, creativity and some new ideas. China's action will at least have been well-timed if it gives Clinton and Hashimoto a strong sense of purpose about reinvigorating the alliance. Unfortunately, most members of the U.S. and Japanese foreign policy establishments would rather use the summit to endorse the status quo. They take it as gospel that the United States must maintain about 45,000 U.S. troops in Japan and 100,000 in Asia because otherwise Japan and the rest of the region might slip into angst and insecurity. Clinton's own Pentagon officials recently reaffirmed this conventional wisdom with a major strategic review. But there are risks to sticking with the status quo. Tension in the U.S.-Japan alliance, revealed so starkly on Okinawa last fall after U.S. servicemen raped a 12-year-old Japanese schoolgirl, has been developing ever since the end of the Cold War and could easily worsen. Japanese remain pro-American and in favor of the bilateral security relationship. But substantial and growing majorities believe that U.S. bases and military personnel in their country, essentially still at Cold War levels, should be reduced. True, the Japanese-American alliance weathered tough times in the past, surviving the Vietnam War and other major challenges. But in those days, the nearby Soviet threat helped the allies to say they were sorry and make up. Moreover, past crises often led to changes in the way the alliance worked -- and this one should too. At this point, reinvigorating the alliance could best be accomplished by changing the configuration of U.S. forces in Japan, including a reduction in the number of Marine combat units on Okinawa, while asking Japan to play a more forceful role in handling the fundamental future tasks of the alliance. The United States and Japan should distinguish between their vital interests and their important yet less-than-vital interests in Asia. Defense of the open oceans, sea lanes and existing U.S. allies -- Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Thailand -- are the chief causes worth fighting for. The United States and Japan should also be prepared to contest an unprovoked Chinese attack on Taiwan or the islands of the South China Sea. But all of these scenarios except war on the Korean peninsula would be addressed chiefly with air and naval forces, not Marines. As for war against North Korea, the chief U.S. responses would involve its ground and air forces already in South Korea, air and naval forces in Japan and reinforcements from the United States. Other potential disputes with China should not be addressed militarily. We should follow another Nixon maxim, announced in his speech on Guam in 1969, that the United States has no long-term interest in fighting land wars in Asia. By committing ourselves to what would be primarily a maritime defense strategy, we would deter China from attacking our fundamental interests in the region without reinforcing its two-century old sense of encirclement and subjugation. If China some day caused military trouble in Indochina or Mongolia or other parts of mainland Asia, Washington and Tokyo could establish collective defense accords with other countries in the region to prevent any further encroachments. But these are matters where hyper-vigilance now is unneeded, and is only likely to make things worse. Taking some Marine combat forces home would greatly lessen the strains on Japan's smallest prefecture, now host to nearly 30,000 of the 45,000 American troops in Japan. For example, at the summit Clinton might agree to bring home one or two battalions out of the five typically there, including several thousand troops. Since there are only enough amphibious ships in Sasebo, Japan, for one battalion to be transported, this decision would hardly affect our rapid-response capabilities in the region. Indeed, Clinton and Hashimoto could even improve those capabilities by basing one or more additional amphibious ships in Japan. (The Marines' remaining 35 or so amphibious ships are at present based in the continental United States.) Japan too should take on new responsibilities. While reaffirming its one-China policy, it should publicly and vocally reinforce the U.S. position that an unprovoked (or lightly provoked) Chinese attack on Taiwan would be grounds for extreme concern and joint action. In the military sphere, it should in the short term pass laws allowing it to provide substantial rear support to U.S. forces in times of crisis or war in the Asia-Pacific region. Those laws might be challenged in court, but Japanese politics today are healthy enough to handle whatever outcome this legal process might generate, including if necessary a national debate over modifying constitutional limits on Japan's military activities in wartime. In the longer term, Japan needs to become more of an equal military partner to the United States. Areas for possible collaboration include expanded roles in peace operations, joint naval patrols with the 7th Fleet, and improved integration of communications systems with U.S. ships and planes to permit rapid sharing of targeting data in the event of war. In these tense times in Asian politics, restructuring the U.S.-Japan alliance would send a properly-mixed message to China -- that the United States is generally uninterested in putting land forces up against China's borders, but that we and our allies will, if necessary, fight to defend our core interests in the region. And, by ensuring or even enhancing the Marines' ability to deploy quickly out of Okinawa, it would hardly give North Korea reason to cheer. Rather than simply forget this year's March madness in the Taiwan Straits, we should get our post-Cold War Asian security relationships in shape to reduce the chance of another crisis.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **The plan allows a peaceful transition to China’s rise—sends the perception of peaceful US intentions**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Bandow 10** [Doug Bandow is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan,, 5/25, “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845]]</span>, SM]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Washington should press the PRC to take two simple steps: renounce the use of force to resolve Taiwan's status and remove missiles now targeting the island. In return, Taiwan should indicate that it will not ally with any party or allow other powers to use bases against the PRC. The U.S. should explain that it has no intention of intervening militarily against China, maintaining a military alliance with Taiwan, or using military facilities on the island. Washington also should pull back other military units stationed nearby, such as the 3rd Marine Expeditionary Force on Okinawa. Demonstrating its pacific intent would enable the PRC to defuse proposals to revamp America's alliances with South Korea and Japan to deal with other contingencies — meaning China. Although Beijing's rise has been steady, its continued rise will be smoother if achieved in cooperation with its neighbors and without hostility from them or America. The PRC's own actions will be the most important factor in determining other nations' reactions. It is often said that Americans live in a dangerous world. We do. But shoe and underwear bombers do not match the threat posed by nation states armed with nuclear weapons, intercontinental ballistic missiles, carrier groups, and armored divisions. While the future is uncertain, it is difficult to imagine the U.S. at war with Russia, India, or any significant power other than China. Thankfully, conflict with the latter also remains unlikely. But the mere possibility of a future military confrontation reinforces the importance of the world's two most important nations working to defuse potential conflicts. Which means cooperating on North Korea and Taiwan. Doing so successfully would go a long way to make the 21st century one of peace</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **This strategy will inevitable fail—the US should offshore balance in East Asia in order to allow regional powers to create multilateral institutions—allows for engagement and peaceful Chinese rise**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Nye et al., ’07**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]</span>] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> As the United States considers the evolving structure of international relations in Asia in 2020, there are scenarios we should seek to avoid. In particular, with the rising power, influence, nationalism, and resource needs of Asia’s major powers, it is clear that a unipolar U.S. management of Asia is not attainable, and its pursuit could prove counterproductive to adjusting the U.S. role in the region to emerging realities. For some, a condominium between the United States and China seems the logical future structure for the region. However, as long as the United States and China have different value systems, and absent a clear understanding of our respective interests both regionally and globally, it is our view that such an accommodation overestimates the potential of U.S.-China relations. A condominium with China would put at risk the quality of relations with friends and allies across the region who are wary, if accepting, of China’s growing weight and value to the United States, in part as key to achieving strategic balance in the region. At the same time, however, a bipolar structure with only the United States and Japan facing China would be ineffective, because it would force other regional powers to choose between two competing poles. Some might side with the United States and Japan, but most regional powers would choose strict neutrality or align with China. Ultimately, this would weaken the powerful example of American and Japanese democracy and return the region to a Cold War or nineteenth century balance-of-power logic that does not favor stability in the region or contribute to China’s potential for positive change. Stability in East Asia will rest on the quality of U.S.-Japan-China relations, and even though the United States is closely allied with Japan, Washington should encourage good relations among all three. The best structure for Asia rests on sustained U.S. strength, commitment, and leadership in the region, combined with proactive participation in regional affairs by Asia’s other successful powers. An open structure in which Japan, India, Australia, Singapore, and others are leading by example, based on partnerships with the United States and shared democratic values, is the most effective way to realize an agenda for Asia that emphasizes free markets, continued prosperity based on the rule of law, and increasing political freedom. The United States and Japan should also seek to build relationships with countries such as Vietnam, which has a growing interest in being a part of Asia’s trading life, and New Zealand, which shares our values. All these efforts should be coupled with measures to expand areas of cooperation with China, while being candid with Beijing about areas of disagreement. Working within Asia in this manner, we believe, will be key to positively influencing the growth and direction of all of Asia, including China, thereby “getting Asia right.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **The plan is key to restructure the relationship with Japan—allows it to be more regionally engaged with China**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Ikenberry & Kupchan, ’10**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton, Charles A. Kupchan, Professor of International Affairs @ Georgetown, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “A New Japan, a New Asia,” January 21st 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html]]</span>] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> This week marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan alliance, but the Obama administration seems sincerely flummoxed as to whether to bemoan or commemorate the occasion. On the one hand, U.S. officials have reacted with considerable discomfort to the more independent and assertive policies of the new Japanese government. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates called Tokyo's desire to reopen debate about the location of U.S. bases in Okinawa "counterproductive" and the alternatives to current plans "politically untenable and operationally unworkable." On the other hand, President Obama observed during his visit to Tokyo in November that the U.S.-Japan relationship must be one of "equals" and "not a senior-vs-junior partnership." And Deputy Secretary of State James Steinberg last week welcomed the "expression of Japan's vibrant democracy" and the opportunity to "conduct an open dialogue on shaping the future of the alliance." As the Obama administration struggles to sort out its Japan policy, it should tilt decidedly toward welcoming rather than rebuffing the fresh approach of the government of Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama. While a cold response to his more assertive foreign policy is predictable--Tokyo since World War II has consistently deferred to its U.S. protector--it is sorely misguided. In questioning the location of the Okinawa bases and seeking a relationship with China not entirely mediated by Washington, the new government is not attempting to demote Japan's alliance with the United States. On the contrary, it is seeking to update the alliance to the new political and strategic environment in the region. Rather than warning Tokyo to return to the fold, Washington should work with the Hatoyama government to forge a healthier and more mature relationship. The election last year of the Democratic Party represents a watershed in Japanese politics, bringing to an end the post-war reign of the Liberal Democratic Party. In breaking the lock that the L.D.P. had on Japanese politics, the D.P.J. has cleared the way for pressures long pent up to rise to the surface. Many voters long for Japan to become a "normal" country - one that assumes more geopolitical responsibility and conducts a foreign policy made in Tokyo, not Washington. Mr. Hatoyama has pledged to address citizens' concerns about the social ills that U.S. bases have brought to their communities. And he has vowed to cut back the power of entrenched bureaucrats, who for decades preserved the status quo on foreign policy. Among older Japanese, for whom the U.S.-Japan alliance enjoyed a sacred status, this status quo was more than acceptable. But younger Japanese have begun to ask tough questions - to which Mr. Hatoyama is seeking answers. Tokyo's search for a more autonomous foreign policy is also a reflection of a changing strategic environment. China's rise is reshaping the region. It has become Japan's largest export market. Beijing has discovered the merits of regional engagement, opening the door to a new level of dialogue with Japan. Meanwhile, North Korea's nuclear program has provided a new urgency to regional dialogue, encouraging Japan to step out from behind the shadow of U.S. power. Japan is in many respects beginning to travel down the road taken by Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. With the end of the Cold War, the European Union both quickened its pace of regional integration and yearned for more autonomy from Washington. Germany and France even led the charge against the Iraq war in 2003, and the trans-Atlantic alliance emerged the stronger for it. Europe no longer grumbles about the excesses of U.S. power. And the United States enjoys the benefits of a more independent and capable Europe that is shouldering a heavy burden in Afghanistan, leading the effort to curb climate change, and helping to stabilize the global economy. Japan needs to similarly update its alliance with the United States, getting a measure of distance from Washington, but ultimately making the partnership stronger and more mature. Japan has the potential to be a regional leader on peacekeeping, foreign aid and clean energy technology. As Japan deepens its bilateral relationship with China, the two countries may finally have the opportunity to replicate the kind of rapprochement achieved by France and Germany after World War II. In the same way that Europeans built a self-sustaining regional peace, Japan should capitalize on the stability afforded by its alliance with the U.S. to make a push for Sino-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration. A more assertive and independent Japan promises to do much more for East Asia and the United States than a Japan that defers to Washington. It is past time for Washington and Tokyo to bring the alliance into the 21st century.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **And an assertive Japanese foreign policy allows for a multilateral balance of power to form—creates regional peace and stability**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Sukma, ’10**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Rizal Sukma, Executive Director @ The Centre for Strategic & International Studies, Ph.D. in International Relations from The London School of Economics & Politial Science, “East Asia need a strong Japan,” July 14th 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/06/14/east-asia-needs-a-strong-japan.html]]</span>] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> A change of head of government in Japan no longer surprises anyone. Two weeks ago, Yukio Hatoyama resigned as prime minister and was replaced by former finance minister Naoto Kan. Indeed, over the last four years, Japan has had several prime ministers. The victory of Japan’s Democratic Party (DPJ), which brought an end to the domination of Japanese politics by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), failed to ensure the stability of government in Japan. Protracted uncertainties in Japanese politics have further undermined the country’s efforts to regain its status as a significant player in East Asia. As the region is being transformed by the rise of China and the arrival of India as two new major powers, Japan has struggled to prove its relevance in the regional strategic equation. It is true that Japan remains an important economic power in the region and beyond. Yet, East Asia has now become a region shaped by countries with both economic and strategic significance. Even as an economic power, Japan is being challenged by China as the second largest economy in the world, and the prospect for Japan to revitalize its economy remains uncertain. In fact, Prime Minister Kan even warned that Japan could face a similar fate as Greece if it did not resolve its mounting national debt, which has reached 218.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009. Aware of the danger, as a new leader, Prime Minister Kan has promised to restore Japan’s economic vitality and aimed for more than 2 percent of annual growth by 2020. The challenge for Japan in achieving that target is enormous. In addition to economic problems, the dynamic of Japan’s internal politics often renders it difficult for any government to push for necessary reforms. For example, it is not immediately clear how long Prime Minister Kan would survive. One cannot be sure whether the DPJ would be able to maintain its grip on power in the next election. Despite all the difficulties, we hope Japan would be able to withstand the challenges. As international relations in East Asia enter its most crucial juncture, the role of Japan as a major regional power is very much needed. It is for the first time in Asia’s history that regional politics would be characterized by more than two powerful players. China will undoubtedly soon emerge as the most powerful country, second only to the US. India too will become a power that would shape the future of East Asia. As a result, a new emerging regional order is in the making. Southeast Asian countries, having good relationships with all four major powers, expect that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will continue to be peaceful and to the benefits of all regional nations, small and big. I, for one, believe that some sort of multi-polar structure in East Asia would ensure that the region continues to enjoy the stability it has experienced over the last five decades. In that context, a strong Japan would greatly contribute to the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. A strong Japan would be beneficial for the fulfillment of the ideal of an East Asian community. The role that Japan has played in Southeast Asia — an important component of East Asia’s stability and security — has helped the region flourish economically, which in turn contributes to peace and stability in the region. Southeast Asian states wish to see Japan, under the new administration led by Prime Minister Kan, to succeed. Southeast Asian states, and also East Asia as a whole, needs a strong partnership with Japan to ensure that the 21st century is indeed an Asian century. Indonesia is no exception. Our relationship with Japan will continue to occupy an important place in our foreign policy. Japan is the largest trading partner and investor in Indonesia. Japan has been playing an important role in our economic development and is a fellow democracy with whom we share many values and norms.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Regional security architectures is key to making the transition to a non-US dominant East Asia stable—solves the transition wars**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Kupchan, ’03**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Charles Kupchan, Associate Professor of Government @ The Walsh School of Foreign service, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “The Rise of Europe, America's Changing Internationalism, and the End of U.S. Primacy,” Political Science Quarterly, Summer, Vol. 118, Issue 2, Academic Search Premier]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> As this new century progresses, unipolarity will give way to a world of multiple centers of power. As this transition proceeds, American grand strategy should focus on making both Europe and East Asia less reliant on U.S. power, while at the same time working with major states in both regions to promote collective management of the global system. The ultimate vision that should guide U.S. grand strategy is the construction of a concert-like directorate of the major powers in North America, Europe, and East Asia. These major powers would together manage developments and regulate relations both within and among their respective regions. They would also coordinate efforts in the battle against terrorism, a struggle that will require patience and steady cooperation among many different nations. Regional centers of power also have the potential to facilitate the gradual incorporation of developing nations into global flows of trade, information, and values. Strong and vibrant regional centers, for reasons of both proximity and culture, often have the strongest incentives to promote prosperity and stability in their immediate peripheries. North America might, therefore, focus on Latin America; Europe on Russia, the Middle East, and Africa; and East Asia on South Asia and Southeast Asia. Mustering the political will and the foresight to pursue this vision will be a formidable task. The United States will need to begin ceding influence and autonomy to regions that have grown all too comfortable with American primacy. Neither American leaders, long accustomed to calling the shots, nor leaders in Europe and East Asia, long accustomed to passing the buck, will find the transition an easy one. But it is far wiser and safer to get ahead of the curve and shape structural change by design than to find unipolarity giving way to a chaotic multipolarity by default. It will take a decade, if not two, for a new international system to evolve. But the decisions taken by the United States early in the twenty-first century will play a critical role in determining whether multipolarity reemerges peacefully or brings with it the competitive jockeying that has so frequently been the precursor to great power war in the past.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **And only multilateral institutions can maintain a peaceful Chinese rise—the alternative is a imperialist China**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Nye et al., ’07**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]</span>] AP</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> A profound transformation has been unfolding in China, one that points to the possibility of China emerging as the dominant regional power. Even factoring in the possibility of disruption, China will continue to be an engine of regional growth and global dynamism. China’s growing comprehensive national power is already well reflected in its assertive diplomacy aimed at shaping the strategic environment around its borders. One key question for the United States, Japan, and all of Asia is: how will China use its newfound capabilities and resources as it matures as an economic and military power? Since our October 2000 report was issued, perhaps the most significant event in the Pacific has been the explosive economic growth of China. China’s trade-to- GDP ratio has nearly doubled in the past 10 years, making it much more reliant on the external sector—U.S. and Asian markets in particular and raw materials from Australia, North America, and increasingly the Middle East. While China’s economic success presents opportunities for all, there are also emerging costs, such as a drawing away of capital and jobs that would have otherwise gone to its Asian neighbors—those of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) especially. China will grow, but its growth will not necessarily be a linear “rise” without complications. China has massive internal challenges that include an aging society, a weak social safety net, large and growing disparities in development, and systemic corruption—all of which have resulted in social unease. China’s leaders also are faced with growing labor unrest, a weak banking and financial system, lingering ethnic disputes, environmental problems almost unimaginable to Westerners, and vulnerability to epidemic disease. Together, these challenges have caused Chinese leaders to focus internally, thereby putting a premium on external stability. China seeks a stable, peaceful international environment in which to develop its comprehensive national power. China needs to avoid any disruption of its access to national resources (particularly oil and gas) and foreign investment, and it can ill afford major diversions of resources to causes unrelated to the objectives of economic growth and public welfare. That said, nationalism is growing in China, as elsewhere in the region. Among China’s leaders, nationalism is likely viewed as a useful tool to muster support for the Communist Party, particularly should economic growth falter. Although reliance on nationalism poses risks for the regime, Chinese leaders will likely continue to tap into nationalist sentiment to bolster their own legitimacy. This may place limitations on the quality of interactions the United States and Japan can expect with China for the foreseeable future. Also limiting the quality of interactions are differences in values. The most profound of these relate to differences over human rights, religious freedoms, and political systems. The values gap matters in the most consequential form because it gives rise to a “trust deficit.” In the case of China, there is a growing body of evidence suggesting that the nexus between values and foreign policy could negatively affect U.S. interests. This is manifest in China’s behavior toward countries like Iran, Sudan, Venezuela, Zimbabwe, and Uzbekistan. It is evident that China is engaged in relationship building, which may enable continued irresponsible behavior on the part of other governments. One of the key features of Chinese foreign policy is a requirement to establish secure, reliable access to energy resources that lay beyond China’s borders. Its large and rising energy deficit and lingering distrust of free markets foster a perception among Chinese leaders that increasing reliance on foreign energy creates vulnerabilities. In the hope of securing the energy required to support China’s domestic demand, especially Persian Gulf oil to meet future transportation demands, China has embarked on an effort to promote supply diversification as well as overseas equity investment. The United States, Japan, and others will be further affected by China’s surging demand for energy and raw materials. Some of the consequences will likely be negative: higher prices for foreign crude, increasing environmental degradation, and competition over disputed maritime boundaries. But there will also be new opportunities for cooperation on energy efficiency, “clean-coal technology,” and nuclear power. It may also be the case that China’s increasing reliance on the outside world will present the United States and its friends with foreign policy opportunities. The spectacular economic growth of China has allowed it to make major investments in the military. China’s intensive military modernization efforts are focused on preparing for a possible conflict with Taiwan, and its efforts are paying off. China is developing the ability to fight a high-tech war along its periphery. China has, for example, developed remarkable coordination among critical military communities—those that do acquisition, training, logistics, doctrine/strategy, etc. Historically, such coordination has proven to be a formula for militaries to improve their capabilities quickly. China has also begun to break down some of the barriers between its services, although it has not yet developed the ability to conduct truly joint military operations. As China continues to expand its military capabilities, it is likely to place greater emphasis on the development of a blue-water navy. This flows in part from the perception that it needs to protect energy sources and sea lanes. The modernization and growth of China will insure its power and affluence, but the direction it takes remains an open question. In 2020, China could be a responsible stakeholder, with increased political freedoms and liberal institutions that support economic openness and make for more responsible treatment of its people and its neighbors. On the other hand, China’s conduct could be marked by mercantilism, with illiberal institutions, chauvinistic nationalism, and corruption that distort international norms and threaten neighbors. China will continue to face discrete decision points in the global arena. In such instances, it is important that China has incentives to make those choices that lead it down a path of peaceful integration and benign competition.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Chinese military strategy means if conflict occurs, full-scale escalation is likely**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Dodge, ’05**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies—Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, Pg. 415-416]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In the summer of 2005, Chinese Major-General Zhu Chenghu threatened the United States with nuclear attack, stating that, “If the Americans draw their missiles and position-guided ammunition on to the target zone on China’s territory, I think we will have to respond with nuclear weapons.”1 It should be noted that the People’s Republic of China (PRC) considers Taiwan to be PRC territory, as well as the territorial waters surrounding the island, its exclusive economic zone, those of the Senkaku (Diaoyutai Islands), and virtually the entire South China Sea and its islands. To be successful in any military effort to acquire Taiwan or any of its many other territorial ambitions, the PRC realizes that it must be able to deter U.S. military intervention. The idea is to convince the United States and the world that China is both capable and, more importantly, willing to inflict grievous casualties on U.S. forces, even at the cost of heavy economic, diplomatic, and military losses to the PRC. Efforts toward this end have been manifested over recent years in the form of greatly increased military spending, the acquisition of weapons designed specifically to attack U.S. naval forces, the development of new strategic and tactical nuclear weapons, and the formation of a naval warfighting strategy that emphasizes asymmetric attacks on high-value U.S. assets and personnel. The July statement from General Zhu is of course among the most visible of these efforts. One wonders why General Zhu was not fired or even sternly reprimanded by his military and Chinese Communist Party (CCP) superiors for such a statement at an official press conference. In truth, it is but the latest in a string of bellicose remarks by high-ranking Chinese military officials designed to convince the U.S. policymaking, intelligence, and military communities that China is ready to escalate to the use of nuclear weapons should it become necessary. Classic deterrence, after all, dictates that an enemy can only be deterred through the combination of capability and credibility. However, when considered in the context of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Navy (PLAN) strategy to take on the United States in a naval and aerial conflict, China’s strategy to deter can be seen as a recipe for inadvertent nuclear escalation. Put simply, this piece argues that China’s warfighting doctrine is misguided, unrealistic, and dangerous. It is misguided because it places a great deal of focus on attacking U.S. aircraft carriers, which in reality are likely to be far more difficult to find, track, and attack than the Chinese realize. It is unrealistic because the vast majority of Chinese naval and air forces, which comprise the backbone of its conventional force options, are likely to be annihilated by American standoff weapons, advanced aircraft, and vastly superior attack submarines. Most important of all, the way in which China has mated its nuclear strategy to its conventional warfighting strategy is extremely dangerous because it makes nuclear war with the United States far more likely. There are several reasons why this is the case. First, China’s acquisition of advanced foreign weaponry, its expectation that the United States will back down at the first hint of casualties, and its belief that nuclear weapons can act as a force multiplier all threaten to lower the nuclear threshold and cause a deterrence failure vis-`a-vis U.S. forces in the region. Lulled into a false sense of security, China may act on its irredentist policies when it should be deterred by superior U.S. forces and slim chances for victory. Second, Chinese capabilities are actually very modest, meaning they are only suitable for combat against other regional states. When faced with a first-rate power, China’s forces will suffer heavy attrition. Finally, the loss of these forces, including high-value naval combatants, aircraft, and early warning assets, will cause China’s conventional strategy to collapse, leaving only nuclear options. At this point, the PRC will be left with only two real choices and find itself at a strategic “fork in the road.” On one hand, it can de-escalate, sue for peace, or otherwise accept defeat. On the other, it can fall back on the nuclear aspect of its doctrine. Enormous domestic, economic, and political pressures will make the choice of the former a very difficult one for the PRC leadership. The latter choice entails either early nuclear usage to avoid anticipated casualties, or later use in a desperate effort to cause massive U.S. casualties, aid PLAN conventional forces, or tip the tactical balance in China’s favor. This analysis first examines the conventional aspects of China’s naval strategy and its preoccupation with anti-carrier tactics. Nuclear weapons are closely integrated with conventional forces in this strategy, and both play a crucial role in threatening high-value U.S. assets. The discussion then turns to the real-world difficulties China would face while attempting to track and attack an aircraft carrier battlegroup. Similarly, the vital role of U.S. attack submarines in defeating China’s anti-access strategies will be detailed. While these sections explore why China’s anti-carrier and sea denial strategies are unlikely to succeed, they also highlight just a few of the many reasons why China’s forces would stand little real chance against U.S. forces in the foreseeable future. Finally, these factors will be analyzed in the context of theories of inadvertent escalation. Originally formulated in reference to late Cold War conflict scenarios, these ideas are greatly germane to any future Sino-U.S. conflict. It is only through the exploration of the impacts of U.S. offensive and defensive actions, as well as the concomitant attrition of conventional forces, that the full escalatory dangers of Chinese warfighting strategy may be revealed.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Independently, conflict will cause global conflict escalation—countries will take advantage of US pre-occupation**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Straits Times, 2K**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into a full-scale war between the US and China. If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -- horror of horrors -- raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, East Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -- truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization. There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of a nuclear Armageddon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **And, Major Powers will get involved—escalates globally**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Hunkovic, ’09**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Lee J. Hunkovic, Professor @ The American Military University, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America,” 2009, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war, therefore, many countries other than the primary actors could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great Britain, if they were drawn into the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the United States and China are the two most dominant members. If China were able to successfully annex Taiwan, the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, which could in turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat. In any case, if China and the United States engage in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries in the world that will not be economically and/or militarily affected by it. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Independently, East Asian multilateralism is key to maintain East Asian stability**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Feng, ’10**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Zhu Feng, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, Has served as Research Fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, Visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “AN EMERGING TREND IN EAST ASIA: MILITARY BUDGET INCREASES AND THEIR IMPACT”, May 10th 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> If it is not yet an alarmist warning, the rise in military spending in the region is at least a timely wake-up call as to the vulnerability of East Asia security. Many Asian observers agree that East Asia is in transition. But the key questions concern the sources, the pace, and direction of the transition. There is growing speculation that post-cold war U.S. regional hegemony is eroding, due primarily to Washington’s significant international commitments in the Middle East, Afghanistan, and Pakistan as well as the impact of the global financial crisis and the rapid rise of China. At the same time, new challenges, such as a nuclear North Korea, a changing Japan, difficult-to-solve territorial disputes across the region, contentious history issues, and, perhaps most importantly, the “security dilemma” arising from a power shift in the region have emerged as potentially destabilizing factors. What is the regional security perspective, and what will be the emerging trends? The answer varies tremendously according to the respective preferences, strategic goal-setting, and interest calculations of the regional member states. As John Ikenberry and Michael Mastanduno argue, “the Asia-Pacific is a mosaic of divergent cultures and political regime types, historical estrangements, shifting power balances, and rapid economic change.” But how will this “mosaic” evolve and what will be the sustainable outlook of great-power relations in East Asia? David Shambaugh optimistically assumes that the ongoing power shift in East Asia will not likely lead to a dramatic strategic shift in the East Asian order. Similarly, as Robert S. Ross and Zhu Feng emphasize, structural and long-term international factors, as well as short-term U.S. and Chinese policy trends, allow for tempered optimism that a power transition, albeit competitive and costly, can remain peaceful. But can such optimism be sustained in the foreseeable future? A focus on aggregate defense spending cannot mask the effects of increasingly volatile regional security flash points, such as a nuclear North Korea, or regional power shifts involving China, India, and Japan. Any serious exploration of regional security dynamics, however, must recognize that there are no important hidden shifts in national strategies. So far, power shifts in East Asia have not substantially destabilized the military balance. Nor has the global financial crisis opened up a “window of opportunity” for any power in the region to engage in military adventurism. The ongoing financial crisis has highlighted the fragility, lack of legitimacy, and overall imbalances in global economic governance. At the same time, new and powerful members of the global system have yet to take their place at the table of a wide range of international forums managing regional and multilateral relationships in the domain of old and “new” security issues. This includes the rise of new giants such as India, China, and Brazil, new forms of governance at the regional level of which the European Union is a model, and many emerging states of medium size whose place at the global table remains uncertain. The continued exclusion of the poorest countries in the world and the ongoing problem of failed states, coupled with debilitating ethnic conflicts, continue to loom large. The diversity of regional perspectives should not weaken regional security efforts, which by nature are shared, interconnected, and indispensable. The future of regional security need not be gloomy, as long as we can figure out how to properly handle security challenges in a way that reenergizes regional financial and economic integration in the wake of the global financial crisis. (China, for instance, is agonizing over the repeated demand for greater transparency and vigilant oversight from its neighbors). Meanwhile, there is little evidence that Beijing’s increased military budget encourages instability in the region. Nevertheless, the avoidance of diplomatic clashes and the management of contending security concerns should be a concern for every country in the region.</span>


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Bronx - Japan 1AC**</span>== 

Plan – The United States federal government should close the Marine Corps Air Station Futenma and implement a phased withdrawal of all Marines stationed on Okinawa, except for the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit, to the point of elimination.
__Advantage One – The Alliance__
__We’ll isolate three internal links__
__First, equality__ – The Futenma issue is the __test case__ for a truly equal alliance – Officials in the White House are blinded by the situations’ potential
Van Wolferen ‘10
[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, [[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Another crucial subject, a potential hindrance on the path to Minshuto’s success, does not receive the close media attention it deserves. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U.S.-Japan relationship was something that practically everyone took for granted. The problem has been that Washington has not treated Japan as a fully independent country. This situation has already been fundamentally changed by the Hatoyama cabinet. Merely by having opened the subject of inequality for discussion means that things can never be the same again. But the Obama administration is apparently not ready</span></span> for a non-Jiminto government, which was made poignantly clear by the stern messages of Hillary Clinton just before the election and those of Robert Gates soon after it. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The matter of moving an American Marine base in Okinawa is apparently being turned into a test case to see whether the new government understands who is boss. Many governments</span></span>, including Washington, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">have long wished for Japan to take a more active role on the world stage.</span></span> Its economic might changed the fate of industries in the United States and Europe, but from a geopolitical point of view, and in diplomacy, it was barely visible. The rest of the world got used to what was early on labeled as an ‘economic giant but political dwarf’<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. And now, when the new government says that this undesirable imbalance must change, Americans can only whine about military base arrangements </span></span>different from what they want. The two cases of the public prosecutor relentlessly pursuing supposed lawbreaking by Ozawa and American insistence on Japan implementing what Washington had earlier forced the Jiminto to agree to in 2006 have something in common. They share the lack of a general sense of proportion. A stranger to Japan, just reading big newspaper headlines between December and February on a visit, would get the impression that Ozawa was trying to evade something like a murder conviction. Any financial misreporting by Ozawa’s assistants, a misdemeanor that in other democracies would be quietly investigated, does not remotely have the weight warranting the pillory of Ozawa we have just witnessed. And considering that the public prosecutor had so little to go on that he was forced to dismiss the case against Ozawa himself, we can only conclude that things have been crazily out of proportion. That such a relatively small thing could be the source of speculation about an end to the first Minshuto cabinet, and be the basis of daily front page reporting of mainly invented public opinion about the need for Ozawa to resign, like the fever chart of a hospital patient, would make strangers unacquainted with Japanese ways wonder about the sanity of political life here. I just read an editorial in one of the major newspapers that makes the point that while no evidence could be found, this does not mean that Ozawa is innocent. It is a statement that indicates a state of hysteria among some editors, giving the impression that it has become a personal vendetta for them. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In the Futenma base case we see a new American presidency entirely missing the significance of what is happening in Japan. Obama and his advisers risk undermining new possibilities for creating a stable new cooperative relationship. Over what? Over something that ought to be minuscule in their global strategic vision</span></span>. We learn from this that the Obama administration does not have its act together with respect to the revamped diplomatic attitude toward the world it announced when taking over from George W. Bush. It also proves that the American military has taken over far more American foreign policy than the details that relate to the countries it occupies. But considering that almost all of the top American officials dealing with Japan are ‘alumni’ of the Pentagon, this lack of a sense of proportion, this tunnel vision, should not surprise us. When you can upset something very big with something that in neutral eyes can only be judged to be pretty small you have extraordinary power. We need to contemplate the vagaries of power when we contemplate the story of today’s Japan. It has undergone the biggest power-shift since the 1950s, and Minshutohas already changed some things beyond a point where they can go back to what they were. But that does not mean that its power has been consolidated. Its strength will be tested again and again. An untimely departure of the Hatoyama cabinet would be very unfortunate. With the Jiminto in charge, an annual change of prime minister hardly mattered. But a return to the ‘musical chairs’ method of change would be disastrous for Japan’s political future. The consolidation ofMinshuto power will, of course, require dealing with the problem of the misplaced priorities of the public prosecutor, and of journalists who feed on leaks from the prosecutor's office like mad dogs. When Ozawa first became the target of investigations last spring, which forced him to resign as Minshuto president, foregoing the chance to become prime minister, several Diet members were quoted as saying that if the prosecutor’s office “would apply the same standards to all of us”, the Diet would be as good as empty. To be sure, the public prosecutor theoretically would have had the power in Jiminto days of emptying, say, half the Diet. But you can imagine that this power would not last beyond the first move of such idiotic action, because everyone in Japan, including the newspapers would conclude that the public prosecutor had gone mad. This thought experiment demonstrates an important quality of power: it is not absolute. Power is a rather elusive thing; hard to catch conceptually in a concrete way. It has no substance that relates in any way to the laws of Newtonian physics. You cannot measure it, count it, or express it in numbers. The attempts of some specialists in political science to quantify power fail miserably. Power is in essence different from influence, which can be measured. It derives its nature to a large extent through what it is in the eyes of the recipient, the person or group to which it is directed (and is in this way somewhat comparable to love). Take an example from recent history. You will remember what happened to the power of the Soviet Union just before the end of the Cold War. A huge power system existed, which was believed to be unshakeable. It had defined the nature of our post-World-War-II geopolitics. Then something relatively small triggered events that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In no time in 1989 the great power emanating from Moscow that kept populations in Eastern Europe in thrall was gone. It vanished in less than a week. Why? Because it rested on the psychology of fear. Fear of Soviet tanks. And that disappeared suddenly because Gorbachev demonstrated that he had meant what he said about not using violence to stop developments. What we have just witnessed in Japan, and will probably witness again, is a power struggle. On one side, reformist politicians eager to implement true reform of the structure of the Japanese power system, and on the other venerable career officials who believe that the established order is something sacred. But the power of these career officials will melt like ice and snow when editorial writers and television commentators warm up to the exciting political possibilities that have opened up for Japan. Being human beings interested in public affairs, as well as Japanese with at least a residual sense of patriotism, such a switch of focus ought not be too difficult for them. With the U.S.-Japan relationship we have another very curious power relationship, whose problems could be solved in favor of Japan. The world’s two greatest industrial powers relate to each other in unique fashion; there is nothing comparable to it. Hatoyama’s critics who blame him for mishandling diplomacy vis-à-vis Washington overlook the fact that normal diplomacy is not possible in this case, because the United States does not truly recognize Japanese sovereignty—an indispensable condition for diplomacy. It has been taken as a matter of course that Japan would in the end always do what the United States wanted. The Hatoyama government must deal with unfinished post-World War II business that its Jiminto predecessors have never looked straight in the eye. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">People speak automatically about the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and Japan as allies. But, again, we have a conceptual problem here. An alliance is a relationship entered into voluntarily by two or more independent states. When this supposed alliance began Japan had no choice in the matter. </span></span>During the Occupation following World War II, Washington turned Japan into a protectorate, and has since continued to treat to Japan as such—while, more recently, urging Japan to participate in American military ventures in other countries. Virtual protectorate status has certainly had some great advantages. Japan’s very rapid growth as a trading power was much facilitated by its sheltering in the American strategic and diplomatic shadow. But<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, most importantly </span></span>for Japan’s place in the world until recently was that the main things by which a state is recognized internationally were carried out by American proxy. In other words,<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Japan did not need to present itself to other countries with a strong government, capable of making fundamental political decisions. We only need to think this through to see the connection between Japan’s lack of a political steering wheel until now and its pathological dependence on the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates. I think that the foremost Minshuto politicians, and certainly Ozawa, are aware of the mutual dependence of these two factors. As long as the United States appeared to supply a substitute for genuine large-scale Japanese diplomacy and strategic arrangements, there was no urgent need for a Japanese government capable of supplying those. And <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as long as no formal government in Tokyo balked at Japan being treated as a protectorate Washington could afford to meet Japanese sensibilities with disdain, as it is doing now with respect to the Marines on Okinawa. It is therefore natural that by establishing a true political center the conditions that have kept this dependency relationship going are radically altered. </span></span></span>

That’s uniquely key – an equal alliance is key to create the perception of stability
Nye et al. 2K
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, [[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]] AP
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If the U</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">St</span></span>ates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">can exercise leadership--that is to say, excellence without arrogance--in its relations with Japan, the two countries will be better able to realize the full potential for cooperation nurtured during the past 50 years. If the changes underway in Japan ultimately produce a stronger, more responsive political and economic system, the synergy in U.S.- Japan relations will enhance our abilities to play an engaged, mutually supportive, and fundamentally constructive role in regional and global arenas in the years to come. Because the stakes are so high in Asia, it is urgent that the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and Japan develop a common perception and approach regarding their relationship in the 21st century. The potential for conflict in Asia is lowered dramatically by a visible and real U.S.- Japan defense relationship. The use of bases granted by Japan allows the U.S. to affect the security environment from the Pacific to the Persian Gulf. </span></span>The revised Guidelines for U.S.-Japan Defense Cooperation, the basis for joint defense planning, should be regarded as the floor--not the ceiling--for an expanded Japanese role in the transpacific alliance, and the uncertainties of the post-Cold War regional setting require a more dynamic approach to bilateral defense planning. Japan's prohibition against collective self-defense is a constraint on alliance cooperation. Lifting this prohibition would allow for closer and more efficient security cooperation. This is a decision that only the Japanese people can make. The United States has respected the domestic decisions that form the character of Japanese security policies and should continue to do so. But <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington must make clear that it welcomes a Japan that is willing to make a greater contribution and to become a more equal alliance partner. We see the special relationship between the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and Great Britain as a model for the alliance. </span></span></span>

__Second, sustainability__ – the status quo alliance is politically unsustainable – failure to resolve the crisis over Marines will collapse all public support
Yamaguchi ‘10
[Noboru Yamaguchi, Visiting Scholar @ The John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies of Harvard University, Senior Defense Attache @ The Embassy of Japan in the U.S., Commanding General of the Japan Ground Self Defense Force Aviation School, Deputy Director of the National Institute for Defense Studies, Vice Commandant of the JGDSF Research & Development Command, “Resignation in Washington Toward the Japan-US Alliance,” March 17th 2010, [[http://www.tokyofoundation.org/en/articles/2009/beware-resignation-in-washington-toward-the-japan-us-alliance]]]
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In this context, we must not forget the asymmetry in the Japan-US alliance. From the start, this has been a relationship in which Japan maintains only light military power and holds its military commitments abroad to the minimum. At the same time it provides bases for American troops, in exchange for which the U</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">guarantees its security. Because of this asymmetry, dissatisfaction with the other partner can easily mount on either side.</span></span> The US military stands prepared to shed the blood of young Americans in the event of an emergency in Japan. Because it does not ask Japan to do the same, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a sense of extreme imbalance exists on the American side with respect to the burdens to be borne in an emergency. On our side of the Pacific, Japan provides bases in exchange for the use of US military power as a deterrent. From the perspective of the Japanese people, however, what tends to stand out more prominently than the life-or-death benefits they would receive from American cooperation in an emergency that may or may not even occur is the peacetime cost of maintaining of the US bases, which are additionally a source of noise pollution, accidents, and scandals involving American soldiers. The problem of Futenma’s relocation is linked to this unbalanced nature of the bilateral alliance.</span></span> The initial relocation plan offers a representative example of attempts to provide greater stability to the stationing of US forces in Japan by lightening the excessive burdens imposed on Okinawa, and hence to sustain the deterrent provided by the presence of the US military. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If the Futenma issue cannot be resolved smoothly, a vicious circle working in the opposite direction could take hold. Not only would residents in the vicinity of the base fail to see a lightening of their load, but the deterrence provided by the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">could also be impaired. There is another major problem. This is that damage could be done to the efforts by both sides to lessen the alliance’s asymmetry, even if only to a limited extent. Over the past 20 years Tokyo and Washington have both worked hard to get Japan to shoulder greater responsibility for regional and global security and thereby move the alliance beyond one in which Japan merely makes bases available in exchange for help with its defense.</span></span> As a result of this endeavor, Japan’s participation in international security cooperation has increased. Shortly after the 1990–91 Persian Gulf War, Japan dispatched minesweepers to the Gulf, and in recent years it has sent other units of the Self-Defense Forces to the Indian Ocean and Iraq and participated in international anti-piracy patrols off the coast of Somalia. One element of these efforts involved was the “reaffirmation of the Japan-US alliance” initiative led by Joseph Nye during his term as US assistant secretary of defense in the mid-1990s. Then, from 2004 to 2006, attention focused on the work to “transform the Japan-US alliance,” especially on plans to relocate the Futenma base and realign the US forces stationed in Japan. Among other key issues addressed were executing peacekeeping operations, extending humanitarian reconstruction assistance, and preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction. Aiming for an Expanding Equilibrium. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It is fair to say that the aim of these efforts was to correct the alliance’s distinctive asymmetry as far as possible and bring about an “expanding equilibrium.” In this light, we have now arrived at a new juncture with the birth of the Obama administration</span></span> in the United States <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and the Hatoyama administration in Japan just as the revised security treaty has marked its fiftieth anniversary. This provides a fitting occasion for making the alliance deeper yet. When Jack Crouch, a former assistant to the US president, came to Japan in late January, he spoke of the opportunities that Japan and the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">were losing by wasting time on the Futenma issue. He said that the relocation needed to be guided to a soft landing so that discussions on improving the alliance for the future could be resumed as quickly as possible. Earlier I referred to the sense of resignation among some Americans concerned about the alliance. If their attitude prevails, there is the danger that people will opt in favor of the contracting-equilibrium option.</span></span> That is, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">both sides could lower their expectations and scale back their responsibilities and obligations. In the background is the sense of disappointment felt by those Americans who over a period of many years devoted themselves to piloting the alliance toward an expanding equilibrium.</span></span> If they have become dispirited, we Japanese must strive to regain their trust so that they resume their expanding-equilibrium activities. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">At the same time, we must make sure that there is no wavering on a fundamental but low-profile element of the Japan-US alliance. This involves securing deterrent power by placing the US forces stationed in Japan on a stable footing. If this is not done, Japan’s very existence as a state may be altered fundamentally.</span></span> </span>

This ensures political disaster that will cripple the alliance and support for our broader bases in Japan – serve as the absolute key for our power projection
Ennis ‘10
[Peter Ennis, Former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, Former Research Fellow @ Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, Long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, Founder of The Oriental Economist, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” June 18th 2010, Dispatch Japan, [[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html]]]
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">The exchanges of the last week can’t be dismissed as unwarranted airing of diplomatic dirty laundry. By all accounts, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the dispute between Washington and Tokyo surrounding</span></span> the Marine <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Futenma</span></span> base on Okinawa <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">exposed some deep weaknesses in the common understanding, structure, and management of the alliance. Bader and Green are deeply committed to the notion that the US-Japan alliance is the key to stability in East Asia</span></span>. They believe the Obama administration handled the Futenma dispute quite well. Clemons and Sneider are also dedicated to the alliance, but fear the Obama administration’s approach to Futenma has done much more harm than good. Understanding this disagreement is critical to ensuring the US-Japan alliance regains and remains on solid footing. ROOT OF DISPUTE: Though the arguments of Bader and Green are persuasive at points, I believe the critiques leveled by Clemons and Sneider are on the mark. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The core of the problem is that much of Washington’s “Japan Hand” community, and the broader community of foreign policy “generalists,” did not appreciate or want to engage the scope and depth of change in Japan represented by the</span></span> coming to power of the Democratic Party (<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">DPJ</span></span>). <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">One of America’s preeminent experts on Japanese history and security policy, Kenneth Pyle of the University of Washington, recently wrote that the Futenma dispute reflected an inevitable yearning in Japan for “a new equilibrium for the alliance.” For decades, </span>[[@http://nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP10/AP10_B_JapanRT.pdf|he wrote]]<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, the alliance had essentially made Japan “a military satellite</span></span>, some would even say a client state,” of the United States. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This unnatural arrangement was finally giving way to pent up desires for greater “autonomy and self mastery.” The “degree of US domination in the relationship has been so extreme,” Pyle wrote, that “a recalibration of the alliance was bound to happen.” Rather than accepting the inevitable, and seeking to shape the changes in Japan to be consistent with alliance goals, the halls of power in Washington became filled with the disturbing sentiment that DPJ leaders were basically unwanted and unworthy interlopers in an otherwise cozy and fruitful bilateral arrangement.</span></span> The “word” spread that the DPJ was somehow anti-Alliance, was tilting toward China, and was questioning the very cornerstone of the alliance – access to bases, in exchange for American defense of Japan. Diplomatic snubs -- big and small -- hit DPJ leaders from all sides, exacerbating an impression that Hatoyama and his party were unwilling or unable to manage the all-important American alliance. This may not have caused Hatoyama’s demise, but it certainly contributed. BEFORE THE BEGINNING: The problem was evident even before Hatoyama and the DPJ came to power, in September 2009. Toward the end of 2007, after the DPJ had won a huge victory in Upper House elections, legislation was about to expire authorizing the refueling of US and allied naval vessels in the Indian Ocean by Japan’s Maritime Self Defense Forces. The Diet initially adopted the legislation in the wake of 9-11 to aid anti-Taliban and anti-Al Qaeda operations in Afghanistan. In the wake of the US invasion of Iraq, which many leaders in the then-ruling Liberal Democratic Party and the DPJ privately opposed, support for the refueling operations waned. It was common knowledge that the refueling was almost entirely symbolic, with no real operational value. Moreover, even ardently pro-US DPJ legislators were upset by signs that some oil provided to American naval vessels had been utilized for operations around Iraq. Much like in Europe, the Japanese public deeply opposed the US invasion of Iraq, and even then-Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda from the traditional US ally, the LDP, barely kept quiet his lack of enthusiasm for continuing the refueling operations. But the Bush administration, backed by a surprisingly diverse group of American specialists on Japan, barely contained its contempt for the DPJ opposition, and put enormous pressure on Fukuda to force through the refueling authorization. One of the strongest critics of the DPJ at that time was Mike Green, who co-wrote an op-ed for Asahi Shimbun pressing for reauthorization. The co-writer was Kurt Campbell, who was then advising Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, and who is now the State Department’s chief Asia specialist. Support for the Indian Ocean refueling operations became a litmus test for support of the alliance, even though the DPJ’s and other opposition to reauthorization was deeply rooted in the same kind of anger over the Iraq war that both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama had repeatedly expressed. FUTENMA, ANOTHER LITMUS TEST: <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">By the time the Obama administration took office in early 2009, the Futenma issue was brewing as another supposed litmus test of Japan’s loyalty and commitment to the alliance</span></span>. Mr. Bader cites Hillary Clinton’s visit to Japan in February 2009, her first step on foreign soil as secretary of state, as a sign of the importance Obama attached to the alliance with Japan. He doesn’t mention that Secretary Clinton’s top agenda item was to sign papers giving the go-ahead for construction of a replacement facility on Okinawa for the Marine Futenma air station. At the time, it was a virtual certainty that the DPJ would oust the LDP in elections several months later, and the DPJ had made clear its desire to have a Futenma replacement facility built outside of Okinawa, perhaps even outside of Japan. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Nevertheless, without even so much as a perfunctory review of Japan policy of the sort that is common when a new administration takes office, the Obama team pushed ahead for implementation of the Futenma replacement plan, paying no discernable heed to DPJ views.</span></span> Prior to her departure, Bader brought Green in to brief Secretary Clinton on Japan. Green, who was a top foreign policy advisor to Republican presidential candidate John McCain in 2008, strongly supported the 2006 plan to build the Futenma replacement on Okinawa. Bader says that US Ambassador John Roos became the point man for US policy in Tokyo. But US policy on Futenma under Obama was set long before Roos was even nominated to be ambassador, much less took up his post in Japan. Bader argued that the Hatoyama government’s questioning of the 2006 Futenma agreement “came against a backdrop of questioning of all US bases in Japan.” But there is not one statement by a Hatoyama government official that proves this assertion. Hatoyama questioned Futenma, not any other US base in Japan. But Bader’s assertion is unfortunately all-too-typical of what became common place in Washington while Hatoyama was in office. Bader asserted that Defense Secretary Bob Gates was unfairly accused of adopting a "confrontational approach to Japan during his October 2009 trip to Tokyo, citing a "leak to Japanese reporters of his comments to Foreign Minister Okada. But Gates had stated in no uncertain terms that efforts to alter the 2006 Futenma agreement would, in Bader’s words, “damage the alliance.” The “leak” Bader cites was a common-place “read out” of the meeting to the Japanese press. Gates left no doubt in his public statements and other gestures about the inflexible nature of his message. American journalists reported Gates’s demeanor as unmistakable. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">More than any other event, Gates's uncharacteristically gruff and haughty performance during his October visit to Tokyo set the tone for the entire way the Obama administration dealt with the Hatoyama government</span></span>. Bader claims the Administration did not reject Hatoyama’s proposal to talk about Futenma. Leaving aside some minor gestures of willingness to discuss burden reduction on Okinawa, the administration never budged from its fundamental, highly dubious insistence that the 2006 Futenma replacement plan was an absolutely critical, irreplaceable part of the overall US strategic posture in East Asia. He asserts that “the President always believed that US-Japan relations are much larger than a single base issue.” That simply doesn’t square with the Administration’s unrelenting stance that, in effect, any questioning of the need for a Futenma replacement facility on Okinawa amounted to disloyalty to the alliance. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Administration spokesmen repeatedly grouped Futenma in with all other US facilities in Japan, including the giant Kadena US Air Force Base – home to the largest US air wing in the world, and the vital Yokosuka naval facility, home to the US 7th Fleet – the only US aircraft carrier group the US Navy home ports abroad. These two facilities are the absolute key to the US forward-deployed ability to project power in East Asia</span></span>, along with the 8thArmy and related air and sea units in South Korea, and the huge air, Marine, and naval buildup underway on Guam. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Given this vast array of indispensable US power projection capabilities in the region, it was perfectly reasonable to ask just why the Futenma replacement facility is so vital. The US is already redeploying 8,000 ground troops out of South Korea</span></span>, has moved many units further south to make them into a more flexible regional force, and has turned over to South Korea operational control of its own armed forces. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Yet the current structure of the Marine presence on Okinawa remained curiously beyond the realm of acceptable discussion, at the insistence of Obama administration officials. Throughout the entire discussion, the Administration has painfully been unable to answer a simple question: Just what indispensable contribution to deterrence in East Asia do the Marines on Okinawa make that they could not make if based elsewhere? The Marines are not indispensable quelling any potential North Korean assault on the South. ROK ground forces alone number more than the combined personnel of the US Army and US Marine Corps, worldwide. The main US role in a Korean Peninsula contingency would be air and naval, largely based out of Kadena and Yokosuka</span></span>. The job of seizing North Korean ports to facilitate humanitarian relief operations in a crisis, or the job of locating and securing North Korean nuclear materials, could all be conducted by Marines brought into Japan for those purposes, utilizing prepositioned supplies and equipment located on bases agreed to by Tokyo. As it is, a good number of the US Marines nominally based on Okinawa for deterrence in East Asia are often deployed elsewhere, including Afghanistan.<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Nor are the Marines on Okinawa to somehow deter China, a job done most effectively, once again, by the US air and naval forces based at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively. Are the US Marines vital to stability in East Asia? Absolutely. But nowhere is it written in strategic stone that they have to be based on Okinawa.</span></span> The need for the Henoko project to replace Futenma largely boils down to one factor: The Marines want to introduce to Okinawa in the coming years the V-22 Osprey, a tiltrotor aircraft capable of both vertical and conventional takeoffs and landings. Why is a new runway needed at Henoko, designated site for the Futenma replacement facility, if the Osprey has vertical capability? Because the aircraft is notoriously unreliable, and the Marines say they need a runway in the event the shift from turboprop to helicopter capability fails. Ironically, the State Department’s Kurt Campbell, who fought so hard for the Futenma project in recent months, was strongly opposed to further development of the Osprey while he worked at the Pentagon over a decade ago. Beyond the Osprey requirements, the Marines also defend their status on Okinawa because of the heavy funding provided by Japan as base support. All things being equal, Okinawa is a highly advantageous location for the US Marines to be based. But all things are not equal, given that 20% of the entirety of Okinawa island’s land mass is taken up by US military facilities. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The heavy concentration on Okinawa of US Forces in Japan is a political disaster just waiting to happen. Anyone truly interested in the political sustainability of vital US air and naval bases in Japan should be worried about the pent-up animosity all-too-evident on Okinawa</span></span>. Indeed, while American officials rightly point to high levels of public support in Japan for the Japan-US alliance, they are less apt to point to the large majority of Japanese – and not just Okinawa residents – who oppose construction of a Futenma replacement facility on the island. Mike Green in his CSIS memorandum argues that Hatoyama gratuitously raised expectations among Okinawans that the Futenma replacement facility might not be built, immensely complicating potential implementation of the bilateral accord announced on May 28. Actually, all Hatoyama did was give voice to resentments that have long been simmering on Okinawa. Bader and others have argued that the current tensions on the Korean Peninsula, and recent incidents of Chinese helicopter harassment of Japanese naval vessels, served to push the Hatoyama government to finally agree to construction of a Futenma replacement facility at Henoko. But Japanese officials close to Hatoyama deny this, and US officials do not provide any evidence to support their assertion. Indeed, Hatoyama from his first days in office made sure to align his government with that of South Korea. Prior to a trilateral summit of the leaders of Japan, South Korea, and China in Beijing last October, Hatoyama first visited Seoul. His intention was to balance a visit to Pyongyang just days before by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao. The DPJ did not need to be “educated” on the dangers posed by North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, nor by China’s territorial designs on natural gas reserves in the East China Sea. MOVING FORWARD: So where do things stand now? <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Bader insists that the DPJ has matured in its understanding of security issues, thereby placing the Alliance of a stronger footing. In reality, the danger is very real that US officials will badly misread the national sentiments in Japan</span></span>. As it is, many top DPJ leaders feel they had their collective arms twisted to accept the 2006 Futenma plan, and the experience has left a bitter taste. There is anger in Japan, of course, over the haphazard, slipshod fashion with which Hatoyama managed the Futenma issue. But there is intense awareness of the rumors, innuendo, faulty accusations, and dodgy mistreatment from Washington that further sullied Hatoyama’s stature. For now, Prime Minister Naoto Kan is saying he will back the Futenma replacement plan, but that is largely to keep the Obama administration at bay. There is little support inside the DPJ for spending any political capital on forcing the Futenma plan on to Okinawans. The Kan government, if anything, is somewhat more liberal on security issues than was Hatoyama. Given the political calendar in Tokyo, it will be very difficult to meet the August deadline for finalizing technical details for the planned Henoko facility. Upper House elections will take place in late July, followed by a DPJ presidential contest in September, and later by a critical vote for governor of Okinawa. Without the governor’s support, Kan could be forced to push the plan through with a “special measures law.” Mike Green acknowledges that such high stakes political drama could cause the DPJ to split. That raises the question of whether the US would use its weight to push aside yet another prime minister for the sake of the Henoko project. That’s not a pretty picture. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It’s not too late for the US and Japan to turn the Futenma controversy into a win-win situation, but that would require US willingness to discuss significant restructuring of the Marine presence on Okinawa, beyond what is already planned</span></span>. The first, interim step would be a sincere effort by the US to significantly relocate Marine and Air Force training exercises to different parts of Japan. Rather than spending political capital on promoting the wildly unpopular Henoko plan, Kan would be better off pressing governors in other prefectures to accept more US military personnel for basing and training purposes. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Beyond that, the US and Japan should lock in a firm bilateral understanding on the vital need for a continued, long-term US air and naval presence at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively</span></span>. Japan should be fully part of US regional force structure planning for East Asia, looking at opportunities for joint basing of US and SDF forces, and for ways in which expanded Japanese operational capabilities could best complement those of US forces and alliance goals. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Seen in that context, the Futenma issue becomes more of a manageable irritant than a perilous fault line that threatens to shake the alliance to its core. The Obama administration shows no signs of seeing the issue this way, however, which unfortunately sets the stage down the road for renewed tensions between Washington and Tokyo. </span></span> </span>

The plan is critical to rally support for the alliance and the rest of our troops stationed in Japan – It’s key to Asian stability
Barkdoll ‘06
[Timothy Barkdoll, Commander in the U.S. Navy & Masters of Strategic Studies, “The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Welcoming a New Japan,” March 15th 2006, USAWC Strategy Research Project, U.S. Army War College]
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The security alliance has served as the cornerstone of U.S.-Japan diplomatic relations for over five decades and the strategic location of U.S. forces in Japan is critical to protecting shared economic, diplomatic, and political interests in the Asia-Pacific region. </span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Therefore, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it is in the best interest of the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and Japan to engage in the reconfiguration of the alliance to produce a more robust, flexible, and symmetric bilateral security arrangement </span></span>that is capable of securing common national interests well into the 21st Century. Recent proposals for alliance transformation, realignment of U.S. forces, and Japanese constitutional revision indicate that the United States and Japan have taken a significant leap towards securing that future. Application of the following recommendations is required to realize the successful transformation of the alliance. Implement SCC-Proposed Transformational Changes <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U.S.-Japan security alliance needs to be reconfigured so that the bilateral partners participate in a more symmetric relationship</span></span>. The end product of the transformation is a fully functioning alliance in which each nation assumes equal roles and balanced distribution of responsibilities in pursuit of shared national strategic interests. As new and complex security threats emerge at an ever increasing rate, the United States, Japan, and the <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">alliance can no</span></span> 22 <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">longer afford to rely on incremental growth spurred by the latest crisis. </span></span>The Japanese government currently lacks the policy mechanisms needed to execute timely and effective security cooperation with the U.S. in response to the rapidly evolving threat environment. Wholesale implementation of the proposed transformation, U.S. force structure realignments, and Japanese constitutional revision is critical in determining the future relevance of the alliance. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The key to a stronger alliance is the successful execution of the transformation as proposed by the SCC. A successful transformation depends on a more robust Japanese military posture, implementation of flexible Japanese policy mechanisms to facilitate a more reliable security cooperation with the U.S., and an elevated Japanese presence in Asia-Pacific and globally</span></span>. Required changes to Japan’s military posture and legislative procedures necessitate constitutional revision meeting the approval of Japan’s popular vote. Unfortunately, there is a decreasing tolerance among the Japanese people for the inconveniences associated with U.S. military presence.136 The proposed realignment of U.S. forces in Japan is intended to ease the burden of host nation support on the Japanese public and provide Tokyo the public support platform to seek constitutional revision. Following the October 2005 SCC conference, Secretary of State Donald Rumsfeld summarized the U.S. perspective on these issues: Japan has the second largest economy on the face of the Earth. The people of Japan benefit greatly from the international system. Clearly Japan has an interest in the success of the international system. With an interest in the success of that system which benefits the Japanese people, it seems to me it is appropriate for Japan to find ways in the 21st Century that they can contribute to making the system successful 137 Rally Japanese Public Support <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Rallying Japanese public support for a more capable and proactive SDF, constitutional revision, and continued support for U.S. forces in Japan is critical to the future of the alliance. As the intolerance for inconveniences associated with host nation support has gained significant momentum in the national political arena, it is increasingly difficult for Japanese politicians to convince their constituents that they sacrifice for the benefit of Japan’s national security.</span></span> 138 Therefore, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it is imperative that the bilateral partners continue to work together to educate the Japanese people, especially in the cities and prefectures that host U.S. bases, that there exists an important interdependence between the alliance, the U.S. military presence in Japan, and Japan’s national interests</span></span>. The message to the Japanese people must emphasize that the proposed changes and military operations are necessary for Japan’s national security and are not being considered to simply acquiesce bilateral security interests of the United States. The 23 perspective of the argument used is critical.139 For its part, as Japan struggles with remnants of its pacifist culture, antimilitarism, and growing public discontent for support of U.S. forces, the United States must respect and formally acknowledge that reexamination of Article 9 and ratification of a new constitution is a domestic issue to be decided exclusively by the people of Japan. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Public support is sometimes best obtained when rhetoric is supported by real action. Proposed U.S. force structure realignment should help alleviate some Japanese concerns for noise, pollution, safety, and an expanding U.S. military footprint. However, Okinawa</span></span>, as it has been since 1995, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">will continue to be the epicenter of domestic discontent over support provided to U.S. forces</span></span>. The transfer of 7,000 Marines to Guam, further consolidation of the remaining forces, shared use of U.S. military installations with the SDF, and the return of substantial land tracts to Japanese sovereignty will do little to alleviate Okinawa’s opposition to the proposed Futenma resolution. Since the October 2005 SCC Futenma relocation plan includes the reclamation of a portion of Oura Bay, a contentious issue in the original proposal, tensions will remain high in the Okinawa prefecture. Balancing Okinawan desires with operational capabilities will prove to be a difficult task but one of critical importance considering the deterrence, crisis response, regional stability, and international security provided for by the U.S. forces forward deployed to Okinawa. Conclusion The stability of the Asia-Pacific region is of critical importance to the national interests of both Japan and the United States. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This stability is now challenged by new threats associated with North Korea, Taiwan, and China. The U.S.-Japan security alliance has evolved as the cornerstone of regional stability </span></span>and remains the best mechanism by which the world’s two leading economies can pursue overlapping national interests. Recently, the U.S. and Japanese governments have made remarkable progress toward reconfiguring the alliance. However, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the materialization of a New Japan, one that assumes a more prominent role in its self-defense, regional stability, and global influence, along with full implementation of the transformational changes for the alliance, requires mustering popular support</span></span> for an unprecedented revision of Japan’s constitution and, more specifically, Article 9. The future of the alliance will depend upon the popular vote of the Japanese people reflecting their view of how critical the Japan-U.S. security alliance is to securing Japan’s national interests. Kazuyoshi Umemoto, the Deputy Director General in the Japanese Foreign Ministry’s North American Affairs Bureau, astutely observed that <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">“[t]he deterrence and capabilities of the</span></span> 24 <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">alliance are not measured solely by the number of U.S. forces stationed in Japan, but by the combination of political will, local support, and capability of working closely together.”</span></span>140 Japan and the United States have demonstrated the political will and an unprecedented capability to work closely together. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The future strength of the alliance will therefore depend on local Japanese support for the alliance and constitutional revision – with Okinawa presenting the most significant challenge in that pursuit. </span></span></span>

__Third, effectiveness__ – Even if the alliance doesn’t formally collapse – the Futenma controversy will prevent focus on regional security issues
Klingner ‘09
[Bruce Klingner, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia @ The Heritage Foundation’s Asian Studies Center, Former Chief of CIA’s Korea Branch, “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment,” December 16th 2009, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/12/US-Should-Stay-Firm-on-Implementation-of-Okinawa-Force-Realignment#_ftn1]]] AP
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Futenma controversy has caused the Obama and Hatoyama administrations' relationship to get off on the wrong foot. Frustration, suspicion, and anger are increasing in both capitals, threatening to create a crisis of confidence. The FRF controversy has</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">, in the words of one U.S. official, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">"sucked the air out of the room" by redirecting alliance attention away from strategically important regional and global security issues. The Futenma dispute has already harmed the bilateral alliance. The extent of the damage will depend on the responses of both countries. The alliance is not yet in crisis, but if the situation is mishandled, the alliance could be headed for one.</span></span> The U.S. and Japan need to keep in mind that the alliance is critically important for both countries and that the contentious issues are only one part of the broader relationship. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington and Tokyo need to work together to reduce the current tension level and to refocus on transforming the alliance to address security challenges. </span></span></span>

The U.S. should scale back the marine presence on Okinawa to just the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit – That’s necessary to prevent a backlash against all of our bases in Japan
O’Hanlon ‘01
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” March/April 2001, Foreign Affairs, Lexis] AP
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The United States keeps nearly 20,000 marines on Okinawa</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">. These troops are an important part of the 100,000 U.S. military personnel based or deployed in the western Pacific region. In light of ongoing security concerns in the Taiwan Strait and on the Korean Peninsula, the Clinton administration felt it important to establish a floor below which U.S. military strength in the area would not drop. This goal was accomplished by the Pentagon's 1995 Nye report -- designed to articulate post -- Cold War U.S. military strategy for the Asia-Pacific -- which found that maintaining 100,000 service members in the region was an important symbol of sustained U.S. commitment. But six years later, that number needs rethinking. About <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">half of the marines on Okinawa are deployed there for several months. That makes Okinawa by far the largest regular Marine Corps commitment -- in fact, forces there at any given time usually exceed all other worldwide Marine Corps deployments </span></span>combined. Since the preparation and conduct of these missions is at the heart of the corps' raison d'etre, the marines rarely complain about such deployment. In addition, the marines' presence on Okinawa saves U.S. taxpayers money, since Japan foots much of the bill for operations and base needs. But <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the advantages of the deployment -- a diplomatic show of U.S. commitment to the Asia-Pacific, the lack of Marine Corps opposition, and its cost-effectiveness -- do not add up to a strategic rationale for keeping the marines there</span></span>. And the Okinawa mission carries downsides as well that are not commonly recognized. The marines, with their expeditionary philosophy and capabilities, provide too valuable an asset to squander on a deployment that is not militarily or strategically essential. By default<span style="color: black;">, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">putting them on Okinawa effectively consumes operational resources that could be used elsewhere</span></span>: peace operations in the Balkans (to give the Army a break, for example), a humanitarian intervention or peace operation (should another genocide occur in Africa or elsewhere), exercises with foreign militaries, or responses to crises. In addition, the <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">marines on Okinawa are not so much forward-deployed as they are marooned. Okinawa itself is not at risk, and Japanese forces have the capacity to defend it even if it were. Furthermore, the three amphibious ships based in Japan can transport only the 2,000 marines of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit</span></span><span style="color: black;">, which patrols the region, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">to areas of actual threat elsewhere in the Pacific. The other 15,000 marines on Okinawa could not quickly deploy </span></span>elsewhere with their equipment. In the event of a war, these troops could be flown to Korea without their heavy weaponry to help in noncombatant evacuations or similar missions. But<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> they would have no advantage over infantry soldiers airlifted from the United States </span></span>or local South Korean infantry troops.<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Keeping so many marines on Okinawa also places a major strain on U.S.-Japan relations</span></span>, as George Washington University Professor Mike Mochizuki has argued and as an increasingly broad swath of the U.S. defense community now recognizes. In terms of acreage, three-quarters of U.S. bases in Japan are on Okinawa, taking up almost 20 percent of the land of an island that is small and, as home to more than a million people, densely populated even by Japanese standards. Changes to the base structure agreed to in the 1990s will reduce the acreage of the U.S. bases on Okinawa by only about a fifth, even if they are carried out in full. (Local resistance to moving the marines' Futenma air base has stymied efforts to enact much of the plan.) Meanwhile, marine flights continue in and out of Futenma -- located right in the middle of Ginowan City -- with the associated risks of accidents. Polls in recent years showed that more than 80 percent of all Japanese consider the Okinawa arrangement undesirable and unfair to local citizens. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">By trying to hold on to all of its bases in Japan, the U</span></span><span style="color: black;">nited </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span><span style="color: black;">tates </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">risks causing a backlash and ultimately losing everything, including those facilities with the greatest military benefit for crises in Korea, the Taiwan Strait, or elsewhere -- notably, the Kadena Air Force base on Okinawa and U.S. Navy and Air Force facilities on Japan's main islands. Washington should therefore scale back the number of marines on Okinawa to about 5,000. The 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit should remain</span></span>, as should enough forces to maintain storage and staging facilities for use in a crisis. But most other marines should go elsewhere in the region or return home, and most Marine Corps facilities and training ranges should be returned to Japanese use. Compensating steps should be taken, notably increased storage of U.S. military supplies on Okinawa or on ships in Japanese ports to facilitate rapid deployments in the region. Tokyo might well pay for the necessary equipment and many of the redeployment costs. Ideally, Japan would also increase its direct military contributions to the alliance. But major reductions in the marines on Okinawa need not await the normalization of Japanese security policy. </span>

__Scenario One – East Asia__

A strong alliance key to create lasting stability in East Asia—bolsters our deterrent capabilities and allows for regional interdependence—only cooperation can address all major threats
Rapp ‘04
[<span style="color: black;">William E. Rapp, Former Council on Foreign Relations—Hitachi International Affairs Fellow @ The Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Ph.D. in International Relations from Stanford University, </span>“[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=367|Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance]],” January 1st 2004, [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">This monograph began by making the assertion that <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the alliance can and must become more than simply a narrow defense pact if both the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and Japan want to be successful in shaping the security future of East Asia in ways that support peace, prosperity, and the growth of democratic and human values. In the next several decades, East Asia in particular will need the stability and positive character of Japan and the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">working in close concert.</span></span> There is a distinct need for positive complementarities in the relationship. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This power sharing could result in an alliance well suited to handle</span></span>, in a positive manner, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the most important challenge of the ﬁrst half of the 21st century―the character of the rise of China to superpower status. Tight coordination of policy and increased military capability will vastly increase the deterrence credibility of the alliance.</span></span> As Diet Representative Eisei Ito noted, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">“The best way to deal with China is for Japan and the U.S. to be partners in the truest sense and consult closely and frankly over policy toward that country.”</span></span> 207 <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Working together with one voice may be the best means of engaging China in the coming decades, preventing the opening of an exploitable rift, precluding the forceful reuniﬁcation of Taiwan and the mainland, and creating a path that both facilitates Chinese national interests and the peace and prosperity of the entire region.</span></span> 208 <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">North Korea and its quest for nuclear weapons represent a salient opportunity for the alliance to act in concert for the stability of Northeast Asia. No resolution of the current crisis on the Peninsula will be possible without both Japan and the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">working together within an agreed strategic framework. In addition, the powerful American and Japanese navies can help to guarantee the maintenance of the vital sea lines of communication</span></span> (SLOC) <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">running through Southeast and East Asia.</span></span> 209 About 52 percent of all commercial sea cargo (59 percent of supertankers) transit this region amid thorny and unresolved issues of territorial boundaries, intrastate governance problems, and piracy. 210 For Japan, the routes are even more important―over 85 percent of the oil Japan imports sails through these sea lanes. 211 <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Piracy in South and Southeast Asian shipping lanes remains a major hazard, especially in Indonesian waters and the Straits of Malacca.</span></span> 212 <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">At present, Japan is committed to protect only SLOCs out to 1,000 miles from Osaka and Tokyo.</span></span> 213 <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This arc of committed sea lane protection does not even extend all the way through the vital Bashi Channel to the southern end of Taiwan and the northern entrance to the South China Sea.</span></span> Increasing this Japanese maritime reach through port calls, freedom of navigation cruises into the Indian Ocean, and combined exercises should be encouraged. 214 <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Aiding in the provision of unfettered SLOCs, which beneﬁt most of Southeast and East Asia, also may reassure Asia about the future role of the Japanese military, thus increasing Japan’s ability to comprehensively engage ASEAN. Working in concert, the two alliance partners could expand their tight cooperation into associated security realms within the region. WMD and ballistic missile nonproliferation, cyber-terrorism, and counternarcotics are just three examples of potentially fruitful venues for increased cooperation. Ideally, the alliance would continue to deepen into a multidimensional force for peace and prosperity in East Asia.</span></span> The Proliferation Security Initiative hopefully is a harbinger of further expansion beyond the original scope of the alliance. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Finally, the alliance can provide the continuity of peace and trust necessary for the growth of liberalism throughout the region. Success for the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and Japan will increasingly be measured in terms of an increased community of vibrant, paciﬁc, free-market democracies in Asia. Making the two publics aware of the idealistic beneﬁts of the alliance will make more headway toward acceptance of a deepening partnership than simply focusing on the alliance’s role in power politics in the region.</span></span> Creating the conditions for that liberal development and tamping down the anticipated frictions that will arise along the way can best be accomplished in tandem. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In the long run, this liberalism backed by the concerted power of the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and Japan will bring lasting stability to the region. </span></span></span>

Numerous factors make the breakout of conflict more likely than __anywhere__ else – a strong alliance is key to check
Ikenberry and Mastanduno ‘03
[J. John Ikenberry, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton University, Michael Mastanduno, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences & Nelson A. Rockefeller Professor of Government @ Dartmouth College, “International Relations Theory and The Asia Pacific,” 2003, Pg. 25-27] AP
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Many scholars and analysts argue that in the twenty-first century international instability is more likely in East Asia than in Western Europe. Whether one looks at variables favored by realists or liberals, East Asia </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">appears </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">more </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">dangerous</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. The region is characterized by major shifts in the balance of power, skewed distributions of economic and political power</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> within and <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">between countries, political and cultural heterogeneity, growing but still relatively low levels of intraregional economic interdependence, anemic security institutionalization, and widespread territorial disputes that combine natural resource issues with postcolonial nationalism.' If security dilemma theory is applied to East Asia, the chance for spirals of tension in the area seems great</span></span>, particularly in the absence of a U.S. military presence in the region. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The theory states that, in an uncertain and anarchic international system, mistrust between two or more potential adversaries can lead each side to take precautionary and defensively motivated measures that are perceived as offensive threats. </span></span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">This can lead to countermeasures in kind, thus ratcheting up regional tensions, reducing security, and creating self-fulfilling prophecies about the danger of one's security environment.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> If we look at the variables that might fuel security dilemma dynamics, East Asia appears quite dangerous<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. From a standard realist perspective, not only could dramatic and unpredictable changes in the distribution of capabilities in East Asia increase un-certainty and mistrust, but the importance of sea-lanes and secure energy supplies to almost all regional actors could also encourage a </span></span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">destabilizing competition </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">to develop power-projection capabilities on the seas and in the skies.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> Because they are perceived as offensive threats, power-projection forces are more likely to spark spirals of tension than weapons that can defend only a nation's homeland.' <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Perhaps even more important in East Asia than these more commonly considered variables are psychological factors (such as the historically based mistrust and animosity among regional actors)</span></span> and political geography issues relating to the Taiwan question, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">which make even defensive weapons</span></span> in the region <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">appear threatening</span></span> for Chinese security. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">One way to ameliorate security dilemmas and prevent spirals of tension is to have an outside arbiter play a policing role, lessening the perceived need for regional actors to begin destabilizing security competitions. For this reason, most scholars</span></span>, regardless of theoretical persuasion, seem to <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">agree with U.S. officials and local leaders that a major factor in containing potential tensions in East Asia is the continuing presence of the U.S. military, particularly in Japan. The historically based mistrust among the actors in Northeast Asia is so intense that not only is the maintenance of a U.S. presence in Japan critical, but the form the U.S.-Japan alliance takes also has potentially important implications for regional stability.</span></span> </span>

Most likely scenario for __nuclear escalation__
Nye et al. 2K
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor Emeritus @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, [[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]]
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Major war in Europe is inconceivable for at least a generation, but the prospects for conflict in Asia are far from remote. The region features some of the world’s largest and most modern armies, nuclear-armed major powers, and several nuclear-capable states. Hostilities that could directly involve the United States in a major conflict could occur at a moment’s notice on the Korean peninsula and in the Taiwan Strait. The Indian subcontinent is a major flashpoint. In each area, war has the potential of nuclear escalation. In addition, lingering turmoil in Indonesia, the world’s fourth-largest nation, threatens stability in Southeast Asia.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> The United States is tied to the region by a series of bilateral security alliances that remain the region’s de facto security architecture. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In this promising but also potentially dangerous setting, the U.S.-Japan bilateral relationship is more important than ever. With the world’s second-largest economy and a well equipped and competent military, and as our democratic ally, Japan remains the keystone of the U.S. involvement in Asia. The U.S.-Japan alliance is central to America’s global security strategy.</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: medium;">Scenario Two - China</span>
== == 
== == 
==<span style="font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal;">China Rising Peacefully - Stronger influence in East Asia inevitable - Containment guarantees Conflict</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal;">Bandow, '09</span>
<span class="cardChar">[Doug Bandow is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, 2/24/09 “Balancing Beijing” http://nationalinterest.org/article/balancing-beijing-3021, SM] </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Yet the United States and Soviet Union spent most of the cold war sparring for influence in the Third World to little meaningful effect. Money was spent and lives were lost, but in the end it didn't much matter who was numero uno in Vientiane, Kinshasa, Luanda or Managua. It matters even less today. As my Cato colleague Ben Friedman puts it, "<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There is little that China can do </span></span>in Africa<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> to make it stronger or to damage U.S. interests</span></span>." <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If Beijing wishes to invest heavily in places with little geopolitical heft, why should the United States object?</span></span> Even more important, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington needs to back away from any kind of arms race with the PRC. </span></span>The latest Pentagon Joint Operating Environment 2008 ominously declared that while Beijing doesn't "emphasize the future strictly in military terms," the Chinese do calculate "that eventually their growing strength will allow them to dominate Asia and the Western Pacific." The annual Pentagon assessment of PRC military spending appears to show Beijing's conscious effort to build a force capable of deterring American intervention against China in East Asia. As a result, Aaron Friedberg, until recently Vice President Cheney's chief foreign-policy adviser, worries that the balance of power "is beginning to shift in way that, under the wrong set of circumstances, could increase the risk of miscalculation and conflict." Yet the question is, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">what balance of power? Beijing poses no threat to America's homeland or even Pacific possessions and will not do so for decades, if ever</span></span>. The <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">United States possesses a far stronger military to start-eleven carrier groups to none, for instance-spends five or more times as much as the PRC on defense</span></span> (excluding the costs of Afghanistan and Iraq) <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and is allied with most important industrial states in Asia and Europe</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There is no Chinese threat or potential threat to Americ</span></span>a<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. At issue is relative influence in East Asia and the security of Washington's friends in that region. Yet the PRC so far has been assertive rather than aggressive and those nations</span></span>, particularly <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Japan</span></span> and South Korea, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">could do much more individually and collectively for regional security</span></span>. Washington should not hesitate to sell arms to friendly states, including Taiwan, despite Chinese protests, but should leave them with responsibility for their own defense. Of course, a policy of continued restraint by Beijing will make it far easier for the United States to back away. In any case<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, there is little that Washington can do, at least at acceptable cost, to maintain U.S. dominance along China's border</span></span>s, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as the PRC-whose economy already ranks number two or three, depending on the measure, in the world-continues to grow</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington would have to devote an ever larger amount of resources to the military, in the midst of economic crisis, to ensure its ability to overcome far more limited Chinese capabilities</span></span>. Even then, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Beijing is unlikely to forever accept U.S. hegemony. Confrontation if not conflict would be likely. The better option would be to temper America's geopolitical pretensions and accept a more influential PRC in its own region</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China will grow in power, irrespective of Washington's wishes</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">America's chief objective should be to ensure that this rise is peaceful, as Beijing has promised. U.S.-China diplomatic relations passed the thirty-year mark last fall</span></span>. The relationship has survived great challenges and is likely to face even greater ones in the future. But despite inevitable differences between the two nations, much depends upon strengthening their ties. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The twenty-first century will turn out far differently-and positively-if America and the PRC prove willing to accommodate each other's economic and geopolitical ambitions. </span></span></span>

Unipolar management of China will inevitable fail – the US should allow regional powers to engage China – US containment efforts force China to rise violently
Bandow ‘09
[Doug Bandow is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, 1/12/09 “First Among Equals” [[http://nationalinterest.org/article/first-among-equals-2968]], SM]
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">What kind of a power is Beijing likely to become? <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Chinese policymakers emphasize that they plan a "peaceful rise</span></span>," but their ambitions loom large. Argues //JOE 2008//, while the People's Republic of <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China doesn't "emphasize the future strictly in military terms," the Chinese do calculate "that eventually their growing strength will allow them to dominate Asia and the Western Pacific." </span></span>More ominously, argues the Joint Forces Command, "<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Chinese are working hard to ensure that if there is a military confrontation with the United States sometime in the future, they will be ready</span></span>." Yet this assessment is far less threatening than it sounds. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The PRC is not capable (nor close to being capable) of threatening vital U.S. interests-conquering American territory, threatening our liberties and constitutional system, cutting off U.S. trade with the rest of the world, dominating Eurasia and turning that rich resource base against America.</span></span> After all, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the United States has the world's most sophisticated and powerful nuclear arsenal; China's intercontinental delivery capabilities are quite limited. America has eleven carrier groups while Beijing has none. Washington is allied with most every other industrialized state and a gaggle of the PRC's neighbors. China is surrounded by nations with which it has been at war in recent decades</span></span>: Russia, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam and India. Indeed, today <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Beijing must concentrate on defending itself</span></span>. In pointing to the PRC's investment in submarines, the //JOE 2008// acknowledges: "The <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">emphasis on nuclear submarines and an increasingly global Navy in particular, underlines worries that the U.S. Navy possesses the ability to shut down China's energy imports</span></span> of oil-80% of which go through the straits of Malacca." The <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Chinese government is focused on preventing American intervention against it in its own neighborhood, not on contesting U.S. dominance elsewhere in the world</span></span>, let alone in North America. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington almost certainly will be unable to thwart Beijing</span></span>, at least at acceptable cost. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China needs spend only a fraction of America's military outlays to develop a deterrent capability-nuclear sufficiency to forestall nuclear coercion, submarine and missile forces to sink U.S. carriers, and anti-satellite and cyber-warfare weapons to blind and disrupt American forces. </span></span>Washington could ill afford to intervene in East Asia against the PRC so equipped. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Such a military is well within China's reach</span></span>. Notes JOE 2008: "by conservative calculations it is easily possible that by <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the 2030s China could modernize its military to reach a level of approximately one quarter of current U.S. capabilities without any significant impact on its economy.</span></span>" Thus, absent the unlikely economic and social collapse of China, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in not too many years Beijing will able to enforce its "no" to America</span></span>. Washington must reconsider its response. U.S. taxpayers already spend as much as everyone else on earth on the military. It's a needless burden, since <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">promiscuous intervention overseas does not make Americans safer</span></span>. To maintain today's overwhelming edge over progressively more powerful militaries in China, Russia, India and other states would require disproportionately larger military outlays in the United States. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It's a game Washington cannot win</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">A better alternative would be to more carefully delineate vital interests, while treating lesser issues as matters for diplomacy rather than military action</span></span>. Equally important, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the American government should inform its allies that their security is in the first instance their responsibility. Washington should act as an offshore balancer to prevent domination of Eurasia by a hostile hegemon. </span></span>But <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the United States should not attempt to coercively micro-manage regional relations. Stepping back today would reduce pressure on Beijing to engage in a sustained arms buildup to limit U.S. intervention in the future. If the PRC nevertheless moved forward, its neighbors could take note and respond accordingly. Encouraging China to keep its rise peaceful is in everyone's interest</span></span>. Despite the many challenges facing U.S. policy, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">America retains an extraordinarily advantageous position in today's global order</span></span>. Eventually, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the United States is likely to fall to merely first among many-the globe's leading state, but no longer the hyper- or unipower, as America has been called</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The sooner Washington begins preparing for this new role, the smoother will be the transition</span></span>. </span>

Even if relative indicators show U.S. preeminence is sustainable – our regional influence will inevitably diminish – only increased bilateral cooperation with Japan and engagement with multilateral institutions in Asia can maintain U.S. influence
Nye et al. ‘07
[Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies,“The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">We would be remiss if we did not also acknowledge that one of the most important variables affecting East Asia for good or for ill in the future relates to the positioning of the United States. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Though there is little doubt that in virtually every measure of national power, the United States’ preeminence will be sustained through 2020, we cannot discount the possibility that our relative influence for shaping events in Asia will be diminished over time. </span></span>This is far from certain, but <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in order to keep a leadership role in the region, U.S. policymakers must remain vigilant to encroaching challenges to our influence. In other words, U.S. advantages in Asia are impermanent and should be treated as such. First, the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">must view itself as an Asia-Pacific power and decide to take part in all aspects of life in Asia. At the best of times, the United States is seen by many Asians as a capricious power, too often driven by narrow domestic interests and ideological imperatives. But even worse in the minds of many is a tendency for prolonged inattention to Asia. </span></span>Arguably, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates presently <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">suffers from a strategic preoccupation with another region of the world. If engagement in Asia remains episodic</span></span>, or lacks sufficient senior-level involvement on the part of U.S. officials, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a transition in the region’s power hierarchy is possible. </span></span>Even absent precipitous events, a gradual erosion of U.S. influence could occur if China continues to extend its reach and if the region as a whole loses confidence in the staying power of the United States. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The challenges for the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">to remain active in the life of Asia are many. There are serious questions as to whether or not the United States will have the fiscal and military wherewithal to operate effectively in the region by 2020. </span></span>Large budget deficits and a growing national debt, military overstretch, and the press of domestic requirements (everything from health care and social security for an aging population to the need to rehabilitate public education) all could impact U.S. capabilities for influencing Asia, irrespective of Washington’s intentions. Nevertheless, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">there are solutions available for policymakers in the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">who are determined to retain influence in Asia</span></span>. But only <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">part of the solution will be found in the deft management of bilateral and multilateral relationships in the region. A sober-minded self-awareness with respect to our challenges is also required as we go forward. We must not only work to get our own economic house in order but must address our military requirements. We noted Japan’s ability to bring soft power to the problems of the region and beyond. We recognize the need to improve our ability to bring both hard power and soft power to the table. The Asia-Pacific region is geographically dominated by great oceans, seas, and strategic straits.</span></span> It is a naval service theater, which will require the United States to continue to pursue military procurements, as well as adopt the appropriate associated military strategies that fit a naval service theater. </span>

Our Marine presence uniquely signals a strategy of military dominance – creates the perception that we are preparing for a land war with China – overwhelms alt causes
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mochizuki ‘96</span></span>
[Mike, Ph.D., Japan-U.S. Relations Chair in Memory of Gaston Sigur at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, 3-17-96“Slow-Motion Crisis; China's Missiles Sent an Urgent Mes-sage: Our Asia Policy Needs Fixing,” The Washington Post]
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">However, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">just because the symptoms will recede does not mean the underlying problem will go away</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China</span></span>, put down by the West for two centuries, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is cognizant of its growing strength and intends to be recognized for it. It also has territorial disputes with many neighbors besides Taiwan, and a perception that the United States wants to box it in militarily and politically</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Similar conditions</span></span> -- between the established powers of Russia, Britain and France on one side, and a rising Germany on the other -- helped <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">produce World War I</span></span>. Under these circumstances, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the trick is for the United States and allies, most notably Japan, to deter China -- while also reassuring Beijing that we are not picking a fight and that we recognize its rightful place at the table of great powers</span></span>.Getting this policy right requires attention, creativity and some new ideas. China's action will at least have been well-timed if it gives Clinton and Hashimoto a strong sense of purpose about reinvigorating the alliance.Unfortunately, most members of the U.S. and Japanese foreign policy establishments would rather use the summit to endorse the status quo. They take it as gospel that the United States must maintain about 45,000 U.S. troops in Japan and 100,000 in Asia because otherwise Japan and the rest of the region might slip into angst and insecurity. Clinton's own Pentagon officials recently reaffirmed this conventional wisdom with a major strategic review.But <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">there are risks to sticking with the status quo</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Tension in the U.S.-Japan alliance, revealed so starkly on Okinawa</span></span> last fall after U.S. servicemen raped a 12-year-old Japanese schoolgirl, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has been developing ever since the end of the Cold War and could easily worsen</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Japanese remain pro-American and in favor of the bilateral security relationship. But substantial and growing majorities believe that U.S. bases and military personnel in their countr</span></span>y, essentially still at Cold War levels, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">should be reduced</span></span>.True, the Japanese-American alliance weathered tough times in the past, surviving the Vietnam War and other major challenges. But in those days, the nearby Soviet threat helped the allies to say they were sorry and make up. Moreover, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">past crises often led to changes in the way the alliance worked -- and this one should too.</span></span>At this point, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">reinvigorating the alliance could best be accomplished by changing the configuration of U.S. forces in Japan, including a reduction in the number of Marine combat units on Okinawa</span></span>, while asking Japan to play a more forceful role in handling the fundamental future tasks of the alliance.The United States and Japan should distinguish between their vital interests and their important yet less-than-vital interests in Asia. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Defense of the open oceans, sea lanes and existing U.S. allies -- Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Thailand -- are the chief causes worth fighting for</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The United States and Japan should also be prepared to contest an unprovoked Chinese attack on Taiwan or the islands of the South China Sea.</span></span> But <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">all of these scenarios except war on the Korean peninsula would be addressed chiefly with air and naval forces, not Marines. </span></span>As <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">for war against North Korea, the chief U.S. responses would involve its ground and air forces already in South Korea, air and naval forces in Japan and reinforcements from the United States</span></span>.Other <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">potential disputes with China should not be addressed militaril</span></span>y. We should follow another Nixon maxim, announced in his speech on Guam in 1969, that <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the United States has no long-term interest in fighting land wars in Asia.</span></span> By <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">committing ourselves to what would be primarily a maritime defense strategy, we would deter China from attacking our fundamental interests in the region without reinforcing its two-century old sense of encirclement and subjugation</span></span>.<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If China some day caused military trouble</span></span> in Indochina or Mongolia or other parts of mainland Asia, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington and Tokyo could establish collective defense accords with other countries in the region to prevent any further encroachments.</span></span> But <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">these are matters where hyper-vigilance now is unneeded</span></span>, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and is only likely to make things worse.Taking some Marine combat forces home would greatly lessen the strains on Japan's smallest prefecture, now host to nearly 30,000 of the 45,000 American troops in Japan</span></span>. For example, at the summit Clinton might agree to bring home one or two battalions out of the five typically there, including several thousand troops. Since there are only enough amphibious ships in Sasebo, Japan, for one battalion to be transported, this decision would hardly affect our rapid-response capabilities in the region. Indeed, Clinton and Hashimoto could even improve those capabilities by basing one or more additional amphibious ships in Japan. (The Marines' remaining 35 or so amphibious ships are at present based in the continental United States.)Japan too should take on new responsibilities. While reaffirming its one-China policy,<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> it should publicly and vocally reinforce the U.S. position that an unprovoked (or lightly provoked) Chinese attack on Taiwan would be grounds for extreme concern and joint action</span></span>. In the military sphere, it should in the short term pass laws allowing it to provide substantial rear support to U.S. forces in times of crisis or war in the Asia-Pacific region. Those laws might be challenged in court, but Japanese politics today are healthy enough to handle whatever outcome this legal process might generate, including if necessary a national debate over modifying constitutional limits on Japan's military activities in wartime. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In the longer term, Japan needs to become more of an equal military partner to the United States.</span></span> Areas for possible collaboration include expanded roles in peace operations, joint naval patrols with the 7th Fleet, and improved integration of communications systems with U.S. ships and planes to permit rapid sharing of targeting data in the event of war.<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In these tense times in Asian politics, restructuring the U.S.-Japan alliance would send a properly-mixed message to China -- that the United States is generally uninterested in putting land forces up against China's borders</span></span>, but <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">that we and our allies will, if necessary, fight to defend our core interests in the region</span></span>. And, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">by ensuring or even enhancing the Marines' ability to deploy quickly out of Okinawa, it would hardly give North Korea reason to cheer</span></span>.<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Rather than simply forget this year's March madness in the Taiwan Straits, we should get our post-Cold War Asian security relationships in shape to reduce the chance of another crisis.</span></span> </span>

The plan allows for regional countries to engage China – it restructures the relationship with Japan – allowing for a more assertive Japanese foreign policy
Ikenberry & Kupchan ‘10
[G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton, Charles A. Kupchan, Professor of International Affairs @ Georgetown, Senior Fellow @ The Council on Foreign Relations, “A New Japan, a New Asia,” January 21st 2010, [[http://www.cfr.org/publication/21256/new_japan_a_new_asia.html]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">This week marks the 50th anniversary of the U.S.-Japan alliance, but the Obama administration seems sincerely flummoxed as to whether to bemoan or commemorate the occasion. On the one hand, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U.S. officials have reacted with </span></span>considerable <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">discomfort to the more independent </span></span>and assertive <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">policies of the new Japanese government. </span></span>Secretary of Defense Robert <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Gates called Tokyo's desire to reopen debate about the location of U.S. bases in Okinawa "counterproductive" </span></span>and the alternatives to current plans "politically untenable and operationally unworkable." On the other hand, President <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama observed during his visit to Tokyo </span></span>in November that <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U.S.-Japan relationship must be one of "equals" and "not a senior-vs-junior partnership." And </span></span>Deputy Secretary of State James <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Steinberg </span></span>last week <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">welcomed the </span></span>"expression of Japan's vibrant democracy" and the <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">opportunity to "conduct an open dialogue on shaping the future of the alliance." As the Obama administration struggles to sort out its Japan policy, it should tilt decidedly toward welcoming rather than rebuffing the fresh approach of the government of </span></span>Prime Minister Yukio <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Hatoyama. While a cold response to his more assertive foreign policy is predictable</span></span>--Tokyo since World War II has consistently deferred to its U.S. protector--<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it is sorely misguided. In questioning the location of the Okinawa bases and seeking a relationship with China not entirely mediated by Washington, the new government is not attempting to demote Japan's alliance with the United States. </span></span>On the contrary, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it is seeking to update the alliance to the new political and strategic environment in the region. </span></span>Rather than warning Tokyo to return to the fold, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington should work with the Hatoyama government to forge a healthier and more mature relationship. </span></span>The election last year of the Democratic Party represents a watershed in Japanese politics, bringing to an end the post-war reign of the Liberal Democratic Party. In breaking the lock that the L.D.P. had on Japanese politics, the D.P.J. has cleared the way for pressures long pent up to rise to the surface. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Many voters long for Japan to become a "normal" country - one that assumes more geopolitical responsibility and conducts a foreign policy made in Tokyo</span></span>, not Washington. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Mr. Hatoyama has pledged to address citizens' concerns about the social ills that U.S. bases have brought to their communities. And he has vowed to cut back the power of entrenched bureaucrats, who for decades preserved the status quo on foreign policy. Among older Japanese, for whom the U.S.-Japan alliance enjoyed a sacred status, this status quo was more than acceptable. But younger Japanese have begun to ask tough questions</span></span> - to which Mr. Hatoyama is seeking answers. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Tokyo's search for a more autonomous foreign policy is also a reflection of a changing strategic environment. China's rise is reshaping the region. It has become Japan's largest export market. Beijing has discovered the merits of regional engagement, opening the door to a new level of dialogue with Japan. Meanwhile, North Korea's nuclear program has provided a new urgency to regional dialogue, encouraging Japan to step out from behind the shadow of U.S. power. Japan is in many respects beginning to travel down the road taken by Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. With the end of the Cold War, the European Union both quickened its pace of regional integration and yearned for more autonomy from Washington. Germany and France even led the charge against the Iraq war </span></span>in 2003, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and the trans-Atlantic alliance emerged the stronger for it. Europe no longer grumbles about the excesses of U.S. power. And the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">enjoys the benefits of a more independent and capable Europe that is shouldering a heavy burden in Afghanistan, leading the effort to curb climate change, and helping to stabilize the global economy. Japan needs to similarly update its alliance with the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates, getting a measure of distance from Washington, but <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ultimately making the partnership stronger and more mature. Japan has the potential to be a regional leader on peacekeeping, foreign aid and clean energy technology. As Japan deepens its bilateral relationship with China, the two countries may finally have the opportunity to replicate the kind of rapprochement achieved by France and Germany after World War II. In the same way that Europeans built a self-sustaining regional peace, Japan should capitalize on the stability afforded by its alliance with the U.S. to make a push for Sino-Japanese reconciliation and regional integration. A more assertive and independent Japan promises to do much more for East Asia and the United States than a Japan that defers to Washington. </span></span>It is past time for Washington and Tokyo to bring the alliance into the 21st century. </span>

An assertive Japanese foreign policy allows for a multilateral balance of power in Asia– creates regional peace and stability
Sukma ‘10
[Rizal Sukma, Executive Director @ The Centre for Strategic & International Studies, Ph.D. in International Relations from The London School of Economics & Politial Science, “East Asia need a strong Japan,” July 14th 2010, [[http://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2010/06/14/east-asia-needs-a-strong-japan.html]]] AP
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">A change of head of government in Japan no longer surprises anyone. Two weeks ago, Yukio Hatoyama resigned as prime minister and was replaced by former finance minister Naoto Kan. Indeed, over the last four years, Japan has had several prime ministers. The victory of Japan’s Democratic Party (DPJ), which brought an end to the domination of Japanese politics by the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), failed to ensure the stability of government in Japan. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Protracted uncertainties in Japanese politics have</span></span> further <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">undermined the country’s efforts to regain its status as a significant player in East Asia. As the region is being transformed by the rise of China and the arrival of India as two new major powers, Japan has struggled to prove its relevance in the regional strategic equation.</span></span> It is true that Japan remains an important economic power in the region and beyond. Yet, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">East Asia has</span></span> now <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">become a region shaped by countries with both economic and strategic significance. Even as an economic power, Japan is being challenged by China as the second largest economy in the world, and the prospect for Japan to revitalize its economy remains uncertain.</span></span> In fact, Prime Minister Kan even warned that Japan could face a similar fate as Greece if it did not resolve its mounting national debt, which has reached 218.6 percent of its gross domestic product in 2009. Aware of the danger, as a new leader, Prime Minister Kan has promised to restore Japan’s economic vitality and aimed for more than 2 percent of annual growth by 2020. The challenge for Japan in achieving that target is enormous. In addition to economic problems, the dynamic of Japan’s internal politics often renders it difficult for any government to push for necessary reforms. For example, it is not immediately clear how long Prime Minister Kan would survive. One cannot be sure whether the DPJ would be able to maintain its grip on power in the next election. Despite all the difficulties, we hope Japan would be able to withstand the challenges. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">As international relations in East Asia enter its most crucial juncture, the role of Japan as a major regional power is very much needed. It is for the first time in Asia’s history that regional politics would be characterized by more than two powerful players. China will undoubtedly soon emerge as the most powerful country, second only to the US. India too will become a power that would shape the future of East Asia. As a result, a new emerging regional order is in the making. Southeast Asian countries, having good relationships with all four major powers, expect that the ongoing power shift in East Asia willcontinue to be peaceful and to the benefits of all regional nations, small and big. I, for one, believe that some sort of multi-polar structure in East Asia would ensure that the region continues to enjoy the stability it has experienced over the last five decades. In that context, a strong Japan would greatly contribute to the preservation of peace, stability and prosperity in the region. A strong Japan would be beneficial for the fulfillment of the ideal of an East Asian community.</span></span> </span>

And only multilateral institutions can maintain a peaceful Chinese rise – the alternative is an imperialist China
Nye et al. ‘07
[Joseph S. Nye, Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic & International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, CEO, Center for New American Security, Fellow @ CSIS, Frank Jannuzi, Hitachi International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, David Asher, Senior Fellow @ The Heritage Foundation, John J. Hamre, President & CEO of CSIS, James A. Kelly, Senior Adviser @ CSIS, Kevin Nealer, Senior Fellow @ The Forum for International Policy, Admiral Joseph W. Prueher, Former Ambassador to China, James J. Przystup, Senior Fellow @ The Institute for National Security Studies,“The U.S.-Japan Alliance: Getting Asia Right through 2020,” Center for Strategic & International Studies, February 2007, [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070216_asia2020.pdf]]] AP
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">A profound transformation has been unfolding in China, one that points to the possibility of China emerging as the dominant regional power. Even factoring in the possibility of disruption, China will continue to be an engine of regional growth and global dynamism</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">. China’s growing comprehensive national power is already well reflected in its assertive diplomacy aimed at shaping the strategic environment around its borders. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">One key question for the United States, Japan, and all of Asia is: how will China use its newfound capabilities and resources as it matures as an economic and military power?</span></span> Since our October 2000 report was issued, perhaps the most significant event in the Pacific has been the explosive economic growth of China. China’s trade-to- GDP ratio has nearly doubled in the past 10 years, making it much more reliant on the external sector—U.S. and Asian markets in particular and raw materials from Australia, North America, and increasingly the Middle East. While China’s economic success presents opportunities for all, there are also emerging costs, such as a drawing away of capital and jobs that would have otherwise gone to its Asian neighbors—those of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) especially. China will grow, but its growth will not necessarily be a linear “rise” without complications. __China has massive internal challenges that include an aging society, a weak social safety net, large and growing disparities in development, and systemic corruption—all of which have resulted in social unease__. China’s leaders also are faced with growing labor unrest, a weak banking and financial system, lingering ethnic disputes, environmental problems almost unimaginable to Westerners, and vulnerability to epidemic disease. Together, these challenges have caused Chinese leaders to focus internally, thereby putting a premium on external stability. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China seeks a stable, peaceful international environment in which to develop its comprehensive national power</span></span>. China needs to avoid any disruption of its access to national resources (particularly oil and gas) and foreign investment, and it can ill afford major diversions of resources to causes unrelated to the objectives of economic growth and public welfare. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">That said, nationalism is growing in China, as elsewhere in the region. Among China’s leaders, nationalism is likely viewed as a useful tool to muster support for the Communist Party, particularly should economic growth falter. Although reliance on nationalism poses risks for the regime, Chinese leaders will likely continue to tap into nationalist sentiment to bolster their own legitimacy</span></span>. This may place limitations on the quality of interactions the United States and Japan can expect with China for the foreseeable future. Also limiting the quality of interactions are differences in values. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The most profound of these relate to differences over human rights, religious freedoms, and political systems. The values gap matters in the most consequential form because it gives rise to a “trust deficit.” In the case of China, there is a growing body of evidence suggesting that the nexus between values and foreign policy could negatively affect U.S. interests. </span></span>This is manifest in China’s behavior toward countries like Iran, Sudan, Venezuela, Zimbabwe, and Uzbekistan. It is evident that China is engaged in relationship building, which may enable continued irresponsible behavior on the part of other governments. One of the key features of Chinese foreign policy is a requirement to establish secure, reliable access to energy resources that lay beyond China’s borders. Its large and rising energy deficit and lingering distrust of free markets foster a perception among Chinese leaders that increasing reliance on foreign energy creates vulnerabilities. In the hope of securing the energy required to support China’s domestic demand, especially Persian Gulf oil to meet future transportation demands, China has embarked on an effort to promote supply diversification as well as overseas equity investment. The United States, Japan, and others will be further affected by China’s surging demand for energy and raw materials. Some of the consequences will likely be negative: higher prices for foreign crude, increasing environmental degradation, and competition over disputed maritime boundaries. But there will also be new opportunities for cooperation on energy efficiency, “clean-coal technology,” and nuclear power. It may also be the case that China’s increasing reliance on the outside world will present the United States and its friends with foreign policy opportunities. The spectacular economic growth of China has allowed it to make major investments in the military. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China’s intensive military modernization efforts are focused on preparing for a possible conflict with Taiwan, and its efforts are paying off. China is developing the ability to fight a high-tech war along its periphery. China has</span></span>, for example, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">developed remarkable coordination among critical military communities—those that do acquisition, training, logistics, doctrine/strategy, etc. Historically, such coordination has proven to be a formula for militaries to improve their capabilities quickly. </span></span>China has also begun to break down some of the barriers between its services, although it has not yet developed the ability to conduct truly joint military operations. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">As China continues to expand its military capabilities, it is likely to place greater emphasis on the development of a blue-water navy. This flows in part from the perception that it needs to protect energy sources and sea lanes. The modernization and growth of China will insure its power and affluence, but the direction it takes remains an open question. In 2020, China could be a responsible stakeholder, with increased political freedoms and liberal institutions that support economic openness and make for more responsible treatment of its people and its neighbors. On the other hand, China’s conduct could be marked by mercantilism, with illiberal institutions, chauvinistic nationalism, and corruption that distort international norms and threaten neighbors. China will continue to face discrete decision points in the global arena. In such instances, it is important that China has incentives to make those choices that lead it down a path of peaceful integration and benign competition. </span></span></span>

That guarantees conflict – containment strategies forcing an aggressive China cause mutual miscalculation and tension escalation
Hadar ‘96
[Leon, Adjunct Scholar of the Cato Institute, Jan 26th, “The Sweet-and-Sour Sino-Americana Relationship”, Cato Policy Analysis No. 428 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa-248.html]]]
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The containment hawks and geoeconomic and geocultural nationalists in Washington and the military hawks and cultural chauvinists in Beijing are a classic case of "rival twins." They accelerate the confrontation between the two nations</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">, as <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">each group feeds into the other's misconceptions</span></span>. The <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Chinese follow the debate and policies emanating from Washington and see them as part of a campaign to slow their country's rise to power</span></span>; the <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Americans monitor the rhetoric and actions of Beijing and assume that the Chinese leadership is hostile. That creates a trail of misperceptions and a vicious circle of policies and counterpolicies that could threaten at some point to get out of hand and produce a major international crisis</span></span>.Systemic Factors While misperceptions on both sides of the Pacific can be exacerbated by the way presidential leadership, bureaucratic factors, or domestic politics affects U.S. policy toward China, there is another, possibly more profound and systemic, dimension to the current Sino-American tensions. The <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">end of the Cold War, like any other revolutionary change in the international system, tends to produce new confrontations between various powers that want to dominate or at least influence the new global structure</span></span>. In many cases, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the international competition ushered in by a new era is between rising and hegemonic powers. A rising "have-not" power usually strives to change the status quo, including the rules of the international military and economic</span></span> game, in a way that will benefit its interests and help it to translate its new economic power into military and diplomatic influence.<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> The hegemonic "have" power wants to preserve the global status quo, thereby maintaining its dominant economic and military position</span></span>. Sometimes, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as in the case of Great Britain and Germany during the early 20th century, the rivalry erupts into a major hegemonic war</span></span>. Sometimes, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as in the rivalry between the United States and Great Britain in the late 1800s and early 1900s</span></span>, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the tension ends in a gradual and peaceful transition of dominant status from the old to the new power</span></span>. In still other instances, as in the case of the United States, Germany, and Japan in the post-World War II era, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it evolves into a peaceful, albeit complex, sharing of economic and military influence.(</span></span>63) <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Chinese leaders and people believe that</span></span> with the geostrategic and geoeconomic changes taking place in the world, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">their nation should and could gain its rightful place in the ranks of global great powers. The consensus that unites "moderates" and "radicals," or conservatives and reformists, in Beijing is that, in the aftermath of the Cold War, "the world has moved from a bipolar system to a multi-polar system</span></span>," according to a Western diplomat in the Chinese capital. "China intends to be a pole or significant actor" in that system. That means "defining its own sphere--and even using confrontation with the U.S. to send a signal to other countries that dealing with Taipei, for example, is courting trouble."(64)The rhetoric of top Clinton administration officials suggests that while the United States is expecting occasional problems with Beijing, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington is nevertheless willing to peacefully accommodate the rising power of China. "Our policy is engagement, not containment</span></span>," insists Lord. He adds, however, "We're not naive. We cannot predict what kind of power China will be in the 21st century. God forbid we may have to turn, with others, to a policy of containment. I would hope not. We're trying to prevent that."(65) But history suggests that things rarely remain as simple as Lord's formulation. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Maintaining a stable balance of power between an old hegemon and a new competitor is at best difficult, especially if the two powers and the system in which they operate are undergoing dramatic changes</span></span>.Post-Deng China: Post-Bismarck Germany or Post-1945 Russia? Some analysts, including Nicholas D. Kristof, former Beijing chief of the New York Times, have drawn a historical parallel between the rise of Germany as a world economic and military power at the end of the 19th century and China's rise in the last decade of the 20th century. They suggest that, given the similar authoritarian and insecure nature of the regimes in post-Bismarck Germany the post-Deng China, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China could emerge as a leading anti-status quo player, challenging the dominant position of the United States, which like Great Britain in the 19th century occupies the leading economic and military position in the world</span></span>. "The risk is that Deng's successor will be less talented and more aggressive--a Chinese version of Wilhelm II," writes Kristof. "Such a ruler unfortunately may be tempted to promote Chinese nationalism as a unifying force and ideology, to replace the carcass of communism." For all the differences between China and Wilhelmine Germany, "the latter's experience should remind us of the difficulty that the world has had accommodating newly powerful nations," warns Kristof, recalling that Germany's jockeying for a place in the front rank of nations resulted in World War I.(66) Charles Krauthammer echoes that point, contending that China is "like late 19th-century Germany, a country growing too big and too strong for the continent it finds itself on."(67) Since Krauthammer and other <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">analysts use the term "containment" to describe the policy they urge Washington to adopt toward China, it is the Cold War with the Soviet Union that is apparently seen as the model for the future Sino- American relationship</span></span>. Strategist Graham Fuller predicts, for example, that China is "predisposed to a role as leader of the dispossessed states" in a new cold war that would pit an American-led West against an anti-status quo Third World bloc.(68) Although Krauthammer admits that China lacks the ideological appeal that the Soviet Union possessed (at least in the early stages of the Cold War), he assumes that, like the confrontation with the Soviet Union but unlike the British-German rivalry, the contest between America and China will remain "cold" and not escalate into a "hot" war. That optimism is crucial. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Advocates of containment may be able to persuade a large number of Americans to adopt an anti-China strategy if the model is the tense but manageable Soviet-American rivalry</span></span>. However, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">not many Americans are likely to embrace containment if the probable outcome is a bloody rerun of World War I--only this time possibly with nuclear weapons.</span></span>The Cold War as a Dangerously Misleading Model <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Trying to use the paradigm of the Soviet-American rivalry to draw historical lessons and policy conclusions for dealing with China, however, is insidiously misleading</span></span>. Even if one assumes that the Soviet Union did stand formally for the radical revision of the international status quo after the Bolshevik revolution, its conduct in the post-1945 era was less disruptive. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It acted more as a "challenger," a global player committed to maintaining many features of the status quo while chafing at an American-dominated system. Moscow did challenge U.S. interests</span></span>, but for the most part, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it did so at the margins</span></span>. Moreover, by the late 1970s the <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Soviet Union had become a "declining challenger" whose economic weakness, resulting from disastrous domestic policies and the failure to integrate into the world system, led eventually to its demise</span></span>.(69) Current <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U.S. policymakers need to ask themselves whether China is an anti-status quo power, or even a "challenger" trying to harm core U.S. national interests, or a competitive player attempting to join the multipolar system and the global economy</span></span>--more like post- Gorbachev Russia and less like the post-1917 or even post- 1945 Soviet Union. If China is a competitive player, a <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">containment policy would be not only inappropriate but foolishly provocative</span></span>. Indeed, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">if U.S. policymakers attempt to keep China from joining the ranks of the great powers, there is a high probability that Beijing will not become a "challenger" playing according to a set of international rules</span></span> as the Soviet Union did during the Cold War. Instead, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China may turn into an anti-status quo power similar to Germany in the pre-World War I era or, perhaps even more applicable, Japan on the eve of Pearl Harbor. "If you treat China as an enemy, China will become an enemy," warned Assistant Secretary of Defense Joseph Nye in July 1995.(70) Moreover, whereas the Germany of Kaiser Wilhelm II had strong lines of communication with Britain based on close political, economic, cultural, and even royal ties, China for most Americans, including many foreign policy experts, still remains an enigma, and the American political culture and policymaking process is misunderstood in Beijing. The potential for misconceptions and misperceptions in Sino-American relations, leading eventually to dangerous diplomatic and military crises that could be mismanaged, is significantly greater than that which existed in the</span></span> pre-1914 <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">German- British rivalry or even in the Soviet-American Cold War</span></span>. The Last Pacific War--And the Next One?The historical analogy that may be most relevant to the long-term problems that American leaders face in dealing with China is the deterioration in Japanese-American relations in the 1930s. As journalist Jonathan Marshall says in a new study on the origins of the Pacific War, the conflict resulted in large part from the demand by the "have-not" power, Japan, to be recognized as the leading economic and military power in the Pacific and resistance by the principal status quo power, the United States (and its ally, Great Britain) to that demand. It was Japan's refusal to permit the United States and Britain to continue exercising total control over the mineral resources (including such industrial materials as rubber and tin) of Southeast Asia that was seen in Washington and London as a threat to the existing balance of power and was the main factor in the U.S. decision (which was made before Pearl Harbor) to go to war against Japan if Japanese expansionism continued. "The war was about much more than resources, of course," admits Marshall. The fact that the "have" nations represented a generally liberal order and Japan presented a militarist or totalitarian challenge gave the conflict "a deeply ideological cast." And such factors as <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">cultural misconceptions and the personality traits of leaders also influenced the events leading to Pearl Harbor.</span></span> But along with the contest of political philosophies and policy miscalculations was "a baser clash of power and interests, a struggle for economic hegemony over vast stretches of the world."(71)<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The violent struggle between "have" and "have-not" powers</span></span>, between the United States and Japan and between Great Britain and Germany, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">was not inevitable. The way countries define their national interests affects the foreign policy process more than anything else</span></span>. What is seen in retrospect as a tragedy, attributed to misunderstandings on all sides, a "March of Folly" to use Barbara Tuchman's term, was really the product of decisions and judgments motivated by self-interest and made by politicians, officials, lawmakers, experts, and journalists. The general public in Britain and the United States never fully comprehended that "national interest," as it was defined by the makers of foreign policy in Washington in the 1930s and in London in the first years of the 20th century, was based on the need to resist demands for changes in the international system--if need be by military force. Today, in the era of CNN-based public diplomacy, the American people have a better opportunity to determine the way the post-Cold War national interest in general and with regard to China in particular is defined. Like Americans who fought in World War II or the British who suffered the horrible consequences of the Great War, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">they will have to pay the high costs of policies for containing Chin</span></span>a, which are now being sketched in Washington. Conclusion: Living in Interesting, but Not Costly, Times <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China's emergence as a world power and its complex relationship with the United States are seen now by most Americans as quite relevant to the U.S. national interest. </span></span>According to one recent study measuring public interest in international issues, in the last four years <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the number of people who believe that China is important to the vital interests of the United States has increased more than the number who believe any other country is important</span></span>. Both opinion <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">leaders</span></span> and the general public <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">believe that China's influence will grow dramatically over the next 10 years.</span></span> More than half of the public and slightly less than half of the <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">leaders believe that the emergence of China as a world power might be a "critical" threat to vital U.S. interests in the next decade</span></span>. Heightened concern about China is further reflected by the fact that two-thirds of the public and more than four-fifths of the leaders believe that the United States should be spying on the Chinese government.(72) Unfortunately, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">despite heightened public interest in China, the fact that the two military and economic giants of the Pacific have been drifting apart has not received the attention it deserves in Washington</span></span>, where the foreign policy debate has continued to be dominated by the civil war in Bosnia. Contributing to the lack of any comprehensive discussion of the Sino-American relationship has been the haphazard and crisis-oriented media coverage of the China story and the preoccupation with Beijing's human rights conduct. Consequently, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">most Americans are probably not aware of the potentially very high stakes involved in the Sino-American relationship.Indeed, the prospect the United States might find itself drawn into a costly diplomatic and military conflict with China over the future of several tiny islands in the South China Sea or an escalation in tensions between Taipei and Beijing has not been considered by most Americans</span></span>--<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">who in all probability are not sure of the spelling of Spratly and are certainly not familiar with the distinctions between "Chinese" and "Taiwanese" nationalism</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Yet China and the United States could drift toward a costly armed conflict if the containment strategy </span></span>advocated by many first-term Republican members of Conress <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is adopted</span></span>. Those Republicans propose a policy that is out of line with the aspirations of the American people and raises questions about the Republicans' commitment to the "populist" agenda they propagate. Indeed, a recent poll indicates that 71 percent of Americans do not think that the United States should defend Taiwan if China launches a military invasion.(73) </span>


War involving China and the US is uniquely likely – its uniquely likely to go global nuclear
Dodge ‘05
[Paul, Department of Defense and Strategic Studies – Missouri State University, “China’s Naval Strategy and Nuclear Weapons: The Risks of Intentional and Inadvertent Nuclear Escalation”, Comparative Strategy, 24(5), December, Pg. 415-416]
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In the summer of 2005, Chinese</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> Major-<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">General</span></span> Zhu <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Chenghu threatened the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">with nuclear attack, stating that, “If the Americans draw their missiles and position-guided ammunition on to the target zone on China’s territory, I think we will have to respond with nuclear weapons.”</span></span>1 It should be noted that <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the</span></span> People’s Republic of China (<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">PRC</span></span>) <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">considers Taiwan to be PRC territory</span></span>, as well as the territorial waters surrounding the island, its exclusive economic zone, those of the Senkaku (Diaoyutai Islands), and virtually the entire South China Sea and its islands. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">To be successful in any military effort to acquire Taiwan or any of its many other territorial ambitions, the PRC realizes that it must be able to deter U.S. military intervention. The idea is to convince the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and the world that China is both capable and, more importantly, willing to inflict grievous casualties on U.S. forces, even at the cost of heavy economic, diplomatic, and military losses to the PRC. Efforts toward this end have been manifested over recent years in the form of greatly increased military spending, the acquisition of weapons designed specifically to attack U.S. naval forces, the development of new strategic and tactical nuclear weapons, and the formation of a naval warfighting strategy that emphasizes asymmetric attacks on high-value U.S. assets and personnel.</span></span> The July statement from General Zhu is of course among the most visible of these efforts. One wonders why General Zhu was not fired or even sternly reprimanded by his military and Chinese Communist Party (CCP) superiors for such a statement at an official press conference. In truth, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it is</span></span> but <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the latest in a string of bellicose remarks by high-ranking Chinese military officials designed to convince the U.S. policymaking, intelligence, and military communities that China is ready to escalate to the use of nuclear weapons should it become necessary.</span></span> Classic deterrence, after all, dictates that an enemy can only be deterred through the combination of capability and credibility. However, when considered in the context of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and Navy (PLAN) strategy to take on the United States in a naval and aerial conflict, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China’s strategy to deter can be seen as a recipe for inadvertent nuclear escalation.</span></span> Put simply, this piece argues that <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China’s warfighting doctrine is misguided, unrealistic, and dangerous.</span></span> It is misguided because it places a great deal of focus on attacking U.S. aircraft carriers, which in reality are likely to be far more difficult to find, track, and attack than the Chinese realize. It is unrealistic because the vast majority of Chinese naval and air forces, which comprise the backbone of its conventional force options, are likely to be annihilated by American standoff weapons, advanced aircraft, and vastly superior attack submarines. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Most important of all, the way in which China has mated its nuclear strategy to its conventional warfighting strategy is extremely dangerous because it makes nuclear war with the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">far more likely. There are several reasons why this is the case. First, China’s acquisition of advanced foreign weaponry, its expectation that the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">will back down at the first hint of casualties, and its belief that nuclear weapons can act as a force multiplier all threaten to lower the nuclear threshold and cause a deterrence failure vis-`a-vis U.S. forces in the region. Lulled into a false sense of security, China may act on its irredentist policies when it should be deterred by superior U.S. forces and slim chances for victory. Second, Chinese capabilities are actually very modest, meaning they are only suitable for combat against other regional states. When faced with a first-rate power, China’s forces will suffer heavy attrition.</span></span> Finally, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the loss of these forces</span></span>, including high-value naval combatants, aircraft, and early warning assets, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">will cause China’s conventional strategy to collapse, leaving only nuclear options.</span></span> At this point, the PRC will be left with only two real choices and find itself at a strategic “fork in the road.” On one hand, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it can de-escalate, sue for peace, or</span></span> otherwise <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">accept defeat. On the other, it can fall back on the nuclear aspect of its doctrine. Enormous domestic, economic, and political pressures will make the choice of the former a very difficult one for the PRC leadership. The latter choice entails either early nuclear usage to avoid anticipated casualties, or later use in a desperate effort to cause massive U.S. casualties</span></span>, aid PLAN conventional forces, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">or tip the tactical balance in China’s favor. This analysis first examines the conventional aspects of China’s naval strategy and its preoccupation with anti-carrier tactics. Nuclear weapons are closely integrated with conventional forces in this strategy, and both play a crucial role in threatening high-value U.S. assets.</span></span> The discussion then turns to the real-world difficulties China would face while attempting to track and attack an aircraft carrier battlegroup. Similarly<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, the vital role of U.S. attack submarines in defeating China’s anti-access strategies will be detailed. While these sections explore why China’s anti-carrier and sea denial strategies are unlikely to succeed, they also highlight just a few of the many reasons why China’s forces would stand little real chance against U.S. forces in the foreseeable future. Finally, these factors will be analyzed in the context of theories of inadvertent escalation. Originally formulated in reference to late Cold War conflict scenarios, these ideas are greatly germane to any future Sino-U.S. conflict. It is only through the exploration of the impacts of U.S. offensive and defensive actions, as well as the concomitant attrition of conventional forces, that the full escalatory dangers of Chinese warfighting strategy may be revealed. </span></span></span>

Independently, conflict will cause global conflict escalation – countries will take advantage of US pre-occupation
Straits Times 2K
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000]
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait war escalating into </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a full-scale war between the US and China</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> If Washington were to conclude that splitting China would better serve its national interests, then a full-scale war becomes unavoidable. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Conflict on such a scale </span></span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would embroil other countries far and near and</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> -- horror of horrors -- </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">raise the possibility of</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> a </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nuclear war. Beijing </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">has already told the US and Japan privately that it </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">considers any country providing bases and logistics</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> support </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">to</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> any </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">US forces</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> attacking China </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as belligerent parties open to its retaliation.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If China were to retaliate, East Asia will be set on fire. And</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> the conflagration may not end there as </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Mid</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">dle </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">East may be similarly upset</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> by the likes of Iraq. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">could enter a new and dangerous phase.</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -- truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, </span></span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">there is little hope of winning a war against China</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> 50 years later, </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">short of using nuclear weapons.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> The US estimates that </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option.</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> A </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Chinese</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Major-General Pan Zhangqiang</span></span>, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">said </span></span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">military leaders consider</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">ed </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> Gen Ridgeway said that </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilization.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> There would be no victors in such a war.</span></span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">While the prospect of <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a nuclear Armageddon</span></span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> over Taiwan</span></span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">might seem inconceivable, it <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">cannot be ruled out</span></span></span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> entirely, </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">for China puts sovereignty above everything else.</span></span>

Regional military dominance is a futile strategy – the US should allow regional powers to engage in multilateral cooperation – best way to maintain stability
Bandow ‘10
[Doug, March 25, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” available at [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11617]], SM]
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Obama administration should</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">pursue a different course, a transformational agenda, emphasizing economic integration while promoting military detachment</span></span>. America still has a major economic role to play, but should increasingly devolve defense responsibilities on countries in the region. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The most important relationship for the 21st century will be that between the existing superpower and the potential superpower</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington should strengthen economic and trade ties with China. Moreover, Washington must forge a cooperative relationship on difficult regional issues like North Korea</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The PRC has much at stake on a stable Korean Peninsula; it also has much to gain from taking the lead in promoting diplomatic solutions of regional problems. The president should press for a more active PRC policy to support reinvigorated U.S. engagement with the North</span></span>. Washington should speak frankly about the importance of human rights, while recognizing America's limited ability to influence the PRC's behavior. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">An improved bilateral relationship is more likely than isolation to encourage greater respect</span></span> by Beijing for the liberty of its citizens. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The president should treat Japan as a full partner</span></span>. In economics, that means proposing a free trade agreement. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">On defense, rather than merely adjusting its controversial Status of Forces Agreement, Washington should withdraw its garrisons from Japanese soil and turn defense responsibility for Japan over to Toky</span></span>o<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. The U.S. also should encourage greater cooperation between Japan and its neighbors</span></span>. World War II ended more than six decades ago: <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Japanese do not have a double dose of original sin and America should no longer play geopolitical wet-nurse for nations that long ago developed the means to protect their own interests</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington should engage North Korea over its nuclear program. At the same time, the U.S. should inform the North that full international integration requires the participation of South Korea, China, Japan, and Russia as well</span></span>. The Obama administration should coordinate South Korea, Japanese, and U.S. policies regarding Pyongyang. However, Washington should allow the Republic of Korea to lead the nonproliferation campaign. Seoul has the most at stake in maintaining a peaceful peninsula. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">As the U.S. steps back from its dominant military role, the ROK and its neighbors should step forward. At the same time, Washington should seek to tighten regional economic integration</span></span>. The starting point should be a push to ratify the FTA with South Korea. President Obama needs to promote a changed attitude as much as offer new policies. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Japanese government apparently is interested in promoting a regional order, called the East Asian Community, apart from the U.S. Washington should embrace rather than resist such an approach</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U.S. will be most secure if friendly states in East Asia work together to confront sources of instability, promote respect for human rights, and encourage the peaceful settlement of disputes</span></span>. <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Such a cooperative venture also would help channel China's rise in peaceful directions. The U.S. will remain engaged in East Asia. America's cultural and economic ties are long-lasting and mutually beneficial. But Washington no longer has any need to attempt to preserve regional military hegemony.</span></span> </span>
= = 

=Negative= 
==Strategies Run - Wake Forest== 
----
__**Round 2 vs. Canton Central Catholic - Kritikal PMC's**__
**Offcase - T - "It's", T - "Substantial", Hillman K, Iraq Stability DA,**
**Case - PMC's Good, Realism, Utilitarianism, Predictions Good**
**2NR - Iraq Stability DA + Case Turns & Defense**
__**Round 3 vs. Marist - COIN**__
**Offcase - T - "Military Presence," Surge CP, Security K, START PTX**
**Case - CT BadTurns, COIN Good Turns/Winning Now, Terrorism Defense, Hegemony Turns**
**2NR - START PTX, Hegemony Turns**
__**Round 6 vs. River Hill - Futenma**__
**Offcase - T - "Substantial," Security K, Hegemony DA**
**Oncase - Alliance Defense, Warming Good Impact Turns, Deterrence Turns**
**2NR - START PTX, Deterrence Turns, Warming Turns'**
__**Octofinals vs. Lexington - COIN**__
**Offcase - START PTX, Surge CP, "Afghanistan" PIC**
**Oncase - CT Bad Turns, COIN Good Turns/Winning Now, Hegemony Turns**
**2NR - "Afghanistan" PIC**

==Strategies Run - GDS== 
----

__**Round 2 vs. Berkeley Prep PS - Japan Navy**__
**Plan Text - The United States federal government should withdraw its forces from Atsugi naval air base and downsize its forces at Yokosuka naval base commensurate with the decommissioning of CVN 73.**
**Offcase - T - "Substantial", Nuclear Navy CP, START PTX, Debt Commission CP**
**Case - South China Seas Defense, China War Defense, Small Navy Turns**
**2NR - Nuclear Navy CP, Small Navy Turns, Case Defense**
__**Round 4 vs. Broadrun - Kritikal Iraq**__
**Offcase - T - "Subtantial", SOFA Restructuring Condition CP, Debt Commission CP, Hegemony DA, START PTX**
**Case - Utilitarianism, Realism, Racism Defense**
**2NR - Hegemony DA, Utilitarianism, Racism Defense**
__**Round 5 vs. McDonough GV - Futenma**__
**Plan Text - The United States federal government should close the Marine Corps Air Station Futenma in the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan and phase out all Marines stationed on Okinawa except for the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit to the point of elimination.**
**Offcase - T - "Substantial", Hegemony DA, Shimoji Conditions CP**
**Case - China War Defense, Japanese/Asian/Generic Proliferation Good**
**2NR - Hegemony DA, Proliferation Good, Case Defense**

==Strategies Run - Bronx== 
----

__**Round 4 vs. Saint Johns CC - Japan BMD**__
**Offcase - T - "Military Presence", RES PTX, China Advantage CP**
**Case - NFU Defense, Proliferation Good**
**2NR - RES PTX, Proliferation Good, NFU Defense**
__**Round 5 vs. Lexington CK - COIN**__
**Offcase - Withdrawal/Deterrence DA, Bilateral Defense Treaty CP, "Afghanistan" PIC**
**Case - Terrorism Turns, Hegemony Defense, Afghanistan Stability Defense/Winning Now**

==Strategies Run - Scranton== 
**__Round 2 vs. Brooklyn Technical PP__ - Reduce hyper masculinity in military and/or police presence/Performance**
**Offcase - Framework, Hegemony DA**
**Case - Utilitarianism, Realism, Patriarchy Defense**
**2NR - Framework**
**__Round 6 vs. Bronx BK__ - COIN**
**Offcase - RES PTX, Withdrawal DA, U/Q CP, T-Non Combat**
**Case - Terrorism Turns, Hegemony Defense, Afghanistan Stability Defense/Winning Now**
**2NR - PTX**, **Case**
__**Octos vs. Riverhill GH**__ **- Futenma**
**Offcase - Alliance Restructuring/FTA Advantage CP, Warming Advantage CP, Senkaku DA, T-Substantial**
**Case - Proliferation Good**
**2NR - Proliferation Good, Bio-diversity Bad - A2: 2AC Add-On**
**__Semis vs. Beacon DF__ - Policing of Black Bodies/Performance**
**Offcase - Framework, Ontological Blackness, Southeast Asian Counteradvocacy**
**Case - Organic Intellectualism Bad**
**2NR - Southeast Asian Counteradvocacy**
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**Hillman K**</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. The psyche exists and comes first. It shapes our understanding of the world – Everything depends on it.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jung, ’56 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Carl G. Jung, Renowned Scholar of Psychoanalysis and Founder of the Jung Institute, “The Undiscovered Self”, New American Library, New York, [[http://www.compilerpress.ca/Competitiveness/Anno/Anno%20Jung%20Undiscovered%20Self.htm]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> For more than fifty years we have known, or could have known, that there is an unconscious counterbalance to consciousness. Medical psychology has furnished all the necessary empirical and experimental proofs of this. There is an unconscious psychic reality which demonstrably influences consciousness and its contents. All this is known, but no practical conclusions have been drawn from this fact. We still go on thinking and acting as before, as if we were simplex and not duplex. Accordingly, we imagine ourselves to be innocuous, reasonable, and humane. We do not think of distrusting our motives or of asking ourselves how the inner man feels about the things we do in the outside world. But actually it is frivolous, superficial, and unreasonable of us, as well as psychically unhygienic, to overlook the reaction and standpoint of the unconscious. One 1. Since these words were written, the shadow has followed up this over bright picture hotfoot with the Charge of the Light Brigade to Suez. can regard one’s stomach or heart as unimportant and worthy of contempt, but that does not prevent overeating or overexertion from having consequences that affect the whole man. Yet we think that psychic mistakes and their consequences can be got rid of with mere words, for “psychic” means less than air to most people. All the same, nobody can deny that without the psyche there would be no world at all, and still less a human world. Virtually everything depends on the human psyche and its functions. It should be worthy of all the attention we can give it, especially today, when everyone admits that the wheel or woe of the future will be decided neither by the threat of wild animals, nor by natural catastrophes, nor by the danger of world-wide epidemics, but simply and solely by the psychic changes in man. It needs only an almost imperceptible disturbance of equilibrium in a few of our rulers’ heads to plunge the world into blood, fire, and radioactivity. The technical means necessary for this are present on both sides. And certain conscious deliberations, uncontrolled by any inner opponent, can be put into effect all too easily, as we have seen already from the example of one “Leader.” The consciousness of modern man still clings so much to external objects that he makes them exclusively responsible, as if it were on them that the decision depended. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. War is ingrained in our society – History has been littered with the wars of our ancestors.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, ’04 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Lecturer @ Yale, Syracuse & The University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 17-18] AP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Halt! Is war abnormal? I find it normal in that it is with us every day and never seems to go away. After World War II subsided and the big conflicts that followed it (India, Korea, Algeria, Biafra, Vietnam, Israel/ Egypt), war went right on. Since 1975 the globe has been engaged in wars in Haiti, Grenada, the Falklands, Peru, Panama, Colombia, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala; in Lebanon, Palestine, Israel, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait; in Uganda, Rwanda, Mozambique, Angola, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Congo, Eritrea, Chad, Mauritania, Somalia, Algeria (again), Sudan; in Afghanistan, Myanmar, India/Pakistan, Kashmir, Sri Lanka, the Philippines, Cambodia, East Timor, Sumatra, Iran; in Bosnia, Croatia, Kosovo, Ireland, Chechnya, Georgia, Romania, Basque/Spain ... You may know of others; still others only the participants know. Some on this list are still going on as I write, while new ones break out as you read. Some of them are sudden eruptions like the Falklands, and the sheep graze again. Others in places like Algeria and the Sudan and Palestine belong to the normal round, utterly normative for defining daily life. This normal round of warfare has been going on as far back as memory stretches. During the five thousand six hundred years of written history, fourteen thousand six hundred wars have been recorded. Two or three wars each year of human history. Edward Creasy's Fifteen Decisive Battles (1851) and Victor Davis Hanson's Carnage and Culture have taught us that the turning points of Western civilization occur in battles and their "killing sprees": Salamis and Carthage, Tours and Lepanto, Constantinople, Waterloo, Midway, Stalingrad. Which you choose as the top fifteen depends on your own criteria, but the point is carried-the ultimate determination of historical fate depends on battle whose outcome, we have also been taught, depends upon an invisible genius, a leader, a hero, who, at a critical moment, or in prior indefatigable preparation, "saves the day." In him a transcendent spirit is manifested. The battle and its personified epitome, this victor, this genius, become salvational representations in our secular history. Laurels for halo. The statues in our parks, the names of our grand avenues, and the holidays we celebrate--and not only in Western societies-commemorate the salvational aspect of battle.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. The Affirmative’s withdrawal from the battlefield embraces modern warfare and the distancing of Apollo. Separating ourselves from the enemy justifies horrific atrocities as the enemy can be eliminated with the push of a button. This sort of warfare quashes our desire for combat. Instead of preventing war we should embrace it.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, ’04 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Lecturer @ Yale, Syracuse & The University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 90-92] AP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Why dwell on this archaic god of war when war has moved on, when the entire action of battle has radically changed? Napoleon, Grant, Eisenhower, and Patton too, belong to another era. The fleets of dreadnoughts at Jutland, and the hand-to-hand death struggles at the front-all memories and movies. War is now either devastatingly high-tech and executed by skilled experts with their fingertips, or so small-scale that war is fought by a single person with a bomb under her blouse or a sneaky kid leaving a school bag at a bus stop. "When the Khmer Rouge marched into Phnom Penh .. . the first troops were teenagers. Young girls, young boys, some under fourteen years old, bearing very heavy portable rocket launchers. The girls wore hand grenades around their waists and across their chests like necklaces." 100 "I was ten years old when a Viet Minh convinced me to go to a secret school. . .. At night they took me into a cemetery, behind a grave mound where two people can sit unnoticed .... Sometimes they only train a child for one or two months before they send him somewhere with a hand grenade-inside the city or a marketplace."101 No more battle rage; cool. Different styles of war under the aegis of different gods with different styles of imagination. Instead of Mars/ Ares, the strategies and political indoctrination of Athene, wars of words and leaflets, winning the hearts and minds, conversion to reason, and the long-term planning of countermeasures to the long-term planning of hijackers and plotters. Instead of Mars, Hermes: invisible and instantaneous Internet communications, undercover infiltration, code-breaking, jamming, surveillance with night vision, hearing through walls, bribes, gifts, rewards, and financial laundering. Yet more threatening is the imagination of Apollo, "the fardarter," as he was called, who killed with arrows shot through the air: the imagination of distancing. Weapons far from the front, the front itself dissolved as war moves upward into the air, to satellites, outer space, transformed by the Apollonic imagination into nuclear visions brighter than a thousand suns. Where the wars of Mars pit armies against armies on battlefields outside the city, acknowledge "open cities" preserved from attack, the Apollonic style makes war against cities, against civilians, against civilization-cafes, embassies, office towers-against water lines and power lines. Children in schools mere collateral damage. Meanwhile, the technician sits in his shelter at the control panel and with the push of an orderly series of buttons fires missiles that can take out a town hundreds of miles away. He does not know the name of the place, the people, or see the flames. He has commendably done his duty, obeyed orders exactly, even though he is less an actual combatant than the civilians he has killed. Apollonic distancing. Apollo, remember, could not consummate his relations. He chased but failed in closeness. The increasing distance between central command and actual engagement is not overcome by speedy communication. The feeling of distance between headquarters and front, between officers and men, that plagues armies with contempt and murderous hatred is reinforced by the Apollonic structure of vertical hierarchy. There is distancing in language with fancy names for special operations, acronyms for war and the places of engagement, and for casualties and death. It would seem Mars has been eclipsed. Yet the ground must still be held under the soldier's boot. The dead must still be buried. No matter the distance, the abstract language, the covert operations, explosions still blast, firefights erupt in close quarters, house to house, street by street, roadblock, check-point, river bank, thicket. War comes down to ground. Beyond the violent occasions of martial action, the god is also there, and essentially so, in the will to fight, the love of war, the rush to win and the rush of winning. And the fanatic's sacrifice. Mars is the fire that tempers the men and melds them into a deployable team. His is the vision of war as the last resort that is the final life-or death determinant, or deterrent, within all strategies, subterfuges, and nuclearism. The impetuous passion of Mars makes war happen in the flesh and blood of history. If war were left only to Apollo or Hermes or Athene, war games, war plans, and maneuvers of the mind would be enough.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D. The affirmative’s distaste for conflict is symptomatic of America’s addiction to innocence. This addiction allows for our inability to comprehend war and for its replication. Only by engaging in war, by imaging our enemies can we ensure the populace understands what war truly means. Failure to engage in war leaves it to the hawks whose unimaginative mindset causes a procession of violence in a never-ending quest for destruction. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, '06</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0in;">[James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Lecturer @ Yale, Syracuse & The University of Chicago, “War, Peace and The American Imagination”, Lecture @ Emory University, [[@http://www.mythicjourneys.org/podcast_2feb06.html]]] AP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In thinking about this program, I ask myself why I am here. And I think I am here for a different reason this evening than I thought about when I was thinking about it before. (Laughter) These last days, this last three weeks, I'm here because of the American Imagination. I'm here less because of war and peace I think, but because of this enormous, tragic, horror which is the American imagination. The lack of it. The failure of it. The absence of it. And that really is a kind of esthetic numbing in the country. And that is what really brings me and what really moves me. If we don't imagine, we get Iraq. We get New Orleans. We get criminal irresponsibility. McNamara says 'the failure of imagination.' McNamara, The Fog of War, who ran the defense department under Kennedy and then under Johnson, the Vietnam War: "We can now understand these catastrophes for what they were. Essentially the products of a failure of imagination." Donald Rumsfeld, talking about surprise and its consequence said, "It is due to the poverty of expectations-the failure of imagination." And the director of the National Security Agency, Michael Hayden, said about the twin towers, "Perhaps it was more a failure of imagination this time than last." Meaning Pearl Harbor. The failure of imagination. What is wrong with us? What is this failure of imagination? Keegan, one of the great writers on war, said that one of the essential aspects of war is deliberate cruelty. Deliberate cruelty, not accidental cruelty-not the cruelty of near misses and so on-but deliberate cruelty. And it is this that we get when we plan and we don't imagine. We know how to plan. We had plans for New Orleans. Excellent plans. But we didn't have an imagination of what could happen. This is a very important thing because where does imagination go to school in the United States? Where is our esthetic, artistic, fantastic, speculative possibility? That's what's missing. We know how to plan. We can plan a ten thousand carpet bomb. We can use the big, conceptual words like evacuation. We can talk about the bridge. But we can't imagine what goes on in the hearts of the victims. Or what goes on in the hearts of the actual people. For example, since New Orleans is in everyone's mind, people are told to evacuate-mandatory evacuation-but does anyone imagine that you may not have the money for the gas? Or to have a car? That's imagination, not planning. We are excellent at planning...but can we imagine? Can we imagine the lasting consequences of war? The wanderings of people. The waste. The wasted lives. The woundings that are carried ever after. And the numbers of psychic damages ever after: each person's life, body, family, neighborhood, carrying the wounds. We are still carrying the wounds of Vietnam, deeply, heavily, implacably. And something else that we have to understand is that command and control, which is fundamental in our way of thinking-taking charge, command and control-broke down completely in regard to New Orleans. And is clearly not working in Iraq. So one has to think how do we not...how do we reinforce and rebuild command and control...but how do we re-imagine what this is? And why it doesn't work? What fails in regard to the human heart in regard to that? Now, by going to war-which is what I think we have to do, we who are here partly because of the word 'peace' in the title of this event-that is, we are doves in heart, we do want peace, but we are the ones who must turn to war and give it deep thought. Because if we don't, we leave war to the hawks. To the war colleges. To the war planners. We leave it to Kristal and Wolfowitz and company. We leave it to the warmongers if those who are dedicated to peace, and long for peace, don't put their minds into the depth of the importance of war. We have to remember now that Kant, Immanuel Kant the philosopher, said that war is..."the natural state of human beings is war." The French philosopher Levinas said, "Being reveals itself as war." Perhaps he was going back to Heraclites at the beginning of Western thought who said, "War is the father of all things." In other words, these are very profound thinkers who have said that war is the first question...war is the first question. To think ourselves into its truth. Into its reality. And if we don't do this kind of thinking, we can only oppose war-or work our way through war-by going to war. We have to go to war in mind. And that's the painful part of it. So that you yourself, by feeling it and imagining it, are hurt by it. Not simply as a witness on TV shows, but realize the implacable, eternal, archetypal force of it that comes...that there are more wars in recorded history than there are years in recorded history. The numbers of wars-the fact that wars have been with us since the beginning of time and continue to be with us all through this century. Even now as we are sitting here, there are I don't know how many wars there are going on in different parts of the world. So as I am saying, the American imagination is interested in planning, command and control, and fact-finding. Think of Columbine, think of the school in Colorado. What happened with Columbine? They sealed the place off. They removed the bullet holes. The study of Columbine was how soon could we get there-how much sooner could the cops get there? Why did this happen? How many bullets holes were there in the walls? They were all counted. All the facts were gathered. But the imagination of what was going on in the hearts of those boys, where's that? Sartre said, "He who begins with facts will never arrive at essences." It's that. It's getting to the essence of the issues. The facts don't take us to the essences. We gather the facts. We have fact-finding commissions after every event. But do we imagine? And then the imagination continues underground as conspiracy theories. The Kennedy assassination was dealt with in fact-finding in the Warren Report. Every bloody possibility of how the bullets entered and came out and went through another head and so on have been registered and recorded. We have all the facts. But it does nothing to the imagination, which continues and continues and continues in conspiracy theories. So my plea is for imagining. Now how do we imagine? And what is imagining? It isn't simple the way I understand it; it's entering into the heart of the Other. It is an activity in Islamic mysticism. It is an activity of the heart. The heart imagines. Now that isn't simply 'feeling' into the Other, as we learn in psychotherapy: empathy or sympathy and so on, or kibbutz. It's even something other than compassion, because it has not so much to do with the feeling, as it has to do with imagining into the Other. Can we imagine into the Other? Imagine the enemy? Imagine what he and she and they are living and thinking and believing? If we think of Iraq then we have to think: why the insurgency? What is in the heart of the insurgency? And then we would step back and think about where are we in relation to what's in their heart? Not the fear in our heart, but what's in their heart. And if you think about...put yourself into it...we look at our men exposing themselves to terrible risks in the streets of Baghdad or Fallujah or Nejaf and so on...but imagine how they look if you are an Iraqi. These great guys with their uniforms and their pieces and their equipment and their stuff. There's a kind of aesthetic insult in a culture which has an esthetic way of looking at the world. Something we don't even know about. We don't even know the languages. We have a great shortage of translators. You know all this; this is news. But what I am trying to say is that there are ways of imagining how we appear to them. Not our theories, not our politics, not our ideals, that's not what I mean. Our esthetic presentation, ourselves as we are: what that is to someone else. We have to think as, let's say, anthropologists on a field trip in order to enter into how we are perceived, seeing ourselves from the other side, that's the kind of imaging that I'm calling for. And I don't want to talk yet about peace. I think that will come up in our discussion. But I do want to say something about love and the importance of love in war. What we often have forgotten is the fact that we love war. There is love in war among the soldiers, there is love for war: the marching off to war, and there is the love of war itself. War is in love with itself and wants to go on and on and on...continuing... There is a certain kind of love that belongs to war. It has its own love. It has its own beauty. And there are many examples of the charity, the kindness, the nobility of soul, the sacrifice of one's self for the other. The relation of the buddies to each other-these buddies can be men and women, it's not necessarily only men-and that this kind of emotional sweetness that some say they have never felt at any other moment in their lives except in the midst of battle. They've also felt fear and horror and misery, yes, I don't deny that, but what we need to remember is that there is a kind of love there that surpasses for some who have been in it, and with it, surpasses all other sorts. I don't want to read passages of that, I have a lot of that in my book called A Terrible Love of War, but it's there. And there is a beauty, a love for the beauty of war that overwhelms people. As the Allied armada moved toward the North African beaches, Ernie Pyle, one of the great writers of the Second World War, wrote, "Hour after hour I stood at the rail looking at an almost choking sense of beauty, and power enveloped me." A member of Patton's staff in Sicily wrote to his wife "and speaking of wonderful things, the high-water mark and perhaps the most beautiful as well as satisfactory sight I have ever beheld was a flaming enemy bomber spattering itself and its occupants against the side of a mountain. God, it was gorgeous." That's a sense of beauty that people don't want to accept: that they are thrilled, that they find something superlative, sublime, in the midst of war. So if we don't understand the attraction, if we don't understand the attraction of war, we will go on being innocents. And that's our American addiction: the addiction to innocence. That's our only addiction. It's not drugs and it's not marijuana and so on. It's the addiction to not knowing. Not wanting to know. (Applause) So we can talk about ending war and having peace, but there is something about the God of War that attracts. Mars was always paired with Venus. Venus is beauty, attraction, seduction, charm, pleasure... And if we don't get to that, if we just stand back and say 'war is horrible, I can't look,' we remain children. So, there are many kinds of war and there are many kinds of love. And one of the aspects has been said by a French philosopher, Foucault, that "what war offers is a maximum of intensity and a maximum of impossibility at the same time." That is very close to an intense, esthetic, mystical experience. Maximum of intensity. That's why when they come back, they can't talk about it because they were in another plane, in another state. A maximum of intensity and a maximum of impossibility. Death and love at the same moment. Eros and Thanatos in Freud's language. And so the battle engagement for some, and often reported by many in different cultures: most sublime, romantic moment. Comparable only to falling in love in the sexual, passionate. In other words, the Venus aspect of the Mars-Venus pair. The mythic imagination that seizes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">E. The Solution – To love war</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Instead of going to war in the name of peace, we should enter war for war’s own sake. This means setting aside our fear and distaste for conflict aside so we can imagine ourselves embroiled in beautiful strife. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the alternative comes first and is a prerequisite to affirmative solvency because war is the primary psychological task that shapes all of our notions about society. Unless we come to terms with the war in each of us, our desire for war will lash out and push us closer and closer to annihilation.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hillman, ’04</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Lecturer @ Yale, Syracuse & The University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 1-3] AP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We can never prevent war or speak sensibly of peace and disarmament unless we enter this love of war. Unless we move our imaginations into the martial state of soul, we cannot comprehend its pull. This means "going to war"; and this book aims to, induct our minds into military service. We are not going to war "in the name of peace" as deceitful rhetoric so often declares, but rather for war's own sake: to understand the madness of its love. Our civilian disdain and pacifist horror-all the legitimate and deep-felt aversion to everything to do with the military and the warrior-must be set aside. This is because the first principle of psychological method holds that any phenomenon to be understood must be sympathetically imagined. No syndrome can be truly dislodged from its cursed condition unless we first move imagination into its heart. War is first of all a psychological task, perhaps first of all psychological tasks because it threatens your life and mine directly, and the existence of all living beings. The bell tolls for thee, and all. Nothing can escape thermonuclear rage, and if the burning and its aftermath are unimaginable, their cause, war, is not. War is also a psychological task because philosophy and theology, the fields supposed to do the heavy thinking for our species, have neglected war's overriding importance. "War is the father of all," said Heraclitus at the beginnings of Western thought, which Emmanuel Levinas restates in recent Western thought as "being reveals itself as war." l If it is a primordial component of being, then war fathers the very structure of existence and our thinking about it: our ideas of the universe, of religion, of ethics; war determines the thought patterns of Aristotle's logic of opposites, Kant's antinomies, Darwin's natural selection, Marx's struggle of classes, and even Freud's repression of the id by the ego and superego. We think in warlike terms, feel ourselves at war with ourselves, and unknowingly believe predation, territorial defense, conquest, and the interminable battle of opposing forces are the ground rules of existence. Yet, for all this, has ever a major Western philosopher-with the great exception 'of Thomas Hobbes, whose Leviathan was published three and a half centuries ago-delivered a full-scale assault on the topic, or given it the primary importance war deserves in the hierarchy of themes? Immanuel Kant came to it late (1795) with a brief essay written when he was past seventy and after he had published his main works. He states the theme of this chapter in a few words much like Hobbes: "The state of peace among men living side by side is not the natural state; the natural state is one of war." Though war is the primary human condition, his focus is upon "perpetual peace" which is the title of his essay. About peace philosophers and theologians have much to say, and we shall take up peace in our stride. Fallen from the higher mind's central contemplation, war tends to be examined piecemeal by specialists, or set aside as "history" where it then becomes a subchapter called "military history" in the hands of scholars and reporters dedicated to the record of facts . Or its study is placed outside the mainstream, isolated in policy institutions (often at war themselves with rival institutions). The magic of their thinking transmutes killing into "taking out," bloodshed into "body counts," and the chaos of battle into "scenarios," "game theory;' "cost benefits;' as weapons become "toys" and bombs "smart." Especially needed is not more specialist inquiry into past wars and future wars, but rather an archetypal psychology-the myths, philosophy, and theology of war's deepest mind. That is the purpose of this book.</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">COIN Negative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Afghanistan" PIC</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The name Afghanistan is the product of colonial domination </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rupee News ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rupee News “The British constructed ‘Afghanistan’ as a buffer state from remnants of Khorasan”. July 15, 2010. http://rupeenews.com/2010/07/15/the-origins-of-the-british-construct-of-afghanistan-buffer-lie-in-the-state-of-khorasan/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Afghans did not create their own country. Afghanistan was created by a treaty between Russia and Great Britain. Throughout the 19th Century, the two major forces in Asia were the British, who were slowly moving North, and the Russians, who were slowly moving South. Britain gradually took over the entire Indian sub-continent and, during the same period of time, the forces of the Czar of Russia were taking over Turkic speaking areas, such as Samarkand and Bukhara. Peter the Great of Russia had decreed that Russia must find a warm-water port. The British feared that Russia would try to establish that warm water port in Karachi. Meanwhile, Yakub Beg, the ruler of Kashgar in Turkestan, wanted to establish a country called “Greater Turkestan”, which would encompass a two thousand mile long Turkish speaking area, from Urumqi in the Xinjiang Republic of China, to Istanbul. Both the Russians and the Chinese were terrified at the prospect of such a large country at their borders. Yakub Beg had invited the British to come to Kashgar and the Russians were worried about this. Therefore, the Russians and the British made a deal. The Russians would stay North of the Oxus River. The British would stay south of the crest of the Himalayas. In order to make sure that neither country would come into conflict with the other, a sort of no-mans land was set up. A buffer state was created which would be in between the Russian and the British Empires. The name of that Buffer State was Afghanistan, the place of the Afghans. No such country had existed previously. This is the reason why an arm of Afghanistan reaches out and touches China. That arm is called the Wakhan Corridor. There, the northern border of Afghanistan is the Oxus River. The southern border is the crest of the Himalayas and Hindu Kush mountains, which converge together at that point. It was important to the British that Russia never touch India. For this reason, the Wakhan Corridor, which is only eight miles wide at its narrowest point, was made part of Afghanistan and was extended to touch China. While these negotiations were going on, the Russians were holding the King of Afghanistan in jail. Pursuant to their agreement to set up the buffer state of Afghanistan, the Russians agreed to let King Abdul Rehman out of jail. They returned him to his country. In 1891, the British drew what became known as the Durand Line. Everything North and West of that line was Afghanistan. Everything South and East of the line was British India, an area which is now in Pakistan. Dr. Tajammal Naveed a fellow activist and investigative historian has researched the state of Afghanistan at length and has described the creation of the artificial state by the British. Afghanistan was created by imperial edicts of Britain and Russia—and served to keep their armies away from each other. In a brilliant discourse, Dr. Tajammal Navved refutes the nonsense published by one of the most Anti-Pakistan sites on the internet—The Huffington Post. He repudiates the manufactured history narrated by the Neocon’s Neocon Dr. Rashid Ahmed. Dr. Rashid is a darling of the West, because he says what the CIA wants to hear. Dr. Rashid works in a non-descript university in Islamabad known more for what happens after dusk than what happens after dawn. It is an open admission party school where the progeny of Islamabad’s spoilt party all night long, and sleep during the “classes”. Dr. Rashid and Dr. Hoodbhoy indoctrinate the spoilt brats in Anti-Pakistanism. Dr. Hoodbhoy almost came to blows with Imran Khan, when the PTI leader asked him if he was on the American payroll as a Security analyst. Dr. Hoodbhoy has criticized Islam and has publicly claimed that “he is not proud to be a Pakistani—he is one by happenstance”. The venom spewing out of the university in Islamabad has grave consequences—Dr. Rashid and Dr. Hoodbhoy are quoted by the worst Paksitanphobes in the world, and they use their claptrap for nefarious purposes. The Huff Post is run by a liberal Greek woman who is right on most issues—but her site spews Anti-Pakistan vitriol on a regular basis. Read the following and watch Dr. Tajammal Naveed decimate Michael Hughes—who seems like a paid agent of Bharat Inc. (aka India Inc). In summary the brillian Dr. navved esblaies the following facts: 1) The Afghan state was manufactured by the British 2) The original state was Khorasan which included Pakistan and Afghanisgtan 3) Wrong history is being taught to the progeny of the Khorasanis 4) The British allowed “Afghans” to enter the “Pakistan” (the latest avatar of the Indus Valley Civilization). This is a recent phenomenon in Subcontinental terms 5) The Pakistan Civilization (aka Indus Valley Civilization) is five thousand years old. It thrived as an urban civilization when most of Europe and America was frozen during the ice age.The people of the Indus lived, worked and prayed together when “Aghanistan” was arid desert and Hindustan (aka Bharat aka India) was jungle 6) Pakistan is five thousand years old—way before Afghanistan or India even existed—or could support human existence. In a sense the Paksitani Civilzation preceded the Chinese and the Egyptian civilization. In the IVC people up the river traded with people down the river. Thus the Kashmiris cut logs and send them down the Indus, and the Pakhtuns caught them, and built hoses in Punjab with them. The Sindhis and the Punjabis and Baloch lived on the same river and sent food up and down the river. 7) How can you balkanize geography. How can you break an eco system. How can you divide a living organism. Dr. Tajammal Naveed can define this more eloquently in the following words. Any academic discourse one needs to verify the facts before venturing to give a point of view. As far as the voicing of your opinion is concerned, it needs more in-depth study. Furthermore, as far as the feelings of your good friends from Qandahar are concerned; if they have been fed wrong history then they, too, are at fault for having read wrong books. Ahmed Rashid may be an author who appeals to your perceptions and has probably resulted in your present article under critique, as well, but whatever you may have read of him, I am sorry to say that the fellow, to my mind, is equally clueless of the subject. No wonder you took the liberty of writing such a nasty piece against our state. Likewise you may have studied various books on the history of Afghanistan, but it seems you never took time out to study the actual books which are regarded, till now, the main reference books on the subject matter. It is in these books that you will find the real geographic name of this region – now called Afghanistan or the rationale of its creation by the British Empire builders. Please keep in mind, no insult intended for your faulty perceptions – as will be explained subsequently by the references in my reply – that One learns all one’s life. So take it in that spirit, like a man. You had written an article on the dismemberment of my state, however, your reply to my critique is based on side issues focused on ‘’Afghanistan’ and the Naxalities , as well as your displeasure why I roped in Nazi Germany with the Hindutva State of Brahmans called India. Kindly remember that it was on account of the common Swastika symbol and the desire to purge all those races which do not follow their religion or dictates. You are further requested to reply back to my pointed critique and not to divert from the subject. Let me enlighten you on the subject of Afghanistan. To clear your mental fog, historically, the region now called as Afghanistan is known in history, as well as in historical geography, as ‘’Khurassan’’. The boundaries of the said region have varied during the Empires which held it. To answer your Qandahar friends, Ahmed khan who had been the Captain of the Guards of Nadir shah Afsar, and who on Nadir Shah’s assassination in 1747 had proclaimed himself King using the hoarded wealth of the said King – had proclaimed himself as “Badashah of Qandahar”. The Afghan entity did not exist then. You are further requested to read the volumes complied by A.U. AITCHISON, under the head of ‘’A collection of Treaties, Engagements and Sanads, relating to India & Neighboring Countries’’ published from Calcutta. If you study those volumes that cover the early period of the 19th century, only then will you comprehend the dates, as stated in my rebuttal. Next you are advised to read, “The Indian Borderland” a book by Sir Thomas Holdich, published in 1901, in which the author states on page-366, “We have contributed much to give a national entity to that nebulous community which ‘’WE’ call Afghanistan (but which afghans never call it, by that name) by drawing a boundary all around it and elevating it into the position of a buffer state between ourselves and Russia, all this has been done at great expense and with infinite pains…………..the Amir of Afghanistan since 1893 was on a RS.600,000/- subsidy from the British” (page-367). Holdich, to further explain the rationale for the creation of this new entity, states,(page-368) “The new boundary between British empire, Afghanistan and the Czarist Russia was ‘a visible expression of our present determination to set a limit to a ‘forward’ policy; and as such it may be accepted with satisfaction by large number of politicians’’ ……… Michael, keep in mind these figures, too, that are as per “The Imperial Gazetteer of India”(Afghanistan & Nepal ) edition of 1885 (pages-15-16-17) the total population of Afghanistan in that YEAR was, Ghalzi(1,500,000), Tajak(900,000), Hazara (500,000), Char Aimak (180,000), Osbegs (300,000), Kizilbashi(50,000), Hindu traders(35,000), Safis, Kashmiri, Laghmani, Arab, syed, Paracha & Kafirs(60,000). The Afghan/Pushtun numbered (1,245,000). In total the figure came to 4,770,000. In the third decade or so of the 19th century the population was much less. After the Fall of the house of main line Timurids, the Khorassan was divided into administrative provinces or ‘Subas’, with Sarkars and Bolaks. Now you will have to study ,’’An Atlas of The Mughal Empire’ by Irfan Habib, edition of 1982. In the year 1601,the political boundaries of ‘’Khurassan’ were as, ‘Subas of Balkh, Badakhshan, Kabul & Qandahar. By 1648 the Mughals had lost Qandahar Suba to Iranian Safavids. Earlier the regions across Helmand i.e Farah, Qila Fatah and Seistan were already with Iran inclusive of Herat. And by 1738/39 the only Suba under control of Mughal was Kabul. Kindly now read a few other books, though I can refer many more from my personal library, however, the following will suffice for now; Tabakat e Nasiri translation by Raverty- 1881 edition, authored by Mulanna Minhaj Usman (1260AD), Tariekh e Tabri by al Tabri (900 AD) 43 volumes in English or the limited 9 volume English translation of Shah Nama e Firduasi. The answer in all these will show that the area in dispute has always been, ’’KHURASSAN’’. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Using the name “Afghanistan” endorses a history of violence and colonization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nazary ‘06</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ali Maisam Nazary is a student in Politics at UCLA who was born in Kabul. He is a contributor to Khawaran Magazine and has a weekly TV show. June 2006. “Name Change in Afghanistan.” [[http://archive.khawaran.com/Engl_AliMuslimNazari_NameChangeInAfghanistan.htm]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even to this day most people did not know when the name “Afghanistan” was initially used. However, the name has caused rifts and tension between people, especially Pashtuns and non-Pashtuns. Today in Afghanistan we have a so-called Theocratic Democracy and so it is the people’s right and responsibility to choose the name of their own country. We know that “Afghanistan” means “land of Afghans” or “land of Pashtuns” and the non-Pashtun majority were never asked whether or not they wish to accept this name. This is one of the major reasons why Afghanistan has always had ethnic tensions and ethnic discriminations. Non-Pashtuns feel that their rights as citizens have been undermined or taken away by naming this land “The land of Pashtuns.” Unlike other countries in the region, Afghanistan is made up of ethnic minorities and there has never been an ethnic majority. Nowadays when a Tajik or Hazara says “We need a name change” the government labels them as foreign agents and “sellouts.” One example is Latif Pedram, the co-founder of the National Congress Party of Afghanistan. During the presidential elections Pedram said that the country needed a name change and as a consequence he was almost thrown out of the elections. The word “Afghanistan” was first mentioned in English. When the British invaded Afghanistan their invasion spread from Attock to Kabul. Most of the invaded lands were predominantly Afghans or Pashtuns and therefore the British had no clue that there were also non-Pashtuns in other parts of the country. When the British overthrew Dost Mohammad Khan they proclaimed Shah Shuja the king of the Afghans and they started calling this little kingdom which was from Kabul to the Indus River “Afghan land.” This proves that it wasn’t the Pashtuns who named this country “Afghanistan” but the foreign imperialist British. But this name was not officially recognized and when Dost Mohamad Khan becomes Amir again he named himself “Amir e Khorasan” or “Amir of Khorasan.” The oldest recorded document that has the Farsi version of Afghan land is the Gandomak Treaty signed by Sher Ali Khan, grandson of Dost Mohamad Khan. The Farsi version of the Gandomak Treaty has the word Afghanistan written on it. “Afghan” is synonymous with Pashtun and “Istan” translates to “land” in Persian. This treaty was dictated and written by the British. This illustrates that Afghanistan was not a name that the citizens chose or even agreed upon. Instead, it was a name that Imperialist powers forced upon us. The first time which a ruler proclaimed that the official name of this land was Afghanistan was during the era of Abdur Rahman Khan. After the Durand Treaty in 1893, the government of Afghanistan officially recognized the name “Afghanistan.” Abdur Rahman Khan tried to Pashtunize the country by forcing non-Pashtuns – especially those in the south and east – to move northward. He also started the Hazara Genocide which killed 75% of the Hazara population. Praising the name “Afghanistan” is praising Abdur Rahman Khan and the English and their actions. Today most non-Pashtuns have started organizations, website, and have written books on why we need a name change. They understand that if the name isn’t changed then there will never be national unity. It is the people’s choice, and not the government, on what the name of the country should be. It is, after all, where they live, work, and die. We need to understand that democracy guarantees this right. And if democracy truly exists in Afghanistan then we need to act now or the country will face the consequences in the future with civil and sectarian violence. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rejection of the name “Afghanistan” in favor of “Khorasan” is a prerequisite to rejecting linguistic colonialism and domination</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Tajikam ‘08</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Team Tajikam is a team of Tajiks who are upset with the current oppression and Pashto domination. February 5 2008. “I am Tajik, not Afghan.” http://www.fravahr.org/spip.php?article424</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The threat of being called a “traitor” and a “foreigner” hangs over those who dare tread upon the topic of national identity. For the longest time, the term “Afghan” has been pushed upon every ethnic group of Afghanistan and for years, that is what Tajiks, Hazaras, Uzbeks, Turkmans, and other non-Pashtuns were known by the rest of the world. Today, however, it needs to be made clear that “Afghan” is not the rightful national identity for the country. The history behind the word “Afghan” is disputable due to various sources of where it originated from. However, one thing is clear: “Afghan” has always been synonymous with Pashtun. Writers and travellers to and from the country have stated that the word “Afghan” was always used to distinguish between the Pashtuns and non-Pashtuns such as the Tajiks, Hazaras, etc. The name of country is believed to have been given by the British when they first invaded it in the 19th century. The areas that they encountered were predominantly Pashtun and since they knew “Afghan” as synonymous with “Pashtun”. They therefore erroneously declared the entire country as “Land of the Afghan” or Afghanistan. And even though the majority of Afghanistan isn’t even Afghans, the name has stuck since then. Before the invention of the “Afghanistan”, the land used to be known as other names: Ariana and Khorasan, with the most recent being Khorasan. The region was called Khorasan for 1500 years and the name was fairer and represented the state as well as the people better. It clearly doesn’t favour one ethnicity over another. As Khorasan, the region was once an advancing civilization and embodied many ethnicities. However, as the Pashtun nomads entered and invaded the regions, they scattered and spread over, imposing their existence as well as a need for a country. Now, it doesn’t take a Ph.D. — self-taught or not — to figure out that those events were not just. And no matter what changes the country and the people have gone through, the term “Afghan” is not a legitimate one. Tajiks and Hazaras and Uzbeks and other non-Pashtuns were never and will never be Afghan. When the literal term of a word obviously means something you are not why would you be crazy enough to fight for the right to be called one? By non-Pashtuns adamantly choosing to call themselves Afghan just because they want peace and quiet, they are inadvertently throwing their rights and their heritage away. Losing your identity as a Hazara or a Tajik, Uzbek, or Turkman, you are being oppressed and your heritage and history is being rewritten to those who crawled out of the Suleiman Mountains. When you don’t even speak the language of an Afghan (supposedly Pashto) then why call yourself one? There are a lot of people that will threaten you if you refuse to call yourself an Afghan when you aren’t one. They will call you a “traitor” or “foreigner” and try to get the mass against you. There is a full culture and history behind the names of “Tajik” and “Hazara”, etc. When the world thinks of “Afghans” hardly anything good will come to mind. It is often associated with the horrors of Ahmad Shah Abdali, paedophilia, the Taliban, and now drug dealers. Though there are some bad within non-Pashtuns, they, however, have contributed greatly to the world and to civilization. When you begin to associate yourself with what you rightfully are, you will see just how rich your past is. Rumi, Avicenna, Ferdowsi, they were not Afghans and would never have called themselves one. The national identity is constantly surrounded by lies and deceit. Pashto is trying to be pushed upon those who have no need for it, the word Afghan is insisted upon even though the majority of Afghanistan isn’t even Pashtun. Afghans have always and will always be known as Pashtuns only. A Tajik and an Uzbek and other non-Pashtuns are separate and they should be known as separate. When this comes to light, only then will the people be able to gain the rest of their rights. Only then will the name of the country be forced to change because it isn’t a fair representation of the majority of the people. The people who don’t wish to call themselves Afghan are not trying to start trouble. Instead, they have opened their eyes and trying to open the eyes of others to the mistake and the lie that has covered the entire people. Issues like these need to be discussed because even though they might seem minor, they are in fact major. If the name non-Pashtuns choose to call themselves isn’t such a “big deal” then why are people trying so hard to fight those that decline the name Afghan? </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Naming is not benign—the naming of a land naturalizes colonization</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stuckey and Murphy ‘01</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">MARY E. STUCKEY, an associate professor of communication and political science at Georgia State University, AND JOHN M. MURPHY, an associate professor of speech communication at the University of Georgia, “By Any Other Name: Rhetorical Colonialism in North America,” Journal American Indian Culture and Research Journal , 25, 4 / 2001, Pages 73-98</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nations, as Ernest Gellner notes, are not inevitable. There are a variety of ways for humans to organize themselves and their lives, and doing so around the idea of nationality is but one such way, reflecting one set of historical, political, and economic circumstances.(FN27) The idea of a nation embodying a people is, as many have argued, a fiction, a creation brought about by a specific sort of historical necessity and specific kinds of rhetorical action.(FN28) Once invented, however, nations require certain elements for their sustenance and growth, and a certain sort of language with which to maintain and perpetuate themselves.(FN29) In the colonial context of North America, this language reflected, reinforced, and received support from the very fact of colonization.(FN30) The ways in which the colonists understood, spoke, and wrote about the land and its inhabitants justified the colonial project, which in turn set in motion processes that reinforced the colonists' understanding of themselves and the world.(FN31) In do doing, naming naturalized the process of colonization, reflecting and reinforcing colonial power.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Colonial language produces physical violence and justifies oppression of the colonized</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Stuckey and Murphy ‘01</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">MARY E. STUCKEY, an associate professor of communication and political science at Georgia State University, AND JOHN M. MURPHY, an associate professor of speech communication at the University of Georgia, “By Any Other Name: Rhetorical Colonialism in North America,” Journal American Indian Culture and Research Journal , 25, 4 / 2001, Pages 73-98</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The fragile ability of resident cultures to resist colonialization does not deny the fact of colonization, nor does it reduce its violence: "Colonization is violence, and there are many ways to carry out that violence."(FN35) The imposition of a particular linguistic world is one such way. A terminology may allow colonizers to see their new nation as unified, but that pretense is based upon the denial of indigenous identity, a denial that is violent. As Paulo Friere says, Cultural invasion, which serves the ends of conquest and the preservation of oppression, always involves a parochial view of reality, a static perception of the world, and the imposition of one world view upon another. It implies the "superiority" of the invader and the "inferiority" of those who are invaded, as well as the imposition of values by the former, who possess the latter and are afraid of losing them.(FN36)</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Coin Good/Winning The War Now</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The US will win - multiple reasons**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">O’Hanlon ‘09</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “In Afghanistan, The Odds Are With Us,” Brookings, December 14th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/1214_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We face huge challenges in Afghanistan, to be sure. No one watching the news, or hearing President Barack Obama’s sober tone on Dec. 1 at West Point, or listening to testimony from Gen. Stanley McChrystal and Ambassador Karl Eikenberry last week, could doubt that basic reality. But in these serious, difficult times, it is worth remembering all the things that actually are working in our favor in Afghanistan now. First, Afghans want a better future for themselves. This is true for Afghans in their own country, as well as for the Diaspora of Afghans around the world — many of whom have moved back home to help build a new country, others of whom stand ready to invest, trade and assist in other ways. Most Afghans reject war. They also reject the Taliban, by 90 percent or more in most polls. Among the majority of the Afghan people who are not Pashtun, in fact, support for the Taliban is virtually zero. Even among the Durrani, one of the two main Pashtun tribal groupings, support for the Taliban has been limited (the Taliban’s main support has come from the Pashtun Ghilzai tribes). The Taliban is not a popular insurgency. It is in equal parts a narco-terrorist organization willing to use drug smuggling to finance its operations, an extremist Islamist movement with an intolerant view of nonbelievers and a backward view of the role of women, and a ruthless organization willing to use brutal violence against innocent, law-abiding citizens to impose its version of Islam. Yes, it has achieved impressive discipline in its ranks in some ways, and battlefield momentum as well, but it has no positive vision for the country — and Afghans know it. There are also many good and committed “average citizens” in the country today. In Kandahar City citizens are telling authorities about the locations of up to 80 percent of all improvised explosive devices before they go off, allowing security forces to defuse them. This high percentage, higher than ever witnessed in Iraq, further suggests that our efforts to quell the Taliban may have found unexpected support from the general population in one of the Taliban strongholds, support that a counterinsurgency can build upon. Progress is apparent in other places too. In the town of Nawa in Helmand Province, for example, an infusion of U.S. forces in 2009 has turned a previously lawless area held by the Taliban into a relatively secure area where ordinary people can begin to get back to their daily lives. Second, elements of the Afghan security forces are improving fast. This is most true for the army. With NATO’s International Security Assistance Force focused intently now on proper training and mentoring, the building of Afghan security forces that can protect their own people should accelerate. Third, life in Afghanistan has actually improved somewhat compared with the recent past. Yes, the progress is uneven, and the poor remain very badly off. But overall the economy, education, healthcare and similar indicators are moving more in the right direction than the wrong one. Material progress has contributed to a reservoir of goodwill among the Afghan people toward those in authority. President Karzai, the United States, and NATO all still enjoyed at least 60 percent support from the population as of summer 2009 — far better than the United States has enjoyed in Iraq. This popularity number is fragile, and uneven among different groups, but we do have some advantages in how the Afghan public views the situation nonetheless. Fourth, NATO in general and the United States in particular know how to carry out counterinsurgency missions better than ever before. Troops are experienced in the art of counterinsurgency and knowledgeable about Afghanistan. We also have excellent commanders, starting with Central Command Combatant Cmdr. Gen. David Petraeus and Gen. McChrystal, who directs both the NATO forces and the separate, U.S.-led counterterrorism force carrying out Operation Enduring Freedom there. Commanders at much lower levels of authority, the ones who execute the strategy day in and day out, are also seasoned and quite smart in the ways of this type of warfare. The importance of good leadership in counterinsurgency is very significant, and our strengths in this area are a major asset. Fifth, enough troops are now on the way. Until now, on the ground, troop shortages prevented combined Afghan and NATO forces from securing many districts, towns and villages. Worse, it left troops stalemated in dangerous situations over extended periods of time because they did not have the capacity to seize land and sustain control. It left NATO forces relying too heavily on air strikes with all their potential to cause accidental deaths of innocents (a policy that McChrystal has changed; air strikes are generally allowed now only if NATO troops are in direct peril). And it left Afghan citizens who cooperate with NATO and their government vulnerable to reprisal. Only in 2009 did these realities finally begin to change; only in 2010 will we achieve reasonable overall force rations. To predict success outright would be to go too far. But I honestly believe that, setting our sights at a reasonable level, the odds are with us in this important mission.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The war is winnable – larger numbers of troops, decreased civilian casualties and growing Afghan security forces will cause a peace deal</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Their ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">J. Alexander, director for Afghanistan and Pakistan at the US Institute of Peace, “Afghanistan’s Rocky Path to Peace,” Current History, April, http://www.usip.org/files/afghanistan/Thier%20-%20Path%20to%20Peace%20-%20Current%20History.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But several factors could conspire to change their calculus. The first is the war itself. Obama’s deployment decisions will essentially double the number of forces in the country this year. The Afghan security forces are also growing—and some are getting better at their jobs. The bigger force numbers, moreover, are accompanied by a new counterinsurgency strategy, one that looks likely to produce effects more lasting than those generated by the Bush administration’s “economy of force” strategy, which involved too few troops to secure territory won through battle. NATO also seems finally to have figured out how to reduce Afghan civilian casualties, depriving the insurgency of a key propaganda asset at a moment when militants are killing more civilians than ever. The United Nations estimates that in 2008 the Afghan and international military forces killed 828 civilians, and the insurgents killed 1,160. In 2009, the numbers were 596 and 1,630 respectively. The war on the Pakistani side of the border, involving drone aircraft, has also been stepped up, and both the Pakistani Taliban’s top leader and his replacement have been picked off in such strikes in recent months. It is unclear whether guided missile attacks have been used against Afghan insurgent targets in Pakistan as yet, but certainly the capability exists. If all this adds up to a change in military momentum, popular attitudes might change, costing the Taliban support and increasing the number of people willing to inform or even fight against them.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Pakistan crackdown spilling over to Afghanistan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagl ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">John, President of the Center for a New American Security, and Visiting Professor in the Department of War Studies at King’s College, “The proposer's opening remarks,” The Economist online debate, 5/17, http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/516</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Because many of these threats of terrorist sanctuary and regional instability emanate from territory inside Pakistan, that country must confront terrorism within its borders and curtail its clandestine support for extremist factions if the coalition is to succeed in Afghanistan. Fortunately, during 2009 there were dramatic changes in the Pakistani government's willingness to wage war against insurgents, who increasingly threaten its survival. Militants' attacks into heartland provinces like Swat and Buner galvanised a previously indifferent Pakistani public and military to stand up to the militants and drive them back. A pending attack on North Waziristan—the stronghold of the Pakistani Taliban and the last significant remaining safe area for insurgents—promises to put further pressure on the enemy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Troops forcing Taliban to crumble</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagl, 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">John, President of the Center for a New American Security, and Visiting Professor in the Department of War Studies at King’s College, “The proposer's opening remarks,” The Economist online debate, 5/17, http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/516</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We waited until 2009 to give the Afghan conflict the resources that success will require. While we focused on Iraq, the Taliban regained strength and reinstituted its previous reign of terror in much of southern and eastern Afghanistan. But with the war in Iraq winding down and a determined international focus on Afghanistan and Pakistan, it is possible over the next five years to build an Afghan government that can outperform the Taliban and an Afghan army that can outfight it, especially with the support of a Pakistani government that continues its own efforts on its side of the Durand Line. During his visit to Washington, President Karzai discussed with President Barack Obama how the political and military efforts are faring and what endstate America will be willing to accept from Taliban negotiators, who are beginning to seek reconciliation with the Afghan government. The fact that elements of the Taliban are contemplating reconciliation is the single best piece of evidence that a successful outcome is possible in an Afghanistan that will require long-term security assistance from the West, but that with that assistance can achieve a reasonable degree of stability.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Afghan economy is improving and the population supports the U.S.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bergen,’09</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Peter, Senior Fellow and the co-director of the Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency Initiative at the New America Foundation, 7/1/09, “Winning the Good War,” http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/winning_good_war_15908</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Why should we believe that the alternative offered by the Obama administration--committing large numbers of boots on the ground and significant sums of money to Afghanistan--has a better chance of success? In part, because the Afghan people themselves, the center of gravity in a counterinsurgency, are rooting for us to win. BBC/ABC polling found that 58 percent of Afghans named the Taliban--who only 7 percent of Afghans view favorably--as the greatest threat to their nation; only 8 percent said it was the United States. There are other positive indices. Refugees don't return to places they don't think have a future, and more than four million Afghan refugees have returned home since the fall of the Taliban. (By contrast, about the same number of Iraqi refugees fled their homes after the American-led invasion of their country in 2003, and few have returned.) There are also more than two million Afghan kids in schools, including, of course, many girls. Music, kites, movies, independent newspapers, and TV stations--all of which were banned under the Taliban--are now ubiquitous. One in six Afghans now has a cell phone, in a country that didn't have a phone system under the Taliban. And, according to the World Bank, the 2007 GDP growth rate for Afghanistan was 14 percent. Under Taliban rule the country was so poor that the World Bank didn't even bother to measure its economic indicators. Today 40 percent of Afghans say their country is going in the right direction (only 17 percent of Americans felt the same way in the waning months of the Bush administration). Considering Afghanistan's rampant drug trade, pervasive corruption, and rising violence, this may seem counterintuitive--until you recall that no country in the world has ever suffered Afghanistan's combination of an invasion and occupation by a totalitarian regime followed by a civil war, with subsequent "government" by warlords and then the neo-medieval misrule of the Taliban. In other words, the bar is pretty low. No Afghan is expecting that the country will turn into, say, Belgium, but there is an expectation that Afghanistan can be returned to the somewhat secure condition it enjoyed in the 1970s before the Soviet invasion, and that the country will be able to grow its way out of being simply a subsistence agricultural economy. Obama's Afghanistan strategy is well poised to deliver on these expectations because it primarily emphasizes increased security for the Afghan people--the first public good that Afghans want. In the south of Afghanistan, where the insurgency is the most intense, the U.S. is deploying two Marine brigades and a Stryker brigade, 17,000 soldiers in all, to supplement the thinly stretched British, Dutch, and Canadian forces in the region. These are not the kind of units that do peacekeeping; they will go in and clear areas of the Taliban and, most crucially, hold them. This will be a major improvement in a region where NATO forces have often had enough manpower to clear areas but not to hold them. One Western diplomat in Kabul joked grimly to me that every year in the south NATO soldiers have gone in to "mow the lawn." This time the idea is not to let the grass grow back.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Increasing civilian aid to Afghanistan will stop the insurgency</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Their ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">J. Alexander, director for Afghanistan and Pakistan at the US Institute of Peace, “Afghanistan’s Rocky Path to Peace,” Current History, April, http://www.usip.org/files/afghanistan/Thier%20-%20Path%20to%20Peace%20-%20Current%20History.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Increased credibility of Afghan and international civilian efforts also could have an impact on public opinion. While most Afghans do not support the Taliban, they have had little incentive to risk their necks for a government widely viewed as corrupt and ineffective. If the Afghan government and its international partners can present a compelling, plausible alternative to the Taliban, backed by significant new investments in delivery of services and good governance, the environment will become less hospitable for the insurgents. The Afghan government and NATO have also launched a massive new reintegration effort intended to lure insurgent soldiers and low-level commanders off the battlefield. If this program succeeds in demobilizing combatants and safely reintegrating them into society, prospects for defeating the rebels would brighten.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">New mineral discoveries in Afghanistan solve instability – multiple warrants</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">O’Hanlon ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy @ Brookings, Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy @ Brookings, "Deposits Could Aid Ailing Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 16th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0616_afghanistan_minerals_ohanlon.aspx</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, the mineral deposits: The Defense Department’s office for economic investment activities in war zones, headed by the formidable Paul Brinkley, has concluded that Afghanistan may, in fact, be rich. Not just in its poppies, or its ability to attract foreign aid, but in actual resource wealth buried in the ground. Its iron, copper, lithium and other deposits may be worth more than $1 trillion. If they can generate even $10 billion a year for the Afghan state, that would nearly double the nation’s gross national product. This could also provide a long-term funding source for Afghan security forces and other major national needs. Critics and skeptics point out that resource wealth is often corrupting, especially in developing countries. Some of the world’s biggest producers of key minerals, gems and oil, for example, are among the world’s most kleptocratic economies. For such income streams often benefit only a narrow stratum of society rather than the population as a whole. They can also skew exchange rates, in what is known as “Dutch disease” — making it harder for farmers and small businessmen to sell goods abroad. Such concerns are real, and Afghans have to be attentive to this risk as they design contracts for the mining work. But mineral wealth will hardly introduce corruption, which is already well established in the country. Indeed, mineral wealth could provide the Afghan government and international community with opportunities to tackle some key economic problems that have long plagued the country. With the right strategy, it could even help reduce corruption. First, it could provide a long-term funding source that could gradually replace foreign aid. It could pay for Afghanistan’s army and police force, schools, health clinics and infrastructure, like the irrigation systems and roads needed by farmers. Lack of such prospective funding is partly why Afghanistan’s government has not been able to build adequate security forces or infrastructure. Second, with the money from natural wealth, Kabul could increase salaries of key ministers and other government employees. This would, in turn, deprive these officials of the excuse to take bribes to compensate for unacceptably low paychecks. Combined with improved means of ferreting out corrupt officials — which has already led to arrest or indictment of as many as 20 officials this year — the new funding source could help address corruption over the long term.Claiming a big turnaround from this recent news would go too far. The Taliban and Haqqani network still need to be weakened on the battlefield, and Afghan governance needs to improve quite a bit. But there is indeed reason for hope in Afghanistan. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US Operations destroying terrorism in Afghanistan and Pakistan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Finel and Difo ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bernard and Germain, *Director of Research and Senior Fellow at the American Security Project **AND** policy analyst for counterterrorism at ASP, “Are We Winning? Mid-Year Update New Indications of Progress and Lingering Concerns in the Fight against al Qaeda,” http://www.americansecurityproject.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/AWW-Mid-Year-Update-FINAL.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Though their connection to trends in Islamist violence appears relatively slight when taken alone, developments in Afghanistan gain a much greater measure of importance when considered in conjunction with developments across the border in Pakistan. Over the past year we have seen Pakistani forces engage in a large scale, effective military effort aimed at dislodging radical Islamist insurgents inside Pakistan—including Pakistani Taliban and Afghan Taliban leaders.7 The Pakistanis have yet to move in force against terrorist networks operating in the tribal areas of North Waziristan—where Osama bin Laden is presumed to be hiding—but recent developments have made the Pakistani “safe haven” notably less safe for at least some radicals. It is possible to overstate the impact of these developments. After all, Pakistan continues to pursue an amibivalent policy toward Islamist terrorist groups, continuing tacit support for the anti-Indian group Lashkar-e-Taiba for instance. Despite Pakistan’s recent aggressive moves against some Islamist elements, therefore, al Qaeda’s safe havens in Pakistan ultimately remain more at risk from U.S. drones and other air assets than from direct Pakistani intervention. Ultimately, radical groups in South Asia are currently under more pressure than at any time since September 11, 2001. They are being squeezed by Pakistani and American military action, under siege from American aerial assault, facing a continued loss of popularity due to association with indiscriminate violence, and are hard-pressed to argue that their victory is inevitable. While we often overestimate the benefits of additional pressure and underestimate the ability of these groups to operate even in the face of active suppression, the trends are on the whole beneficial and perhaps self-reinforcing.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Counter Terrorism Turns</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Shell</span>==== 




**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Shifting to counterterrorism prevents intelligence gathering, devastates our ability to operate where Taliban and Al-Qaeda operate, alienates our allies and increases terrorism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Riedel and O’Hanlon ‘09</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bruce, Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” Brookings, September 24th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The fundamental reason that a counterterrorism-focused strategy fails is that it cannot generate good intelligence. Al-Qaeda and the Taliban know not to use their cellphones and satellite phones today, so our spy satellites are of little use in finding extremists. We need information from unmanned low-altitude aircraft and, even more, from people on the ground who speak the language and know the comings and goings of locals. But our Afghan friends who might be inclined to help us with such information would be intimidated by insurgent and terrorist forces into silence — or killed if they cooperated — because we would lack the ability to protect them under a counterterrorism approach. Afghan forces simply do not have the capacity to do the protecting themselves at this point and, given the challenges of building up new institutions in Afghanistan after decades of war, will not have the ability until at least 2012. Even that distant date will be postponed further if we do not deploy enough forces to mentor and partner with Afghans as they build up an army and police force largely from scratch. This adds up to a prescription for a drying up of intelligence. The second reason a counterterrorism-oriented strategy would fail is that, if we tried it, we would likely lose our ability to operate unmanned aircraft where the Taliban and al-Qaeda prefer to hide. Why? If we pulled out, the Afghan government would likely collapse. The secure bases near the mountains of the Afghan-Pakistan border, and thus our ability to operate aircraft from them, would be lost. Our ability to go after Afghan resistance fighters would deteriorate. And the recent momentum we have established in going after Pakistani extremists would be lost. For those who have forgotten the realities of the 1990s — when we tried to go after Osama bin Laden without access to nearby bases by using ships based in the Indian Ocean — the two- to four-hour flight times of drones and cruise missiles operating off such ships made prompt action to real-time intelligence impractical. Third, we would likely lose our allies with this approach. A limited mission offers nothing to the Afghans, whose country is essentially abandoned to the Taliban, or to the Pakistanis, who would similarly see this as the first step toward cut and run. The NATO allies would also smell in a "reduced" mission the beginning of withdrawal; some if not most might try to beat us to the exit. Once the Taliban is back in power in Afghanistan, al-Qaeda will not be far behind. Our top nemesis will be able to salvage a victory in the very place from which it launched the 9/11 attacks eight years ago. Al-Qaeda will have its favorite bases and sanctuaries back, as well as a major propaganda win. A major setback, a major danger Given how badly the situation in Afghanistan has deteriorated since 2001, we might ultimately have to fall back on a narrow counterterrorism option. But that would be a major setback, and a major danger, for the United States — not a clever, lower-cost alternative strategy to what we are pursuing in Afghanistan today. Some say that the stakes aren't that high because al-Qaeda doesn't really need a sanctuary to do its dirty work. But this misses the point and fails to distinguish between the bad and the worse. Having a physical sanctuary, in addition to being able to claim victory against the United States and its allies, would make organization, training and communication far easier for bin Laden and his cronies. The right path remains what President Obama proposed in March — working to protect the Afghan population while building up Afghan state institutions such as the army and police. This approach will take time and perhaps more resources. But alas, in this kind of war, there is little choice. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A shift to a counterterrorism strategy cedes Afghanistan to Al Qaeda and The Taliban – focus diversions allows Taliban to take over which creates terrorists safe havens – the two are explicitly linked</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Roggio ‘09</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bill, an American commentator on military affairs, managing editor of The Long War Journal, published the online weblog The Fourth Rail, was an active duty soldier in the United States Army in the 1990, September 24, “Counterterrorism at the expense of counterinsurgency will doom Afghanistan and Pakistan: US officials” http://www.longwarjournal.org/archives/2009/09/reliance_of_countert.php</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This alternative strategy, which was proposed by Vice President Joe Biden and reported in The New York Times, calls for reducing the US military mission in Afghanistan and ramping up airstrikes and covert raids against the al Qaeda in Pakistan’s tribal areas. "Rather than trying to protect the Afghan population from the Taliban, American forces would concentrate on strikes against Qaeda cells, primarily in Pakistan, using special forces, Predator missile attacks and other surgical tactics," The New York Times reported. "The Americans would accelerate training of Afghan forces and provide support as they took the lead against the Taliban. But the emphasis would shift to Pakistan." But US military and intelligence officials contacted by The Long War Journal warned that a strict focus on a counterterrorism mission concentrating on al Qaeda's leaders in Pakistan would cede the ground in Afghanistan to both the Taliban and al Qaeda and would have only a limited impact on al Qaeda's leadership. A ramped up program of cross-border strikes into Pakistan would also likely lead to the destabilization of Pakistan's government and a possible revolt within the Pakistani military and intelligence services. And, a strategy that focuses heavily on counterterrorism tactics such as unmanned strikes and night raids would only play into the propaganda message of al Qaeda and the Taliban. Strong links between al Qaeda and the Taliban will provide safe havens US officials have warned that focusing on al Qaeda while ignoring the Taliban in both Pakistan and Afghanistan underestimates the close relationships between the groups. "The theory that al Qaeda will not seek shelter with the Afghan Taliban ignores the very lessons we have learned since the Sept. 11 attacks," a US military intelligence official who focuses on al Qaeda and the Taliban told The Long War Journal. "If anything, the relationship between the Taliban and al Qaeda has strengthened, not weakened, over the past few years." The relationship between the Haqqani Network and al Qaeda is cited as the prime example of the increased linkage between the Taliban and al Qaeda. Siraj Haqqani, the military commander of the Haqqani Network, which operates in eastern Afghanistan and in Pakistan's tribal agency of North Waziristan, has close ties to both Mullah Omar and Osama bin Laden. He has recruited both foreign and local fighters to serve as suicide bombers and has employed them against Afghan and Coalition forces. Mullah Sangeen Zadran, a senior Haqqani Network military commander, recently said the relationship between al Qaeda and the Taliban is strong. Sangeen made the statement in an interview with As Sahab, al Qaeda's propaganda arm. According to Sangeen: "All praise is for Allah, Al-Qaeda and Taliban all are Muslims and we are united by the brotherhood of Islam. We do not see any difference between Taliban and Al Qaeda, for we all belong to the religion of Islam. Sheikh Osama has pledged allegiance to Amir Al-Mumineen (Mullah Muhammad Omar) and has reassured his leadership again and again. There is no difference between us, for we are united by Islam and the Sharia governs us. Just as the infidels are one people, so are the Muslims, and they will never succeed in disuniting the Mujahideen, saying that there is Al- Qaeda and Taliban, and that Al-Qaeda are terrorists and extremists. They use many such words, but by the Grace of Allah, it will not affect our brotherly relationship. Now they are also trying to disunite the Taliban, saying that there are two wings, one extremist and another moderate. However, the truth is that we are all one and are united by Islam." The close ties between the Haqqani Network and al Qaeda were highlighted in General Stanley McChrystal's assessment on Afghanistan, which was leaked to The Washington Post. According to McChrystal, the Haqqanis' territories in Khost, Paktika, and Paktia provinces are ripe for al Qaeda camps. "Al Qaeda's links with HQN [Haqqani Network] have grown, suggesting that expanded HQN control could create a favorable environment for AQAM [al Qaeda and allied movements] to re-establish safe-havens in Afghanistan," according to the McChrystal assessment. Withdrawing into bases to conduct raids and Predator/Reaper airstrikes in Pakistan would only allow al Qaeda to prosper in Afghanistan. "If we pull back, the Afghan military will not be able to hold ground, and the Taliban, the Haqqanis, HIG [Gulbuddin Hekmartyr's Hizb-i-Islami faction], and smaller groups will take the ground in much of the South and East, and even in areas in the West and North," a senior US military intelligence official told The Long War Journal. "Once we lose that ground, our access to local intel is hampered," the official said. "We have no doubt al Qaeda and the Taliban will reestablish dominance in short order. The very security of the bases used to conduct the strikes in Pakistan would be in jeopardy.” "There are already Taliban safe havens in many areas in Afghanistan, and al Qaeda trainers and advisers, and even some paramilitary units from Brigade 055 are in Afghanistan," the official continued, referring to one of the brigades of al Qaeda's paramilitary Shadow Army based along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Withdrawing from Afghanistan guarantees perpetual drone strikes and raids which would breed terrorism </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagl ‘10</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">John, President of the Center for a New American Security, and Visiting Professor in the Department of War Studies at King’s College, “The proposer's closing remarks,” The Economist online debate, 5/21, http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/518</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There are no guarantees in war, and this scenario depends upon significant improvements in Afghan government performance along with a continuation of the resolve demonstrated by both the Pakistani and American governments during 2009. It is possible that many or all of these conditions will not be met, making a partial international troop withdrawal more likely. However, this does not mean that the war will end; Peter Galbraith argues that international forces would still be necessary to continue "protecting the non-Pashtun areas from Taliban infiltration … keeping Kabul relatively secure and striking at terrorists". He does not make clear exactly how "just a small fraction of the troops now committed to the war" could accomplish these missions, or when they would be able to stop doing so. This is the critical flaw in Mr Galbraith's argument, and that of anyone who believes that a counterinsurgency strategy cannot succeed in Afghanistan. We cannot simply take our ball and go home; there is a clear and present danger that emanates from the Afghan border region with Pakistan—what the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Michael Mullen, calls "the epicentre of global terrorism". The alternative to a counterinsurgency strategy is an endless counterterrorism campaign against the Taliban's homeland in the Pashtun areas of Afghanistan and Pakistan. This truly would be an unwinnable war: perpetual drone strikes and special operations raids to kill or capture terrorists with no effort to build local security forces or improve local governance to change the dynamics on the ground that breed terror in the first place.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That further destabilizes Afghanistan and South Asia causing nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bergen ‘09</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Peter, senior fellow at the New America Foundation, “Two Arguments for What to Do in Afghanistan,” October 1st, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/10/01/two_arguments_for_what_to_do_in_afghanistan</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> These flawed assumptions underlie the misguided argument that the war in Afghanistan is unwinnable. Some voices have begun to advocate a much smaller mission in Afghanistan, fewer troops and a decapitation strategy aimed at militant leaders carried out by special forces and drone attacks. Superficially, this sounds reasonable. But it has a back-to-the-future flavor because it is more or less the exact same policy that the Bush Administration followed in the first years of the occupation: a light footprint of several thousand U.S. soldiers who were confined to counterterrorism missions. That approach helped foster the resurgence of the Taliban, which continues to receive material support from elements in Pakistan. If a pared-down counterterrorism strategy works no better the second time around, will we have to invade Afghanistan all over again in the event of a spectacular Taliban comeback? Having overthrown the ruling government in 2001, the U.S. has an obligation to leave to Afghans a country that is somewhat stable. And a stabilized Afghanistan is a necessary precondition for a peaceful South Asia, which is today the epicenter of global terrorism and the most likely setting of a nuclear war. Obamas Af-Pak plan has a real chance to achieve a stable Afghanistan if it is given some time to work.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan Navy Turns</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Failure to shore up the carrier fleet will embolden potential adversaries, risking multiple scenarios for great power war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Brookes, senior fellow Heritage Foundation, 2k8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Peter Brookes, Senior Fellow in National Security Affairs at the Heritage Foundation, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs, May 2nd, 2008, “Flattop Follies: Navy Cuts Back on Carriers”, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/05/flattop_follies_navy_cuts_back.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CHECK this: After cutting the number of active aircraft carriers from 12 to 11 last year, the Navy is now requesting Congress' permission to go down from 11 flattops to 10 for the years 2012 to 2015. It gets worse. Maintenance required on nuclear-powered carriers means one ship is always in overhaul in the yards - so we'd actually only have nine carriers available for those years. And some fear that the drop to a 10-carrier force would wind up being permanent. Look: Carriers are vital to our defense needs - the Navy deployed a second carrier this week to Iran's vicinity as what Defense Secretary Robert Gates called a "reminder." Scanning all the potential flashpoints around the world, it's not at all clear that we have enough flattops to meet current - and potential - wartime needs now. How did we get to this point? Basically, the Navy brass are in a bind: The budget is tight, programs are behind schedule and they're trying to avoid sinking the fleet's total of battle-force ships below today's 279 hulls. So the Navy asked Congress to waive current law, which requires 11 carriers to meet wartime needs. (And that minimum was 12 active carriers until last year. . . ) This dispensation would let the Navy retire CVN-65 Enterprise, which at age 50 is past its service life, three years before CVN-78 Gerald R. Ford joins the fleet. The admirals want to prevent new shortfalls in their shipbuilding budget by avoiding a $2.2 billion price tag to keep Enterprise "operational" (on paper, anyway) to meet the letter of the law. Fact is, we need balance in our armed forces to meet a range of challenges, from terrorism to major-power wars. The carrier's combat-strike capability is going to be a key element of that force. And while the fights in Iraq and Afghanistan (and other anti-terror ops) don't always need the punch of a carrier group's ships, planes and submarines daily, other threats would. It's troubling that, like our ground forces, the carrier fleet is also stretched thin. Navy brass already have difficulty meeting the need for carriers. What if another major crisis, such as a serious dust-up in the Taiwan Strait between powerhouse China and its rival Taiwan, comes across our bow? Considering China's military buildup, you can bet that we'll need several (at least) carrier groups to deal with People's Liberation Army's navy and air force. If the Korean peninsula goes up in flames and a million North Korean soldiers pour over the border, we'll need lots of carriers to support South Korea and the nearly 30,000 US GIs and airmen stationed there. Not to mention Russia, another (re)emerging major power, which recently announced plans to build a carrier fleet of its own in support of its growing global interests. Carriers are also handy tools of (gunboat) diplomacy. They provide US policymakers with 90,000 tons of deployable, difficult-to-ignore, cold-steel persuasion, as evidenced by the recent deployment near Iran. Without firing a single shot, the presence of 4.5 acres of floating, sovereign US territory off the coast has given more than one foreign leader pause. At the onset of a crisis, the first words a president often utters are: "Where are the carriers?" A failure to adequately maintain our carrier fleet will embolden potential adversaries. More than one historically great naval power became a shadow of its former self - much to its detriment. Given the challenges we face, how can this nation not afford to maintain a fleet of at least 12 carriers? Remember: Even in a high-tech warfare world, quantity has a quality all its own.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We control uniqueness – US Fleet numbers are dropping in the status quo which cripples our ability to project power and sustain hegemony – only acceleration of the shipbuilding process solves – failure to do so emboldens our enemies and forces the navy to cannibalize other shipbuilding programs</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Eaglen and Doblow, senior policy analyst Heritage Foundation and M.A. world politics, 2k8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mackenzie Eaglen, Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at the Heritage Foundation, Jim Doblow, M.A. candidate in Statecraft and World Politics at the Institute of World Politics in Washington, D.C., “SOS: Congress Must Save the Aircraft Carrier Fleet,” April 2, 2008 [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/wm1880.cfm]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Recently, U.S. Navy leadership sent a proposal to Congress requesting waiver authority to temporarily reduce its current fleet of 11 aircraft carriers to 10 from 2012 through 2015. Congress already approved, after much deliberation, the Navy's request to reduce the fleet from 12 to 11, which resulted in the decommissioning of the John F. Kennedy (CV-67) in 2007. Congress should reject the Navy's latest request. Today's record-low carrier force level is already a substantial reduction from the level achieved by the Reagan Administration's military buildup in the 1980s, when the Navy had set the minimum number of carriers needed to secure the high seas at 15. Congress should continue its robust support of shipbuilding and seek again to increase the shipbuilding account in this year's defense bills. "Quantity Has a Quality All Its Own." In 2006, Navy leaders presented a report to Congress that proposed a fleet of 313 ships, which included 11 aircraft carriers, 48 attack submarines, 88 cruisers and destroyers, 55 littoral combat ships, 31 amphibious ships, and a Maritime Prepositioning Force squadron with 12 new-construction amphibious and sealift-type ships.[[#_ftnref1]][[http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/wm1880.cfm#_ftn1|[1]]] Rebuilding a fleet that has shrunk by more than 50 percent over the past 15 years to 280 deployable ships today must remain a high priority of Navy leaders. Unfortunately, the Navy finds itself in a not-unexpected predicament because of a 33-month gap between the decommissioning of the USS Enterprise (CVN-65) in November 2012 and the September 2015 commissioning of the Big E's replacement, the USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78). After a stellar 51-year career, the Enterprise's nuclear reactors will be spent dry in November 2012. Ironically, the Navy has been aware of this coming train wreck (and did nothing to mitigate it throughout this past decade) ever since leaders briefed Congress at the beginning of the millennium on future carrier force levels. All but absent in the discussion about the Navy's inventory of aircraft carriers is the fact that over the course of the past decade--and for several more decades to follow--one Nimitz-class aircraft carrier will be undergoing a lengthy Refueling and Complex Overhaul (RCOH) at all times. A carrier undergoing an overhaul of this complexity is, for all practical purposes, not efficiently or quickly deployable. In essence, the Navy is already at a backdoor level of 10 aircraft carriers and would trend downward to nine if the Navy gets its way with Congress. Congress must ask whether nine aircraft carriers spread thin between the global areas of responsibility of five different regional Combatant Commanders is an acceptable level of risk. The question must acknowledge that the next engagement of naval forces could involve a nation-state or a non-state actor. Congress should carefully examine whether the Navy currently has enough carriers to meet the service's global commitments. If the Navy has any difficulty meeting combatant commander requirements today, it is inevitable that a trade-off would have to occur in the event that not enough carriers are available upon request during unforeseen circumstances. The question then becomes: How can the nation not afford to maintain a minimum fleet of 11 aircraft carriers? Margin of Risk Is Too High The United States is a maritime nation, and the Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard are the pri­mary guardians of this global status. The Navy's core competencies are to maintain maritime superiority on, below, and above the high seas against all powers, including nation-states and non-state actors. If the Navy is to continue to secure the high seas around the globe long into the 21st century, it needs a robust fleet, both in the quantity of ships and in the quality of its capabilities and technologies. Congress should reject the Navy's waiver request and instead force the Navy to come up with a plan to eliminate the carrier shortfall in 2012.If Congress is serious about the United States Navy maintaining the capability to project firepower for freedom around the globe and not following the path of the Royal Navy, it should not approve this inherently risky gamble. One option for Congress to consider is to accelerate delivery of the USS Gerald R. Ford by increasing the Navy's shipbuilding account in order to place the construction of the Ford on a wartime footing. For example, extra workers could be hired to work three shifts a day, not to mention weekends and holidays. Congress must hold Navy leaders' feet to the fire in order to ensure that the goal of a 12-carrier fleet is achieved by 2019 (or sooner if possible). Given the Navy's tendencies and zeal to retire ships early--ships like Ticonderoga-class cruisers and Los Angeles-class attack submarines--Congress should enact into law an additional requirement that all Nimitz-class carriers be refueled. This requirement would preempt officials at the Office of Management and Budget from eyeing the elimination of RCOHs for purposes of imaginary budgetary savings. Furthermore, the Navy must resist cannibalizing shipbuilding funds for other more urgent priorities if the 313-ship fleet is ever to become a reality. Overall, preserving the shipbuilding program will likely require Congress to continue to increase the Navy's procurement budget as it has loyally done so many times over the last several years. There is little as powerful in the military inventory as 4.5 acres of sovereign U.S. territory that is used to counter and deter threats. In addition to the traditional carrier strike missions, CVNs could be used for expeditionary sea-based platforms for soldiers and marines. Conclusion: Congress should not "go wobbly" on the Navy's request for a waiver from the requirement in 10 USC §5062 that it maintain an aircraft carrier force of at least 11 operational ships. Financing the future Navy fleet is a common-sense necessity for a maritime power. A robust shipbuilding budget for the next 10 to 20 years is necessary in order to reverse the decline in the number of ships in the Navy's inven­tory. Failure in this regard will only embolden U.S. adversaries. The carrier shortfall is another perilous reminder that the defense budget topline is too low for the U.S. military to simultaneously field trained and ready forces, support ongoing operations, and modernize. Congress should commit now to spending 4 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) on national defense in part to meet the military's immediate modernization needs, including its carrier fleet.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A robust aircraft carrier fleet is hey to hegemony – Congress must accelerate procurement now to prevent overstretch</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Fuelner, president Heritage Foundation, 2k8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ed Feulner, president of The Heritage Foundation, April 24th, 2008 “Getting Defensive”, The Washington Times</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In short, a carrier is a critical tool in our military arsenal, an irreplaceable asset that allows our military to project power anywhere, any time. Of course, this much technology, know-how and military might doesn't come cheaply. Carriers are expensive to build, maintain and staff. And we no longer have as many as we need. During the 1980s, the Navy estimated it would require 15 carriers to keep the high seas secure. Today, though, our carrier force is dwindling. Last year Congress decided the U.S. could maintain only 11 carriers. Now, in another attempt to save money, the Navy says it can probably get by with just 10 carriers for awhile before it finally adds a new ship in 2015. Overall, today's Navy boasts only 280 deployable vessels. That's a third less than experts projected we'd need in the "80s. Is the world really one-third safer than it was a generation ago? Let's hope so, because we have just half the number of ships we had at sea 15 years ago. But simple numbers don't tell the whole story. In the years ahead, at least one carrier will be out of service at any given time for what's called a "Refueling and Complex Overhaul." That means our active fleet is already at 10 carriers, so decommissioning another one would actually leave us with only nine in service at any given time. That's simply not enough. The Constitution gives lawmakers the power of the purse, so it's their responsibility to provide for the common defense. That means maintaining a powerful Navy. Lawmakers should insist the Navy keep 12 carriers in service. One way to do that: Speed up the shipbuilding process. The next carrier is set to be finished in 2015. But it could be christened years sooner, if Congress would place the construction on a wartime footing (and we are, after all, at war). By hiring extra workers and running three shifts, the Navy could get the next carrier into service by 2012. It's not as if other countries are standing still. China is building submarines at a frantic pace. By 2025, it could have five times as many subs in the Pacific as the U.S. There's no reason for China to become our enemy — but there's also no excuse for Congress to allow our Navy to be so outgunned, just in case the Chinese become aggressive. Building and repairing ships costs money. But it's more expensive in the long run to start from scratch. Once shipyards close, it's difficult to re-open them, since the skilled workers move on to other jobs. As Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, put it during a recent speech at the Heritage Foundation, we need "a national debate about how much we want to spend on our security in these very dangerous times." Congress should start that discussion by insisting the Navy keep a dozen carriers in service — and supplying the necessary funds. Our sprawling continental nation, bounded by two oceans, needs to be guarded by the world's most powerful Navy. I was honored to be on hand when the newest carrier, the Ronald Reagan, was commissioned in 2003. I've also been on the main deck of the Nimitz to watch the amazing capabilities of the Navy first-hand. If we do the right thing, our country won't have to wait another seven years before the next great carrier comes into service.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Carriers solve the terminal impacts to their offense – a robust fleet prevents crisis escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Eaglen, senior policy analyst national security Heritage Foundation, 2k8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mackenzie Eaglen, Senior Policy Analyst for National Security at the Heritage Foundation, Aug 1st, 2008 “Aircraft Carriers Are Crucial”, The Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/07/30/AR2008073003078.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> For any U.S. president, the aircraft carrier embodies the ultimate crisis management tool. Continuously deployed throughout the globe, carrier-strike groups give our military unparalleled freedom of action to respond to a range of combat and non-combat missions. The recent George Washington incident only further emphasizes the significance of maintaining a robust carrier fleet, one large enough to meet all contingencies and "surge" in crises, no matter what may happen. Carriers can move large contingents of forces and their support to distant theaters, respond rapidly to changing tactical situations, support several missions simultaneously, and, perhaps most importantly, guarantee access to any region in the world. In a time when America's political relationships with other countries can shift almost overnight, aircraft carriers can reduce America's reliance on others -- often including suspect regimes -- for basing rights. A carrier's air wing can typically support 125 sorties a day at a distance up to 750 nautical miles. They also operate as a hub in the strike group's command, control, communications and intelligence network, playing an increasingly larger role in controlling the battlespace at sea. Whether in a direct or support role, carriers have taken part in almost every major military operation the U.S. has undertaken since the Second World War. They also serve as first-rate diplomatic tools to either heighten or ease political pressure. When tensions with North Korea or Iran increase, a carrier, or sometimes two, is sent to patrol off their coast. And when an election takes place in a nascent democracy or country central to U.S. interests, a strike group typically is sailing offshore. In March, when Taiwan held important presidential elections that will chart the future of that country's relationship with China, both the Kitty Hawk and Nimitz trolled nearby to ensure a smooth transition of events and deliver a psychological message of U.S. interest. And at a time when policymakers expect to spend less on defense and where the services' lists of unfunded requirements continues to mount, we'll likely call on the aircraft carrier to perform an expanded array of duties, ranging from humanitarian relief to counterinsurgency support and temporary basing for Special Operations Forces. As the Navy assumes responsibility for humanitarian missions in places such as Africa and South America, it will rely on aircraft carriers to provide immediate relief following natural disasters. During Operation Unified Assistance, following the December 2004 tsunami and during relief efforts following Hurricane Katrina, for instance, they placed a central role. For these enduring reasons, both the Congress and the Navy must work to ensure that a sufficient number of aircraft carriers remain in operation. During the Reagan years, the Navy maintained 15 carriers. In FY 2006, Congress required the Navy maintain at least 12 carriers. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Carriers provide unmatched firepower and survivability – cutbacks will collapse U.S. military dominance around the globe</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Allen, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, 2k1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Today, the 15 CVBG/14 CVW/600-- ship Navy is little more than a forlorn memory. The nation's 12 carriers and 10 air wings are still critical "nodes" in the much smaller 300-ship fleet, though-but they are under increasing operational and fiscal strain. Indeed, at a time when U.S. interests and friends both seem to be in jeopardy almost everywhere, the nation's naval forces have been busier than ever. During the Cold War, the Navy responded at the president's direction to a different international crisis every nine weeks or so, on average. By the late 1990s, the response rate had increased to one every three weeks. Because of the shipbuilding "holiday" of the last 10 years, it has become apparent, according to recent projections, that a 10-carrier/250-ship fleet -- or smaller-is increasingly likely unless dramatic changes in approach and funding are made. There are growing concerns that the current reviews may lead to ill-founded decisions about America's carriers from which there may be no easy-or inexpensive-way to recover. Given the requirements of the regional warfighting commanders, no fewer than 15 large-deck carriers and 14 carrier air wings are needed to provide 100-percent CVBG "coverage" of three major areas of responsibility (AORs): the Mediterranean, the Persian Gulf, and the Northwest/Western Pacific. Since 1993, however, the U.S. global naval force presence policy has been based on the inevitability of significant "gaps" in carrier coverage in these regions. As a result of the combination of downsizing and the increased operating tempo, the Navy's carrier force is being stretched increasingly thin to meet even these constrained global commitments. It is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain a balance between ensuring today's combat readiness and at the same time modernizing and recapitalizing the force needed for the decades ahead. The emphasis on combat readiness for US rotational forces is critical; when battle groups deploy today, the odds are great that at some time during their forward-deployed operations they will engage in actual combat. All of the last 11 CVBGs to deploy have experienced this reality. This unavoidably high operational tempo, coupled with the reality of actual combat. has caused the diversion of more and more resources toward sustaining current readiness-but at the expense of recapitalization. Operational commitments have been met, but only by the cannibalization of scarce parts and by cross-decking critically needed people, ordnance, and equipment. In both the 2001 QDR and the review being conducted by the Office of the Secretary of Defense, therefore, the Navy must underscore the reality that force levels need to take into account the high usage rates expected in any future security environment. The "do more with less" posture of the 1990s can no longer be sustained. Size and Mobility: The Keys to Survival: During the Navy League's Sea-Air-- Space Exposition in April, Chief of Naval Operations Adm. Vern Clark said the following about the alleged vulnerability of carriers to asymmetric threats: "Maybe in the future we will have to worry about it more than we have to worry about it today. But for now and the near term, there is no more powerful, no more capable platform anywhere in the world than an American large-deck aircraft carrier." Just as quantity has a quality all its own, so does size. Numerous studies and analyses carried out since the mid-- 1950s have shown that, compared to smaller ships, large-deck carriers are much more survivable against a wide variety of threats. They will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. Any susceptibility to attack is mitigated by the carrier's mobility, organic self-defense systems, embarked air wing, and area defenses (afforded by surface warships and submarines). A would-be attacker must penetrate sophisticated theater-wide and area-- layered defenses-and land numerous hits-to put a carrier out of action. Carriers can withstand considerable damage, thanks to their large size, the distribution of redundant systems throughout the ship, their high-strength steel and sophisticated armor, their ballistic plating, and their underwater protective systems.The carrier's ability to withstand severe punishment was-unfortunately and unintentionally-vividly demonstrated in 1969 when nine 500-pound bombs (the equivalent of six Soviet cruise missiles at the time) exploded on the flight deck of the USS Enterprise during a fire resulting from the detonation of a rocket's warhead. Despite the damage done, the Enterprise could have resumed flight operations within hours. Today's new carriers are even tougher and more survivable. Before it can be hit, moreover, the carrier must first be detected. Targeting a carrier is much more difficult than finding its general operating area -- which, during a 24-hour period, could encompass several thousand miles of ocean. The intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance challenges facing a would-be attacker, therefore, are both complex and resource-intensive. Few potential adversaries possess such capabilities today, and their sensors and weapons are themselves vulnerable to operational deception and attack. "These platforms [aircraft carriers] are tough with all kinds of defensive but also powerful offensive systems," the CNO told the Navy League. "They are mobile, and they are fast ... which translates into a 700-square-mile area of uncertainty in 30 minutes. In an hour-and-a-half it grows to 6,300 miles and, friends, that presents one heck of a targeting problem." Size also contributes significantly to seakeeping qualities and to the ability to conduct flight operations safely in severe weather around the clock. While today's larger high-performance tactical aircraft have imposed design requirements for larger flight decks-from the 81,500 tons (full load) of the first postWWII carrier, USS Forrestal, to today's 96,000-ton Nimitz-class CVNs-so too has the demand to conduct flight operations 24 hours per day and in sea states and weather conditions that would completely shut down a much smaller ship. Taking into consideration both the size and the capabilities of the new aircraft coming into service, the large-- deck carrier and its air wing will have the ability to operate "24/7" and in virtually all weather conditions. The question that must be asked, therefore, is whether "part-time" sea-based air power staged on small "air-capable" ships is acceptable in future crises and conflicts. If past is prologue, the answer is a resounding "No!" The tangible and intangible contributions of nuclear propulsion to operational effectiveness also must be factored into this complex equation. The endurance of today's nuclear-- powered aircraft carrier is measured in millions of miles. The CVNs are capable of 25 years of operations before having to be refueled. Nuclear-powered carriers have the ability to steam at high speed from one operating area to another, without the need to replenish. They arrive on station ready for immediate action. A Needed Investment In U.S. National Security: Despite the hopes of most Americans to transition to an era of reduced conflict and crises during the post-Cold War era, there has been no reduction in the operational and personnel tempos required to meet U.S. global commitments, and the increased pace of operations has strained the Navy's people and their equipment. In short, the delicate balance between matching strategic requirements with needed resources has been thrown off-center. But "doing much more with much less" has become the mantra and the reality of the U.S. armed forces in recent years. If the United States expects to preserve its position of world leadership, to assure access to world regions of importance, and to have the credible military force needed to deter conflict-and/or to respond to crises and win wars-it must invest more in all elements of U.S. national security, particularly in its versatile, capable, and forward-deployed naval expeditionary forces. The Bush administration is now poised to make a dramatic course-change to make things right. The dramatist and writer Ben Jonson once remarked, "Good fortune smiles on the audacious." It is past time for the Navy to be audacious in articulating its "real" requirements, as the chief of naval operations has emphasized. Analysis and real-world experience clearly show that any reductions below the current force structure of 12 aircraft carriers and 10 air wings would pose great risk to U.S. national security and to the well-being of this nation's allies around the world. Moreover, the increasingly chaotic and troubled international-security environment of recent years, combined with the higher-threat scenarios projected for the future, suggests that 15 large-deck carriers and 14 air wings would really be "the right stuff" for the United States of America. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China’s carriers are a bid for regional hegemony – America’s reaction is critical – it must increase carrier procurement to deter naval battles in the Pacific and pacify Chinese aggression</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cropsey, senior fellow Hudson Inst., 2k9</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Seth Cropsey, senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, deputy undersecretary of the Navy in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations, Jan 26th 2009, “We Should Build a Bigger Navy”, The Weekly Standard, [[http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/025ibosb.asp]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Aircraft carriers are not only important as a symbol of a great or growing military power. They are useful and tremendously adaptable instruments of force. We are still only witnessing the beginning of China's naval build-up, but the carriers will have a profound impact on her ability to project military force as disputes with its neighbors, including Japan, over potentially energy-rich sea beds and islands in the South and East China Seas fester. The carriers will also give China greater control over the passage of oil from the Middle East and increase Beijing's military influence in Southeast Asia and the Indian Ocean. They will support possible future Chinese claims to Asian hegemony. They will force Japan to consider construction of similar instruments of naval force. The successful operation of the midsize carriers China envisions would lay the operational, logistic, command and control, and tactical foundation for building vessels with the--much greater--striking power and range of the U.S. Navy's Nimitz-class carriers. That's not all, though. The initial focus of China's carriers is likely to be to the south and west, but the vast Pacific lies immediately beyond the chain of islands and land formations that extend south from Japan through the Philippines. The wide but penetrable moat between these islands and the Chinese mainland offers bastions for her growing force of nuclear-propelled, intercontinental ballistic missile-carrying submarines, as the islands themselves shield China from the open ocean. But the eventual passage of her carriers eastward, beyond the moat, re-establishes the potential for naval competition in the Pacific that disappeared with the defeat of the Imperial Japanese navy in 1945. This challenge did not appear suddenly like a dragon from the mists of China's famous stone forests. The Chinese have been working towards a naval aviation capability for many years. A summer 2008 Congressional Research Service report noted an Indian naval analyst's observation that the People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) has been planning for large naval combatants like carriers and amphibious vessels for a quarter of a century. A safe and effective naval aviation capability requires mastery of a host of design, operational, logistic, training, and command skills. China has been addressing these deliberately and methodically. Courses for future carrier and amphibious ship commanding officers began at the Guangzhou Naval Academy in 1985. Two years later, the same academy, in sensible imitation of the U.S. Navy's tradition of selecting qualified pilots to command aircraft carriers, initiated a program for young PLAN pilots to prepare them to command ships. These officers are reaching the correct seniority, level of experience, and age to become the PLAN's first carrier commanders. Negotiations with European companies for construction of large amphibious ships took place in the late 1990s. A little over two years ago, the Russian press reported that China was negotiating to purchase as many as 48 SU-33 fighter aircraft, which are built to be launched and recovered by aircraft carriers and can be refueled in flight. In September 2008, an article in Jane's Defence Weekly reported that 50 students had begun a course of study at the Dalian Naval Academy intended to prepare them to become the PLAN's first fixed-wing aircraft carrier pilots. The Chinese carriers will build on one of the PLAN's most significant accomplishments: the creation of a fleet of attack and ballistic missile submarines. This began, as the carrier program did with the Varyag, with the purchase of Russian subs in the 1990s, specifically the Kilo-class conventional-powered attack submarine of which China now possesses 12 (the Chinese have also acquired powerful surface combatants from Russia). The PLAN's submarine force continues to experience significant growth, in both size and capability, as several new classes of nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines armed with rockets of increasing range are being added to its force. If we assume the year 2020 as a reasonable target for China's gaining genuine competency at naval aviation--particularly the joint operation of carriers with the rest of a fleet--it will have taken just 35 years for China to transform its navy from a large collection of aging World War II landing ships, patrol boats, shore-based aircraft, and submarines with very limited range into a modern naval force with an offensive ballistic missile capability.It will be able to project power and will offer the U.S. Navy a serious challenge in the Pacific. The span is about the same amount of time that it took Japan to turn its coastal defense navy into the battle fleet that destroyed a Russian rival at the Battle of Tsushima Strait in May 1905. There are numerous similarities between China's and Japan's rise as naval powers. Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution and Great Leap Forward isolated and impoverished China--leaving it with a technologically backward military--as two centuries of Tokugawa rule had isolated and impoverished Japan. Both countries looked abroad for help. China depended initially on Russian naval technology. Japan looked to Holland, France, and especially England to acquire large modern ships as a precursor to developing their own naval industrial base. Both countries depend heavily on the seaborne delivery of critical natural resources. China and Japan--at different times, of course, and at significantly different degrees of national assertiveness--looked to naval forces as the symbol and instrument of broader regional and international ambitions. Japan built a world-class navy in three and a half decades with large strategic consequences for America and the world. China is well on its way toward a similar accomplishment, with the potential for similar consequences. The U.S. Navy's response to the PLAN's deliberate and steady progress has been diffident. Dismissive of increasing Chinese naval capabilities at first, U.S. naval commentators have lately adopted a more harmonious position as the gulf between the PLAN's reach and grasp has narrowed. Admiral Dennis Blair, former commander of the U.S. Pacific Command and now in line to become the new administration's director of national intelligence, wrote in 2007 that "China is on a positive trajectory" and argued that "the U.S. should offer to involve China in bilateral and multilateral military operations for the common good." Thomas Barnett, a researcher and a professor at the Naval War College until 2004, urged in a 2005 article ("The Chinese Are Our Friends") in Esquire that the president stop the "rising tide of Pentagon propaganda on the Chinese 'threat' and tell Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld .  .  . that our trigger pullers on the ground today deserve everything they need to conduct counterinsurgency operations." Whether or not it shares these views of Chinese benignity, the Navy has drifted in recent years. At about 280 combatants, fleet size today is less than half its level during the Reagan administration. The Navy says it needs an additional 33 ships to carry out its various global missions, but the needed increase eludes its leadership. The costs of shipbuilding have increased without effective restraint, and one new class of large surface combatants--the Zumwalt class of destroyers--was cancelled. Another--the Littoral Combat ship--saw overruns double the cost of the first ship and the number to be purchased fall by nearly a fifth. (The price remains stratospheric for a vessel whose most immediate mission would be to chase speedboat-borne pirates.) The programs to replace aircraft carriers as they reach the end of their useful service lives are in irons as a result of a clash between previous DoD decisions that restrict the size of the next carrier and the expansive requirements of the critical systems planned for the next generation of carriers. Even without the likelihood that China's next large step in developing its navy is the addition of aircraft carriers, the United States needed to increase its combatant fleet. Continued missteps that result in a diminishing U.S. Navy at the same time that China's naval force grows are an invitation to change the balance of power in Asia, the Pacific, and the world. The Obama administration should use part of its proposed economic stimulus package to begin a naval restoration program that will increase the combatant fleet by at least 15 percent before 2016, and the program should not be relegated to future budget years, which are as changeable as the weather. A Naval Recovery Act should include an immediate advance in the schedule for constructing a new carrier, thus eliminating the undesirable possibility that the Navy will be short one for several years. Similar efforts should aim at drawing Japan closer, developing our connections with the Indian navy, reestablishing a naval base in the Philippines, and building a relationship with Vietnam that could eventually support a U.S. naval presence. Offsetting China's efforts to deny the United States access to our Western Pacific friends and allies requires thoughtful statecraft as well as effective naval forces. Allowing the current U.S. naval slippage to continue will result in a combat fleet of a size we haven't seen since 1911. Combined with the parallel growth in the Chinese navy and the certainty that Beijing's leadership will use it to fill the vacuums created by a diminishing U.S. naval presence, this would be more damaging and strategically far-reaching than any of the Bush administration's mistakes. The PLAN's likely entry into carrier aviation is interesting for what it says about China's long-term strategy and objectives. How we respond is far more important.</span>


==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Beacon Neg - Southeast Asian Counteradvocacy</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">﻿</span>**

COUNTER ADVOCACY:

Abhik and I will defer to the personal experiences of Damyir and Miquel as validation that policing of bodies takes place on the domestic homefront but will demand an end to the policing of ‘yellow’ bodies abolishing the cops existing here in this community that extend the arms of the “BLUE BEAST” to international sovereign territories through racist immigration policies so that it may serve as a praxis and starting point to move beyond the Black White dichotomy that structures a “Black Cultural of poverty” through the myth of the model minority. 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">A. </span> THE POLICING OF BODIES TARGETS SOUTH EAST ASIAN IMMIGRANTS 

THE SPEECH ACT OF THE 1NC HAS VALUE WITHIN THIS DEBATE 
TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000 
Eric-; COLLATERAL DAMAGE: Southeast Asian Poverty in the United States; SOCIAL TEXT 62; Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring; p.67-68. 
In their 1988 essay, “Fertility and Adaptation: Indochinese Refugees in the United States,” Rumbaut and Weeks advance a number of explanations for the high fertility rate among Southeast Asian refugee women on welfare. Primary among these explanations is the desire for Southeast Asian families to “make up” for the children they lost during the course of civil war and refugee flight, particularly from Pol Pot’s regime in Cambodia. With little ethnographic evidence to support this claim, however, Rumbaut and Weeks turn to the more accessible culturalisms provided by the economic sociology of immigration. They stress the ways in which childbearing is a means of strengthening and extending networks of labor and capital for the refugee family. But this explanation does not match statistical evidence that reveals that many Southeast Asians do not participate in small enterprises of the ethnic economy that require an extended network of labor. Finally, Rumbaut and Weeks claim that high levels of Southeast Asian fertility are merely the result of rural culturalisms that have yet to go away. Here again they present us with another exceptional circumstance, one that the refugee will no doubt overcome through economic adaptation to the capitalist democracy and through closer ties to Anglocultural family norms. In short, a lower fertility rate is only a matter of time. 
Rumbaut and Week’s theory of high fertility as “cultural retention,” as well as their assurance of eventual “behavioral changes” through assimilation, serves to disengage the Southeast Asian immigrant from the pathologies that characterize the black underclass. Indeed, they ignore the fact that many of the Southeast Asian women on welfare are not members of the first generation who came of age in rural Asia. Rather, they are younger women who, much like their black and Latina counterparts, have been “acculturated” into capitalist democracy by way of violent state policies and postindustrial joblessness. By removing the young Southeast Asian welfare recipient from this particular setting, the sociological images of immigrant life work to consolidate the racial project of welfare reform, which demands that the color of sexual deviance remain unequivocally black. 
Finally, by reducing Asian immigrant poverty to a narrative of developmental phases in refugee adjustment, Rumbaut’s work ignores the role that the state and private capital play in the expansion of low-wage labor and, consequently, the creation of urban poverty. As I shall later explore, Southeast Asians living in the Bronx are today, nearly twenty years after their arrival to the United States, entering into low-wage factory work; this shift is a direct consequence of the state’s failure to protect the minimum wage, labor standards, and health and safety provisions in the broader labor market. It has little, if anything, to do with phases of immigration. 

OUR COUNTER-ADVOCACY SOLVES THEIR OFFENSE BETTER 

A FEW REASONS 

FIRST: THE MYTH OF THE MODEL MINORITY 
THRUPKAEW Prospect Senior Correspondent 2k2 
Noy-; The Myth of the Model Minority; THE AMERICAN PROSPECT; April 7; 
[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_myth_of_the_model_minority]]
The model-minority myth has persisted in large part because political conservatives are so attached to it. "Asian Americans have become the darlings of the right," said Frank Wu, a law professor at Howard University and the author of Yellow: Race beyond Black and White. "The model-minority myth and its depiction of Asian-American success tells a reassuring story about our society working." 
The flip side is also appealing to the right. Because Asian Americans' success stems from their strong families and their dedication to education and hard work, conservatives say, then the poverty of Latinos and African Americans must be explained by their own "values": They are poor because of their nonmarrying, school-skipping, and generally lazy and irresponsible behavior, which government handouts only encourage. 
The model-minority myth's "racist love," as author Frank Chin terms it, took hold at a sensitive point in U.S. history: after the 1965 Watts riots and the immigration reforms of that year, which selectively allowed large numbers of educated immigrants into the United States. Highly skilled South and East Asian nurses, doctors, and engineers from countries like India and China began pouring into the United States just as racial tensions were at a fever pitch. 
Shortly thereafter, articles like "Success Story of One Minority in the U.S.," published by U.S. News & World Report in 1966, trumpeted: "At a time when it is being proposed that hundreds of billions be spent to uplift Negroes and other minorities, the nation's 300,000 Chinese Americans are moving ahead on their own, with no help from anyone else." Newsweek in 1971 had Asian Americans "outwhiting the whites." And Fortune in 1986 dubbed them a "superminority." As Wu caricatures the model-minority myth in his book: 
Asian Americans vindicate the American Dream... . They are living proof of the power of the free market and the absence of racial discrimination. Their good fortune flows from individual self-reliance and community self-sufficiency, not civil-rights activism or government welfare benefits. 
A closer look at the data paints another picture, however. If Asian-American households earn more than whites, statistics suggest, it's not because their individual earnings are higher but because Asian Americans live in larger households, with more working adults. In fact, a recent University of Hawaii study found that "most Asian Americans are overeducated compared to whites for the incomes they earn" -- evidence that suggests not "family values" but market discrimination. What most dramatically skews the data, though, is the fact that about half the population of Asian (or, more precisely, Asian-Pacific Islander) Americans is made up of the highly educated immigrants who began arriving with their families in the 1960s. The plight of refugees from Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam, who make up less than 14 percent of Asian Americans, gets lost in the averaging. Yet these refugees, who started arriving in the United States after 1975, differ markedly from the professional-class Chinese and Indian immigrants who started coming 10 years earlier. The Southeast Asians were fleeing wartime persecution and had few resources. And those disadvantages have had devastating effects on their lives in the United States. The most recent census data available show that 47 percent of Cambodians, 66 percent of Hmong (an ethnic group that lived in the mountains of Laos), 67 percent of Laotians, and 34 percent of Vietnamese were impoverished in 1990 -- compared with 10 percent of all Americans and 14 percent of all Asian Americans. Significantly, poverty rates among Southeast Asian Americans were much higher than those of even the "nonmodel" minorities: 21 percent of African Americans and 23 percent of Latinos were poor. 
Yet despite the clear inaccuracies created by lumping populations together, the federal government still groups Southeast Asian refugees under the overbroad category of "Asian" for research and funding purposes. "We've labored under the shadow of this model myth for so long," said KaYing Yang, SEARAC's executive director. "There's so little research on us, or we're lumped in with all other Asians, so people don't know the specific needs and contributions of our communities." 

SECOND: BLACK/WHITE BINARY 

OUR DISCOURSE IS KEY TO BREAKING THE BLACK/WHITE BINARY OF RACIALIZED DISCUSSIONS 

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Hutchinson</span></span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Prof of Law, Washington College of Law, American U,<span class="cite"><span style="line-height: 115%;">’04</span> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> Darren Lenard, Aug 2004 (“Critical Race Theory: History, Evolution, and New Frontiers,” American University Law Review, LN) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Ultimately, however, <span class="underline0">the exclusive deployment of a binary black/white paradigm artificially narrows racial discourse and harms racial justice efforts. In order to construct adequate antiracist theories and</span> to <span class="underline0">develop</span> effective <span class="underline0">remedies for racial injustice, Critical Race Theorists must excavate the multidimensional harms that racial injustice causes, including harms that are racial but not endured by blacks</span>. Furthermore, <span class="underline0">progressive racial politics can only survive with broad political support. The most likely support for progressive racial change comes from persons of color. Yet, the deep divisions that result from binary racial politics hinders the formation of</span> helpful <span class="underline0">antiracist alliances</span>. Finally, <span class="underline0">a multiracial discourse may help blacks demonstrate the pervasiveness of racial inequality. Whites tend to view racism as a relic of prior generations</span>, and they often respond to blacks' claims of ongoing racial injustice with suspicion. n108 Moreover, [*1203] <span class="underline0">in a white-supremacist culture, binary racial discourse obscures the experiences of discrimination experienced by Latinos and Asian Americans</span>. n109 <span class="underline0">As a result, whites argue that blacks should emulate "model minorities," usually Asian Americans, who either do not suffer from racism or do not believe that racism injures them enough to oppose it on a political level</span>.. n110 <span class="underline0">Binary racial discourse therefore allows whites to discredit blacks' claims of racism by offering Asian Americans as proof that the United States has eradicated racial injustice, or that blacks can easily overcome what "little" racism still exists. Multiracial discourse, however, offers a powerful rebuttal to this negative and deceitful discourse. By portraying the complexity of racial inequality, Critical Race Theorists can counter a white-supremacist narrative that disparages blacks' assertions of racial injustice by deploying model minority constructs</span>. n111 </span>
THE BLACK/WHITE DICHOTOMY OF POVERTY TURNS SOUTHEAST ASIANS INTO DISCURSIVE “COLLATERAL DAMAGE” 
TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000 
Eric-; COLLATERAL DAMAGE: Southeast Asian Poverty in the United States; SOCIAL TEXT 62; Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring; p.58-59. 
Following my discussion of the formation of an immigrant culture of poverty, I discuss the contradictions involved in applying such a culture to particular Asian communities. Here, Southeast Asian refugees figure centrally in my argument. Perhaps more than any other racial or ethnic group in the United States, Southeast Asians in the postindustrial setting defy definitions set out by the immigrant culture of poverty thesis. Southeast Asians are at once located within the welfare state and the sweatshop firm, they are both the unemployed “slum dweller” and the overworked, and their youth embody neoliberalism’s nihilistic fantasy of the “menace to society” as well as its promise for a brighter, multicultural future. 
Yet, in much of the academic and popular writings on Southeast Asians, these contradictions are viewed as mere aberrations. Rather than accept the full heterogeneity of Southeast Asian life, these writings, influenced by the economic sociology of immigration, have cast it aside as a set of rare, if not intriguing, exceptions-attributed, no doubt, to the “exceptional circumstances” of refugee flight and resettlement. In this essay, I explore how these theories of refugee exceptionalism serve to consolidate a homogenous black culture of poverty. Here Southeast Asian poverty can be metaphorically thought of as the “collateral damage” in the war against the underclass. “Collateral damage” is a military euphemism that was made popular during the Vietnam War, as it both described and justified the “unintentional” killing of Vietnamese civilians who resided on the periphery of targeted bombing sites. In today’s full-scale war against the black urban poor, Southeast Asian refugees have been called on by culture of poverty theorists to once again serve as unintended targets. But much like the real war, the metaphorical war-when fully exposed-reveals that there is no such thing as the unintended. 

THIRD: NEO-RACIST DISCOURSE IN THE BODY OF THE IMMIGRANT 

OUR COUNTER ADVOCACY IS A BETTER EXAMINATION OF WHITE SUPREMACY 

RACISM HAS MOVED BEYOND BIOLOGICAL HEREDITY TO FORM A NEO RACISM ROOTED WITHIN CULTURAL BOUNDARIES, A DIFFERENTIALIST RACISM AND IMMIGRATION IS THE KEY 
BALIBAR teaches philosophy @ the University of Paris 2k5 
Etienne-; RACE, NATION, CLASS: Ambiguous identities; published 1988 reprinted 1992,1993,1995,1996,1998,2000,2002,2005; p. 20-21. 
We can now turn our attention to ‘neo-racism’. What seems to pose a problem here is not the fact of racism, as I have already pointed out – practice being a fairly sure criterion (if we do not allow ourselves to be deceived by the denials of racism which we meet among large sections of the political class in particular, which only thereby betrays the complacency and blindness of that group) – but determining to what extent the relative novelty of the language is expressing a new and lasting articulation of social practices and collective representations, academic doctrines and political movements. In short, to use Gramscian language, we have to determine whether something like a hegemony is developing here. 
The functioning of the category of immigration as a substitute for the notion of race and a solvent of ‘class consciousness’ provides us with a first clue. Quite clearly, we are not simply dealing with a camouflaging operation, made necessary by the disrepute into which the term ‘race’ and its derivatives has fallen, nor solely with a consequence of the transformations of French society. Collectivities of immigrant workers have for many years suffered discrimination and xenophobic violence in which racist stereotyping has played an essential role in the interwar period, another crisis era, saw the unleashing of campaigns in France against ‘foreigners’, Jewish or otherwise, campaigns which extended beyond the activities of the fascist movements and which found their logical culmination in the Vichy regime’s contribution to the Hitlerian enterprise. Why did we not at that period see the ‘sociological’ signifier definitively replace the ‘biological’ one as the key representation of hatred and fear of the other? Apart from the force of strictly French traditions of anthropological myth, this was probably due, on the one hand, to the institutional and ideological break which then existed between the perception of immigration (essentially European) and colonial experience (on the one side, France ‘was being invaded’, on the other it ‘was dominant’) and, on the other hand, because of the absence of a new model of articulation between states, peoples and cultures on a world scale. The two reasons are indeed linked. The new racism is a racism of the era of decolonization’, of the reversal of population movements between the old colonies and the old metropolises, and the division of humanity within a single political space. Ideologically, current racism, which in France centres upon the immigration complex, fits into a framework of ‘racism without races’, which is already widely developed in other countries, particularly the Anglo-Saxon ones. It is a racism whose dominant theme is not biological heredity but the insurmountability of cultural differences, a racism which, at first sight, does not postulate the superiority of certain groups or peoples in relation to others but ‘only’ the harmfulness of abolishing frontiers, the incompatibility of life-styles and traditions; in short, it is what P.A. Taguieff has rightly called a differentialist racism. 




<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">“2NC OVERVIEW” </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
THE COUNTERADVOCACY SOLVES 100% OF THE 1AC DISCOURSE AND PERFORMATIVELY PROVES A BETTER METHODOLOGY FOR THE DISRUPTION OF WHITENESS WITHIN THE PEDAGOGICAL DISCURSIVE SPACE OF DEBATE 
FIRST: 
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">While the affirmative’s ideological stance has validity in the policing of bodies, the ASIAN body as a point of resistance to White Supremacy has more connection to the critical question of the resolution. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">The policing of bodies has DISRUPTED and policed whole nations through U.S. militarism and U.S. military presence in TOPIC COUNTRIES such as Japan and South Korea, making a topical version of the Affirmative available. The framework becomes a NET BENEFIT to our advocacy. </span>
THE NEW FORM OF RACISM HAS ENTANGLED U.S. FOREIGN POLICY THROUGH THE MILITARY PRESENCE IN PLACES LIKE ASIA, DISRUPTING CULTURAL SPACES AND BODIES THROUGH WHITENESS 

U.S. MILITARY OCCUPATION OF BODIES AND LAND HAS CONSEQUENCES 

MAISEL Marketing Asst for Stanford University Press 2k8 
Kira-; PRESS RELEASE on a book by Nadia Kim Entitled //IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul to LA;// June 2008; [[http://www.sup.org/html/book_pages/0804758875/Press%20Release.pdf]]
The presence of the U.S. military in foreign countries creates not just an outflow of resources (and often bullets) but also of culture. American ideas about racial hierarchies can cross oceans on the backs of American soldiers, and the prejudices they introduce into other societies change that society’s own racial lines forever. 
//Imperial Citizens// does what other books rarely do: ventures to an Asian country and studies how racial inequalities have been forged by a U.S. military presence over several generations since World War II. Nadia Kim argues that American imperialism has been a significant source of ideas and attitudes about Asian/Asian Americans as well as Whites and Blacks in South Korea. Using a global framework, extensive interviews and ethnographic data, she examines how notions of White superiority and Black inferiority have been transmitted via the U.S. military and have changed how South Koreans view themselves. Paying close attention to history, Kim argues that these racial concepts were reinforced by the U.S. military during its occupation of South Korea by its introduction of everything from Hollywood movies depicting White Americans as rich, heroic, happy, and beautiful to double eyelid and nose cartilage surgeries designed to fix Korean "deformities.” These racist American influences, combined with violent military abuses (i.e. rape of Korean women by U.S. soldiers), solidified the inferior status of Koreans in their own minds. 
As a result, Koreans imagined themselves as non-White and therefore inferior but also non-Black and therefore as both “above” and “below” Black Americans. Koreans, in part, were culturally primed to see themselves as above Blacks because of their Confucianist ideas about natural hierarchies and assumed truths about Korean’s well-endowed bloodline. But they also saw themselves as below Blacks because Blacks were seen as agents of the U.S. 
occupation and therefore politically more powerful. To this day, Korean Americans experience a great deal of tension with Black Americans because of these conflicting racial experiences that began in South Korea. 
Kim goes on to describe how these racial stereotypes traveled with Korean immigrants back to American soil. When Koreans began immigrating to the U.S. in significant numbers, their learned stereotypes influenced how they positioned themselves within U.S. society. While they saw themselves as inferior to White Americans, they understood that they were socioeconomically more powerful than Blacks but politically //less// powerful than them owing to Blacks’ more “American” status. That is, Asian Americans have long been the so-called forever foreigners. 
Kim pays attention to both the invisible dimensions of foreignness as well as the immigrants’ everyday struggles with being //visibly// foreign. But she shows how Korean Americans resist these inequalities and prejudices: “Indeed, [Korean American’s] long-standing struggle with external powers like ‘America’ and attendant inferiority issues have in many ways readied them to defend their honor, a fight that some of them expect to wage. For those who do not expect it, however, the contradiction of American democracy and American racism inflames resistance.” 
With interviews, ethnographic observations, and newspaper analyses, Kim illuminates how U.S. imperialism has resulted in injustices and social problems for both Korean and American society. //Imperial Citizens// is further evidence that the U.S. occupation of other countries (not just lands, but human bodies and minds) have serious consequences for everyone involved. 

<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Second the IMPACT of policing of NATIONS of colored bodies has greater implications. Internal conditions of RAW RACIAL DOMINATION and white supremacy CONDITIONED the state’s conduct into the MASS KILLINGS. The bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were DIRECTLY CONDITIONED by racist dehumanization of Asian peoples ON THE DOMESTIC FRONT. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Gott ’88</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">, Gill, Ph.D., UC-Berkeley; Prof, Law and Int’l Studies, DePaul U, Dec 1988 (“A Tale of New Precedents: Japanese American Interment as Foreign Affairs Law,” Boston College Law Review, p. 202) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Ironically, of course, <span class="underline0">the supposed anarchy of the "external" was set loose internally, having grown from conditions uniquely domestic and American</span>. Again, rhetorically, lawless state action was characterized as necessary in light of the external threat, the chaos of the international realm. But <span class="underline0">an inversion of this relationship may better describe the state of events: internal conditions of raw racial domination and white supremacy conditioned</span> the <span class="underline0">state</span>'s <span class="underline0">conduct</span> in its war effort. Indeed, <span class="underline0">the mass killings by nuclear bombs</span> dropped on civilian centers <span class="underline0">in Japan were directly conditioned by the racist dehumanization of Asian peoples generally, a product of domestic race "relations" in the United States</span>. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">“A2: COUNTER-ADVOCACY DOES NOT SOLVE WHITE SUPREMACY” </span></span>

THE COUNTER-ADVOCACY IS THE ONLY WAY TO BREAK DOWN THE STRUCTURES OF WHITE SUPREMACY AS THEY EXIST TODAY. 

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Le ’08</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> C.N., 4/25/08 (“Racial Tensions and Living in a Colorblind Society,” Asian-Nation, http://www.asian-nation.org/headlines/2008/04/racial-tensions-and-living-in-a-colorblind-society/) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">It would be great if I could just focus on discussing the positive aspects of how American society and American institutions such as higher education have made progress in alleviating racial inequality. Alas, these incidents only highlight what many scholars have been saying all along — <span class="underline0">as we move</span> forward <span class="underline0">into the 21st century, racism and racial prejudice are still alive and well in American society. The only difference between its nature today versus that of</span> say, <span class="underline0">100 years ago, is that</span> in many ways, <span class="underline0">racism is now expressed in “colorblind” terms</span>. That is, <span class="underline0">racists now</span> apparently <span class="underline0">think that racial equality has been achieved (they</span>’ll <span class="underline0">point to Asian American socioeconomic achievements as one example</span>), so it’s perfectly fine to make fun of Asian Americans and other groups because we’re all equal now — we’re all on a level playing field nowadays, so everybody is fair game. In other words, <span class="underline0">this is what it means to live in a colorblind society these days — historical legacies of systematic racism are completely ignored or “whitewashed” and we</span> all <span class="underline0">pretend that all racial groups are perfectly equal</span>. Or alternatively, racists act on their resentment that minorities have apparently achieved “equality” and physically attack us. Unfortunately, I predict that <span class="underline0">this climate of “colorblind” prejudice will get worse before it gets better, especially as globalization continues to reshape</span> the <span class="underline0">American society, the</span> American <span class="underline0">economy, and</span> as a result, <span class="underline0">the fundamental assumption of American superiority around the world. As Americans</span>, particularly White Americans, continue to <span class="underline0">economically</span> struggle as we enter a recession <span class="underline0">and</span> as they <span class="underline0">culturally struggle</span> with maintaining their exclusive hold on the “American identity” while demographic shifts take place all around them, <span class="underline0">their fear</span>, frustrations, <span class="underline0">and anger will inevitably boil over and</span> verbal and physical <span class="underline0">attacks on convenient scapegoats such as Asian Americans will continue</span>. I want to be optimistic and hopefully I’m wrong, but as these recent incidents show, <span class="underline0">racial tensions seem to be on the rise, not on the decline</span>. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">A2: BLACKNESS AS THE ZERO POINT OF IDENTITY” </span></span>

COUNTER-ADVOCACY SOLVES 100% OF THEIR OFFENSE 

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Expanding the paradigm to INCLUDE other non-black racial groups AIDS the discussion of racism between blacks and whites allowing the issue to become LESS SENSITIVE. </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Nolan ’03</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">, Laurence Nolan, Professor of Law at Howard University (“‘Yellow: Race in America Beyond Black and White - An Interesting Read for the Great Dissenter in Plessy v. Ferguson,’ by Frank H. Wu,” Book Review, 47 How. L.J. 87, lexis) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Yellow also argues that <span class="underline0">expanding the paradigm to include other non-black racial groups may aid the discussion of racism between blacks and whites</span>. Professor Wu writes that <span class="underline0">introducing Asian Americans into the dialogue about civil rights may make it easier to see how people of all backgrounds operate through sets of racial assumptions and may cause the issues to become less sensitive</span>. n112 <span class="underline0">Both blacks and whites may see how multiple interpretations can be given to a moment</span>, [*107] <span class="underline0">which would have little significance to either blacks or whites, but lasting significance to Asian Americans, and vice versa</span>. n113 </span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">“A2: COUNTER-ADVOCACY DOES NOT SOLVE RACIALIZED POLICING” </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">THE AFFIRMATIVE’S CONCEPTION OF RACISM IS OUTDATED. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">THE COUNTER ADVOCACY SOLVES BETTER </span>
A NEW FORM OF RACISM HAS SPROUTED WITHIN THE NOTION OF NATION-STATES 

KIM Asst Prof of Sociology @ Loyola Marymount Univ. 2k8 
Nadia-; //IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul To LA.//; p. 14-15 
“Nativistic racism” is the mechanism through which Asian Americans have been outcast from the nation (Ancheta 1998:11). This form of racism has relied on several ideologies and stereotypes: economic competitor, organized criminal, “illegal alien,” unwelcome immigrant (Ancheta 1998:11), and military enemy (i.e., “yellow peril”). Historically, White Americans’ resentment of alleged economic competition from the “yellow hordes” led to the exclusion acts against Chinese, Japanese, and Korean Americans in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. In addition, the alarmist “yellow peril” ideology, often couched as “American patriotism,” has been an especially egregious form of nativistic racism. It emerged from the U.S. war against Japan during World War II and crystallized through the conflict with Koreans and Chinese in the Korean War, with the Vietnamese during the Vietnam War, and with most of these countries during the Cold War. Arguably, the U.S. racial state’s most pernicious form of anti-Asian racism on American soil was the World War II mass incarceration of Japanese Americans, a group that was comprised predominantly of U.S. citizens. Because of Franklin Roosevelt’s Executive Order 9066 against Japanese Americans, the general Asian population continues to annually suffer intimidation, violence, and other hate crimes on December 7, the anniversary of Japan’s bombing of Pearl Harbor (Ancheta 1998:12). 


And IGNORING this NEW shift in RACIALIZED nation-building has implications 
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">A NEW GLOBAL RACISM BASED ON CULTURAL EXCLUSION MAKE WAR AND GENOCIDE INEVITABLE </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">BATUR</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> Prof of Sociology @ Vassar </span>2k7 
Pinar Batur, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar, ‘7 [“The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” in //Handbook of the The Soiology of Racial and Ethnic Relations//, eds. Vera and Feagin, p. 441-443])
War and genocide are horrid, and taking them for granted is inhuman. In the 21st century, our problem is not only seeing them as natural and inevitable, but even worse: not seeing, not noticing, but ignoring them. Such act and thought, fueled by global racism, reveal that racial inequality has advanced from the establishment of racial hierarchy and institutionalization of segregation, to the confinement and exclusion, and elimination, of those considered inferior through genocide. In this trajectory, global racism manifests genocide. But this is not inevitable. This article, by examining global racism, explores the new terms of exclusion and the path to permanent war and genocide, to examine the integrality of genocide to the framework of global antiracist confrontation. Racist legitimization of inequality has changed from presupposed biological inferiority to assumed cultural inadequacy. This defines the new terms of impossibility of coexistence, much less equality. The Jim Crow racism of biological inferiority is now being replaced with a new and modern racism (Baker 1981; Ansell 1997) with “culture war” as the key to justify difference, hierarchy, and oppression. The ideology of “culture war” is becoming embedded in institutions, defining the workings of organizations, and is now defended by individuals who argue that they are not racist, but are not blind to the inherent differences between African-Americans/Arabs/Chinese, or whomever, and “us.” “Us” as a concept defines the power of a group to distinguish itself and to assign a superior value to its institutions, revealing certainty that affinity with “them” will be harmful to its existence (Hunter 1991; Buchanan 2002). How can we conceptualize this shift to examine what has changed over the past century and what has remained the same in a racist society? Joe Feagin examines this question with a theory of systemic racism to explore societal complexity of interconnected elements for longevity and adaptability of racism. He sees that systemic racism persists due to a “white racial frame,” defining and maintaining an “organized set of racialized ideas, stereotypes, emotions, and inclinations to discriminate” (Feagin 2006: 25). The white racial frame arranges the routine operation of racist institutions, which enables social and economic reproduction and amendment of racial privilege. It is this frame that defines the political and economic bases of cultural and historical legitimization. While the white racial frame is one of the components of systemic racism, it is attached to other terms of racial oppression to forge systemic coherency. It has altered over time from slavery to segregation to racial oppression and now frames “culture war,” or “clash of civilizations,” to legitimate the racist oppression of domination, exclusion, war, and genocide. The concept of “culture war” emerged to define opposing ideas in America regarding privacy, censorship, citizenship rights, and secularism, but it has been globalized through conflicts over immigration, nuclear power, and the “war on terrorism.” Its discourse and action articulate to flood the racial space of systemic racism. Racism is a process of defining and building communities and societies based on racialized hierarchy of power. The expansion of capitalism cast new formulas of divisions and oppositions, fostering inequality even while integrating all previous forms of oppressive hierarchical arrangements as long as they bolstered the need to maintain the structure and form of capitalist arrangements (Batur-VanderLippe 1996). In this context, the white racial frame, defining the terms of racist systems of oppression, enabled the globalization of racial space through the articulation of capitalism (Du Bois 1942; Winant 1994). The key to understanding this expansion is comprehension of the synergistic relationship between racist systems of oppression and the capitalist system of exploitation. Taken separately, these two systems would be unable to create such oppression independently. However, the synergy between them is devastating. In the age of industrial capitalism, this synergy manifested itself imperialism and colonialism. In the age of advanced capitalism, it is war and genocide. The capitalist system, by enabling and maintaining the connection between everyday life and the global, buttresses the processes of racial oppression, and synergy between racial oppression and capitalist exploitation begets violence. Etienne Balibar points out that the connection between everyday life and the global is established through thought, making global racism a way of thinking, enabling connections of “words with objects and words with images in order to create concepts” (Balibar 1994: 200). Yet, global racism is not only an articulation of thought, but also a way of knowing and acting, framed by both everyday and global experiences. Synergy between capitalism and racism as systems of oppression enables this perpetuation and destruction on the global level. As capitalism expanded and adapted to the particularities of spatial and temporal variables, global racism became part of its legitimization and accommodation, first in terms of colonialist arrangements. In colonized and colonizing lands, global racism has been perpetuated through racial ideologies and discriminatory practices under capitalism by the creation and recreation of connections among memory, knowledge, institutions, and construction of the future in thought and action. What makes racism global are the bridges connecting the particularities of everyday racist experiences to the universality of racist concepts and actions, maintained globally by myriad forms of prejudice, discrimination, and violence (Balibar and Wallerstein 1991; Batur 1999, 2006). Under colonialism, colonizing and colonized societies were antagonistic opposites. Since colonizing society portrayed the colonized “other,” as the adversary and challenger of the “the ideal self,” not only identification but also segregation and containment were essential to racist policies. The terms of exclusion were set by the institutions that fostered and maintained segregation, but the intensity of exclusion, and redundancy, became more apparent in the age of advanced capitalism, as an extension of post-colonial discipline. The exclusionary measures when tested led to war, and genocide. Although, more often than not, genocide was perpetuated and fostered by the post-colonial institutions, rather than colonizing forces, the colonial identification of the “inferior other” led to segregation, then exclusion, then war and genocide. Violence glued them together into seamless continuity. Violence is integral to understanding global racism. Fanon (1963), in exploring colonial oppression, discusses how divisions created or reinforced by colonialism guarantee the perpetuation, and escalation, of violence for both the colonizer and colonized. Racial differentiations, cemented through the colonial relationship, are integral to the aggregation of violence during and after colonialism: “Manichaeism [division of the universe into opposites of good and evil] goes to itslogical conclusion and dehumanizes” Within this dehumanizing framework, Fanon argues that the violence resulting from the destruction of everyday life, sense of self and imagination under colonialism continues to infest the post-colonial existence by integrating colonized land into the violent destruction of a new “geography of hunger” and exploitation (Fanon 1963: 96). The “geography of hunger” marks the context and space in which oppression and exploitation continue. 
The white racial frame restructures this space to fit the imagery of symbolic racism, modifying it to fit the television screen, or making the evidence of the necessity of the politics of exclusion, and the violence of war and genocide, palatable enough for the front page of newspapers, spread out next to the morning breakfast cereal. Two examples of this “geography of hunger and exploitation” are Iraq and New Orleans. 


<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">COUNTER-ADVOCACY SOLVES FOR THE POLICING OF “BLACK BODIES” </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">CRITICAL EXAMINATION OF WELFARE POLICY PROVES </span>
OUR DISCOURSE IS AN INCLUSION OF THE IMMIGRANT EXPERIENCE 

We are not SILENT about the constructed BLACK culture of poverty but instead see PRWORA’s most IMMEDIATE and VULNERABLE targets among welfare-dependent immigrants from the Third World, a SIMULTANEOUS ASSAULT on poor Blacks and Third World immigrants operating as DISCRETE racial initiatives and taking both groups as a COMBINED COORDINATE of the nation’s CONSERVATIVE welfare policy. 

TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000 
Eric-; //COLLATERAL DAMAGE: Southeast Asian Poverty in the United States//; SOCIAL TEXT 62; Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring; p.56-57. 
Certainly, we can read PRWORA as part of an ongoing punishment of this constructed black culture of poverty. However, as we currently witness the first phase of PRWORA’s implementation, we find its most immediate and vulnerable targets among welfare-dependent immigrants from the Third World. Considering PRWORA as a //racial project//-to borrow the term from Michael Omi and Howard Winant-we may interpret it as a simultaneous assault on poor blacks and Third World immigrants. While we have witnessed numerous legislative attacks against both groups over the past decade-from the congressional Family Security act (FSA) of 1988 to California’s anti-immigrant Proposition 187-such attacks have operated as rather discrete racial initiatives. Indeed, FSA was clearly aimed at disciplining the black welfare recipient by forcing her to participate in highly exploitative “workfare” programs in exchange for welfare benefits, as well as by policing her with new measures aimed at curbing welfare fraud. Undergirding the support for FSA was the racist image of a black single mother who augmented her welfare benefits by giving birth to numerous children. Meanwhile, Proposition 187, an act that sought to deny immigrants (both documented and undocumented) access to virtually all public benefits in California, was promoted with an equally compelling yet definitively immigrant imagery-that of the Mexican “hordes” making a mad dash for the U.S. border, or Asian immigrant families overcrowding California cities and suburbs. Although both legislative acts were aimed at dismantling the welfare state, their successful passage was made possible by two distinct sets of racial rhetoric and imagery. Yet by implementing anti-immigrant measures as its first step in a broader push to deny welfare to both immigrants and nonimmigrants, PRWORA was unique in that it momentarily abandoned the racial logic that guided preceding legislation. Indeed, PRWORA, as a racial project, did not separate “native” blacks from third World immigrants. On the contrary, the two groups were taken as a combined coordinate, a rare and perhaps unwitting disclosure of their common location vis-à-vis the nation’s conservative welfare policy. 



<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">“MODEL MINORITY XTN” </span></span>

MILITARY PRESENCE DEMANDS REEVALUATION OF THE MODEL MINORITY 

THE COUNTER-ADVOCACY IS A “BETTER” DISCUSSION OF THE TOPIC 

KIM Asst Prof of Sociology @ Loyola Marymount Univ. 2k8 
Nadia-; //IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul To LA.//; p. 2-3 
Upon combing articles and books and enrolling in numerous courses on “race” and ethnicity as a means to understand the chaos around me, I realized that most of the classic tools and theories I was given, such as various assimilation accounts, seemed to simplify the Asian immigrant experience by predicting that Koreans, as model minorities, would assimilate along most societal lines and “whiten.” Unsatisfied, I began to harvest the fruits of my longtime intellectual curiosity and desire for social change. I returned to my mother’s stories and peered beyond Los Angeles and the United States to ask other questions. For instance, did Koreans’ history of being subjugated by U.S. imperial rule and their exposure to American racial hierarchies in their ethnic homeland not matter in any way? Did the U.S. government’s lack of regard for Korean Americans and South Korea have anything to do with its inaction when Koreatown was burning for days, in contrast to its swift troop movement once Beverly Hills was //potentially// threatened (Cho 1993; E. Kim 1993)? Did the racial ideology of Asian Americans as foreigners in the United States play no role, a notion that seemed to originate with U.S. imperialism? I realized that the classic social scientific literature could not help me fully understand such tragedies as the 1992 unrest. For one, the literature started and stopped its analyses within U.S. boundaries. If most Koreans (and other Asian Americans) had been arriving in the United States since 1970, however, I knew that the previous decades of U.S. dominance or influence in their home country had already been grounded in racial hierarchies. As Yen Le Espiritu (2003:210; see A. Ong 1996) aptly remarks in the case of Filipinos in the United States, their lives-and I believe Koreans’ lives- are “shaped not only by the social location of their group within the United States but also by the position of their home country within the global racial order.” In other words, a consideration of racialization //across borders// (Espiritu 2003) and through //multiple and related lines of inequality// (C. Kim 1999) begs reevaluation of the assimilating, whitening Asian model minority and of U.S. “race” inequality more broadly. By way of the global and multiracial framework, this book pursues a cross-border analysis of “imperialist racial formations” in South Korea and in the United States (Omi and Winant 1994). That is, I analyze the hegemonic link between the U.S. state and social movements, the backbone of American “race” dynamics in both countries, in a context of American imperialism. I do so from the vantage of the margins because macro social structures often do not reveal as much about the nature of power as those who are marginalized, who live the contradictions (Glick Schiller 2005). I draw primarily, then, on interviews with Koreans in Los Angeles County, California, and Seoul, south Korea (Republic of Korea or ROK), and I draw secondarily on ethnographic observations in Seoul, informal observations in Los Angeles, and archival newspaper research. Conducting multisite fieldwork rather than practicing what Andreas Wimmer and Nina Glick Schiller (2003) call “methodological nationalism” allows me to capture the nature of American racial dominance in South Korea and its links to “race” within its own borders, as well as the cross-border lenses that immigrants use to navigate U.S. color and citizenship lines. 


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">“BLACK/WHITE BINARY XTN” </span></span>

U.S. MILITARY PRESENCE ENTRENCES THE BLACK/WHITE BINARY 

THE COUNTER-ADVOCACY IS A “BETTER” DISCUSSION OF THE TOPIC 

KIM Asst Prof of Sociology @ Loyola Marymount Univ. 2k8 
Nadia-; //IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul To LA.//; p. 107-108 
In the last chapter, I asserted that Koreans suffer the paradox of being dominated by the United States but being a nation unfamiliar to most Americans. This paradox, coupled with South Korea’s subordinate status to the advanced West in the global order, has secured their overall sense of invisibility and partial presence. The paradox further betrays the fact that Koreans are not important to Americans outside of the military-capitalist-cultural dividends the occupation brings. Although the U.S. White-over-Black order has reinforced Koreans’ sense of “middle” positioning above Blacks, it has also reinforced to South Koreans that they are not part of the binary at all, hence their invisibility in the United States and, by extension, the globe. In other words, the relationship between the White West and Black peoples has largely muted the existence-cum-salience of other nations such as South Korea. Furthermore, as “Americans,” or more precisely, “American” service people, both Whites and Blacks engender and reproduce Koreans’ partial presence in their own country. 
When focusing on their social position //within// the United States, South Koreans had some idea that White Americans coexisted with Asian Americans. Yet the following narratives make clear that Korean/Asian Americans (or Latinos, for that matter) were not part of the American national identity. Such a perception-that America belongs to Whites, secondarily to blacks, and to no other group-is shaped by the visibly White-Black “face” of the U.S. military. Similarly, in American mass media, Whiteness is the reference point while blacks have been the most consistently visible subjects of political discourse about non-Whites in the United States (Entman and Rojecki 2000:xi). Koreans, then, especially in recent decades, have come to the United States with the knowledge that Blacks are “more American” while they themselves lack political visibility and recognition (see Taylor 1994). For those old-timers who left South Korea in the 1970s and early 1980s, America’s reference point was White; if there was anyone else, however, there were Black people. Ms. Go recollects her notions of “Americans” prior to her emigration in 1973: 
G: like when I was in Korea, actually, I thought everybody who lived here were //White people//, that’s what I thought (laughs). 
N: Was it because that was all you saw or for other reasons? 
G: You didn’t see much, //only White and Black//, only two kinds of races living here.


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">“THE POLICING OF YELLOW BODIES XTN” </span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
Our Thrupkaew evidence indicates that the CONSERVATIVE right have largely IGNORED the plight of Southeast Asians and VINDICATED the American Dream citing Asians as LIVING PROOF of the power of the FREE MARKET by dramatically SKEWING data by combining educated Asian immigrants and Southeast Asian REFUGEES from Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam under the Title ASIAN for research and funding purposes. 

Grouped together under an ARTIFICIAL label, civil rights become a DIFFICULT subject to Asian Americans 

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Wu</span></span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Vice Chair of Research of the Committee of 100,<span class="cite"><span style="line-height: 115%;">et al. ’09</span> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> Frank Wu, author of “Yellow: Race in America Beyond Black and White,” professor at many universities; Yong Lu, Research Director of the Committee of 100, researched US-China political relations at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Center for Strategic and International Studies, reporter for US and Chinese media (“Still the ‘Other?’,” http://survey.committee100.org/2009/files/FullReportfinal.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> <span class="underline0">Discrimination and diversity are hard subjects for us to discuss. Racial and ethnic issues are controversial, and it’s easy for emotions and stereotypes to overwhelm reason and data. Civil rights are</span> an <span class="underline0">even more difficult</span> subject as <span class="underline0">to Asian Americans. People</span> seem to assume <span class="underline0">that individuals</span> and communities <span class="underline0">coming across the Pacific</span> Ocean, <span class="underline0">rather than the Atlantic</span> Ocean <span class="underline0">or the Rio Grande, are well-off or only temporarily here</span>. Of course <span class="underline0">many Asian immigrants and their</span> American-born <span class="underline0">descendants have achieved great success</span>. Some of them indeed travel back and forth within the global economy and are at home in Shanghai as New York City. There is a tremendous diversity, too, within this population that is grouped together under an artificial label. They range from students to entrepreneurs, recently-landed refugees to fifth generation Californians, adoptees to mixed-race persons enthusiastic about claiming multiple heritages. This survey shows that <span class="underline0">we are accepted on the whole, but doubts about our loyalty persist in the background. We are regarded positively, yet compliments also can turn into criticism as working hard is deemed to be unfair competition</span>. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">“A2: PERMUTATION” </span></span>

DOESN’T SOLVE THE POLICING OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN BODIES 

The PERMUTATION is a CO-OPTION strategy that is REPRESENTATIVE of the status quo’s policing of yellow bodies by rendering them INVISIBLE in the discussion of DOMESTIC WARFARE through issues such as poverty. 

TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000 
Eric-; //Refugee Reality: Clinton’s Vietnam Fiction//; COLORLINES the national news magazine on race and politics; Issue 10, Fall; [[http://www.colorlines.com/printerfriendly.php?ID=219]]
During his visit to Vietnam this past week, President Clinton urged the Vietnamese people to embrace the free market, pointing to the "peace and prosperity" that it has brought to millions across the globe, including the Vietnamese who now live in the United States. Arriving on American shores as refugees over twenty years ago, Vietnamese Americans, the President claimed, have been fully integrated into American labor markets, enterprises, and professions. 
In fact, Vietnamese and other Southeast Asian refugees suffer the highest per capita welfare participation rates of any race or ethnic group in the U.S. In 1990, 46 percent of all Southeast Asians in the U.S. lived below the poverty line and their median income was only $18,300 (compared to $31,100 for whites). And 45 percent of Southeast Asian students in this country fail to complete high school. 
To laud the supposed wonders of the free market to the people of Vietnam, President Clinton fictionalized the conditions of their compatriots in the U.S. and ignored the hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese refugees who live in deep poverty, are stuck on welfare, or forced to toil in American sweatshops. In the noxious tradition of American presidents, Clinton heaped insult upon injury to the Vietnamese to advance his own agenda. 
The vast majority of Vietnamese refugees were boat people who survived a harrowing sea journey only to spend extended periods in U.S. refugee camps. Between 1975 and 1991, just over a million were allowed to settle in the United States with the help of sponsoring organizations and families. Although refugee assistance programs were created to "integrate" Vietnamese refugees into the primary labor market, many of these programs were dismantled before they could forge a real impact. 
By the late-1980s, Congress killed most refugee assistance programs and Vietnamese and other Southeast Asian refugees were stripped of the nominal protection previously offered by their refugee status. They were quickly reclassified as permanent residents, and were fully subject to the new wave of anti-immigrant legislation that came to dominate the early-to-mid 1990s. 
The combined impact of failed refugee adaptation programs and anti-immigrant measures has resulted in the deepening of poverty among most Vietnamese Americans. In states such as California, welfare participation rates among Vietnamese Americans has reached as high as 75 percent. Because welfare invariably fails to offer enough for a family's basic survival, many Vietnamese American adults and children--particularly women--have been forced into low-wage labor in industries ranging from garment work, to microchip factories, to farm work. 
Mass poverty has inevitably led to the expansion of Vietnamese youth gangs, which are subcontracted by business owners to "regulate" the informal, highly exploitative, and ephemeral industries of the ethnic enclave. 
Nearly 70 percent of the Vietnamese community in the Bronx--home to the largest concentration of Southeast Asian residents in New York--are receiving some form of public assistance. With the recent cuts to city welfare programs, many of these Vietnamese adults and children have been compelled to take up sweatshop labor. Indeed, in his efforts to "end welfare as we know it," President Clinton signed into law a number of draconian measures that stripped the immigrant poor of vital benefits, particularly food stamps. 
From its work in the Vietnamese community of the Bronx, the Committee Against Anti-Asian Violence has documented hundreds of cases wherein Vietnamese welfare participants have been either dropped from welfare rolls without explanation, pushed off of welfare as a result of unreasonable workfare requirements, and systemically denied existing job training programs-meanwhile, city officials demand their seamless transition from welfare to work. 
On any given day, one can tour the waiting areas of Bronx welfare centers and find Vietnamese women struggling to hold on to whatever benefits they are still entitled to. Invariably they are accompanied by a Vietnamese interpreter--usually a child as young as nine-years-old. 
In the post-Cold War era Vietnamese refugees are no longer useful to help America recover from its own internal war over Vietnam. No longer do images of boatloads of Vietnamese refugees safely arriving in American cities and suburbs work to ease a guilty national conscience. In the post-Cold war, it has been all too easy to forget the Southeast Asian refugee community entirely, to terminate virtually all refugee assistance programs, to allow refugee families to slip deeper and deeper into urban poverty. 
And yet, as President Clinton makes the first U.S. presidential visit to Vietnam since the rise of Ho Chi Minh City, these Vietnamese refugees, now re-cast as American success stories, are once again evoked. They are fictional characters, designed to convince the Vietnamese people of a prosperity that awaits them upon pledging citizenship to the free market. 

THE STRUCTURES OF WHITE SUPREMACY WILL NEVER ALLOW AN EXAMINATION OF BOTH AND IN FACT WILL USE ONE AGAINST THE OTHER 

CRITICAL AND SCHOLARLY EXAMINATIONS OF WELFARE PROVE 

THE WELFARE DISCOURSE ON RACE IGNORES THE PLIGHT OF ASIANS 

TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000 
Eric-; //COLLATERAL DAMAGE: Southeast Asian Poverty in the United States//; SOCIAL TEXT 62; Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring; p.57-58. 
Allowing our optimism to gain the best of us, we may view any resistance to the implementation of PRWORA as an opportunity to assert common interests and political alliances, to make those very crucial connections across poor and racialized communities. Yet the first two years has failed to yield such a united front. Although opposition to PRWORA has emerged from numerous political sectors-ranging from grassroots organizations, the civil rights establishment, and independent policy groups-very few of these challenges openly acknowledge what is commonly at stake between the black working class and the third World migrant. Indeed, from across the political spectrum, community advocates, welfare pundits, and ethnic journalism insist that Asian American poverty resides in a sphere quite distinct, if not contradistinctive, to that of the black culture of poverty. So too, on the scholarly front, social scientists have produced numerous studies whose organizing questions presuppose the mutual exclusion between “native” blacks on the one hand and Third World immigrants on the other. At the vanguard of this body of scholarly work is the sociological subfield known as the “economic sociology of immigration.” The core assumptions of this subfield suggest that immigrants are inclined to engage in a set of social and cultural practices-namely, tight kinship networks-which save them from underclass status. Here, we are confronted with the rudiments for what I consider a discourse of the immigrant as the “deserving poor.” Much like the theory of an undeserving poor, the location of the deserving poor is determined by a set of sedimented behaviors that constitute a culture of poverty. Yet the behaviors that form this “immigrant culture of poverty” are organized in such a way that they guarantee a teleology of arrival and survival, as opposed to the devolution of a decidedly black underclass. 

ONLY THE COUNTER-ADVOCACY SOLVES BLACK/WHITE BINARY 

WE HAVE A DISAD TO THE PERMUTATION 

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Hutchinson</span></span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Prof of Law, Washington College of Law, American U,<span class="cite"><span style="line-height: 115%;">’04</span> </span></span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> Darren Lenard, Aug 2004 (“Critical Race Theory: History, Evolution, and New Frontiers,” American University Law Review, LN) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Ultimately, however, <span class="underline0">the exclusive deployment of a binary black/white paradigm artificially narrows racial discourse and harms racial justice efforts. In order to construct adequate antiracist theories and</span> to <span class="underline0">develop</span> effective <span class="underline0">remedies for racial injustice, Critical Race Theorists must excavate the multidimensional harms that racial injustice causes, including harms that are racial but not endured by blacks</span>. Furthermore, <span class="underline0">progressive racial politics can only survive with broad political support. The most likely support for progressive racial change comes from persons of color. Yet, the deep divisions that result from binary racial politics hinders the formation of</span> helpful <span class="underline0">antiracist alliances</span>. Finally, <span class="underline0">a multiracial discourse may help blacks demonstrate the pervasiveness of racial inequality. Whites tend to view racism as a relic of prior generations</span>, and they often respond to blacks' claims of ongoing racial injustice with suspicion. n108 Moreover, [*1203] <span class="underline0">in a white-supremacist culture, binary racial discourse obscures the experiences of discrimination experienced by Latinos and Asian Americans</span>. n109 <span class="underline0">As a result, whites argue that blacks should emulate "model minorities," usually Asian Americans, who either do not suffer from racism or do not believe that racism injures them enough to oppose it on a political level</span>.. n110 <span class="underline0">Binary racial discourse therefore allows whites to discredit blacks' claims of racism by offering Asian Americans as proof that the United States has eradicated racial injustice, or that blacks can easily overcome what "little" racism still exists. Multiracial discourse, however, offers a powerful rebuttal to this negative and deceitful discourse. By portraying the complexity of racial inequality, Critical Race Theorists can counter a white-supremacist narrative that disparages blacks' assertions of racial injustice by deploying model minority constructs</span>. n111</span>**



==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Greenhill Neg</span>**== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alliance CP</span>=== 



Text – The United States federal government should:**

• emphasize the multi-purpose role of its Marine presence in Japan, specifically emphasizing that its Marine presence is critical to humanitarian relief and counter-terrorism operations;
• enter into bilateral discussion of past practices of cooperation in hosting US military forces in Japan and incorporate governors in areas hosting US military presence into conversation about hosting forces;
• co-base Marines, other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit as well as a comparable number of Marines to maintain pre-positioned equipment and maintain access arrangement for the emergency use of Japanese facilities, along with troops from Japan;
• redeploy those Marines to Guam upon completion of requisite base infrastructure.

Emphasizing humanitarian and counter-terrorism elements of the alliance solves backlash.
Ennis, 1AC author, ‘10
Peter Ennis, 1AC Author, a US correspondent of Weekly Tokyo Keizai, a Japanese business journal. His insights based on the background interviews with the key players are noteworthy. February 2008, 2010, NBR, “National Bureau of Asian Research, A US-based think tank on Asian policis “Peter Ennis on Futenma and Alliance,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nbrforums.nbr.org/foraui/message.aspx?LID=5&MID=36602]]</span>
3) Marine role: <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">In Japan</span></span>, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">the Marines should emphasize their multi-purpose role, pointing out how critical they are to humanitarian relief and counter-terrorism operations</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">This would sell well in Japan, especially if it were combined with co-basing</span></span> (mentioned above), <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">in which JSDF forces were also geared toward Peacekeeping and humanitarian relief</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">The Marines are understandably reluctant to be tagged as some kind of permanent "emergency services unit".</span></span> They are warriors, and they should stay that way. But <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">in today's world of counter-insurgency, a force that is able to multi-task is critical. In Japan, the notion of the Marines as an "ESU" would be great PR</span></span>... because <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">it has the virtue of often being true. In the end, the alliance will survive</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">My argument is that this is a great opportunity that should be seized. Japan – a left-center Japan -- is willing to have a larger security role in the world, but not one that rubber stamps bad American decisions. The US should actively pursue this chance, and not be locked into the details of replacing Futenma. </span></span>

Engaging local government solves political opposition to the alliance.
Smith ‘10
Sheila A., senior fellow for Japan Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations and former Assistant Professor, Department of International Relations, Boston University, Before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and the Global Environment, ““U.S.-Japan Relations: Enduring Ties, Recent Developments,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.internationalrelations.house.gov/111/smi031710.pdf]]</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">The demand for greater transparency and accountability is part of any democratic nation’s politics</span></span>, and <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">in virtually every area of public policy, our governments are expected to respect the public’s rights to ask questions about priorities, procedures and policy choices</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Support for the U.S.-Japan alliance remains strong in Japan. </span></span>But <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">it is the policy management practices of maintaining 50,000 troops on the ground that needs some adjustment.</span></span> Like many other societies that host U.S. military forces, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">there is a sense that the needs of local communities are not getting the attention they deserve. Japan’s governors, for example, articulate the need for a better set of guidelines for managing the environment on and around U.S. military bases</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Obligated by local law to monitor and manage natural resources, governors in prefectures hosting U.S. military bases run into unique obstacles to the implementation of their obligations</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Domestic law and the Status of Forces Agreement do not mesh well on the task of environmental management, and this needs greater attention.</span></span> Thus<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">, a bilateral discussion of the past practices of cooperation in hosting U.S. military forces in Japan could provide the opportunity to strengthen the relationship between U.S. commanders and local communities, and satisfy the growing desire for greater government accountability that is part and parcel of Japanese democracy. Incorporating local governors in the conversation would be a crucial first step to ensuring that the local impacts of the U.S. military are fully accommodated in national policy decisions. </span></span>

Co-basing solves the alliance better—it improves interoperability between US and Japanese soldiers.
Smith ‘10
Sheila A., senior fellow for Japan Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations and former Assistant Professor, Department of International Relations, Boston University, Before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and the Global Environment, ““U.S.-Japan Relations: Enduring Ties, Recent Developments,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.internationalrelations.house.gov/111/smi031710.pdf]]</span>
5) <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Japan’s Self-Defense Forces ought to be based alongside the U.S. military</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Building new military bases, dedicated for use solely by U.S. forces, seems politically to be a bridge too far in contemporary Japan</span></span>. Finally, it seems obvious now, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">after a decade of trying to construct a new base in Okinawa for the U.S. Marine Corps</span></span>, that <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">we are refusing to see a fundamental political reality in Japan</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">There is little appetite for constructing new military bases, especially those dedicated solely to use by the U.S. military</span></span>. If <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">a deeper analysis and set of decisions regarding the requisite level and type of U.S. military presence in Japan is the first step in thinking about our long-term goals of military cooperation, then it seems to me that there is a second order conversation to be had about how we achieve those ends</span></span>. At a time when <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">the Asia-Pacific region is moving in the direction of greater regionalism and stronger efforts at finding cooperative approaches to ensuring regional stability</span></span>, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">we might want to turn our efforts toward a more mature basing strategy in Japan</span></span>. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">The U.S. military partnership with the Self-Defense Forces is a strong and close one, and their effectiveness in meeting the changing defense needs of Japan—and the emerging needs of the region—will in large part depend on their ability to operate alongside each other.</span></span> Functionally, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">there may continue to be different roles and missions for each national military, but the real need will be for deep understanding of each other’s perspectives and approach to carrying out their missions. Just as the need for joint exercises and interoperability reflects the integrative approach to our military cooperation, so too should our basing strategy</span></span>. The Japanese people should be given the opportunity by their own government to understand the value of our bilateral military cooperation to their own livelihood and future prosperity. Moreover, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">they should see in front of them not bases with American flags and barbed wire, but bases with the Japanese and American flags staffed by both of our militaries to better reflect the reality of how our military cooperation ought to work. Joint use of bases by the U.S. military and the SDF should not just be a means to an end; it should be a reflection of the maturity of our bilateral military cooperation as well as our demonstration of the fact that the time has come to shift more responsibilities to Japan’s own national military. </span></span>