[[toc]]
=Menlo-Atherton RR= 
For aff cites email [[mailto:leftyrosenthal@gmail.com|leftyrosenthal@gmail.com]]
For Neg cites email [[mailto:redstater94@yahoo.com|redstater94@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==1AC- Golden Desert== 

==[[#_Toc282264354]][[#_GoBack]]Contention 1: Inherency== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
[[#_Toc141637959]][[#_Toc141617491]]
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The United States has 90 B61 bombs positioned at Incirlik Airbase with no strategic value</span>**  
<span class="Author-Date">Today’s Zaman, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Istanbul News</span><span class="Author-Date">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">4/3/</span><span class="Author-Date">10<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, (“Report: US considers withdrawing nuclear bombs from Turkey”,</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.todayszaman.com/tz-web/news-206266-102-report-us-considers-withdrawing-nuclear-bombs-from-turkey.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States may withdraw … in Washington, told The Times. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="Author-Date">And, the number of US bombs in Turkey is projected to increase</span> 
<span style="tab-stops: 327.0pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Richard</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Weitz, </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis, the Hudson Institute, 4/12</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">/10 </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(“The Future of NATO’s Nuclear Weapons on Turkish Soil”, Turkey Analyst, Volume 3 No. 7, Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program Joint Center, </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.silkroadstudies.org/new/inside/turkey/2010/100412A.html</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: "Helvetica","sans-serif";">) </span></span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As part of the current … for the reasons described above. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
==[[#_Toc282264355]]== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw its tactical nuclear presence from the Republic of Turkey. </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
==[[#_Toc282264357]]== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Initially note that Iran is proliferating- attempts at negotiations will not materialize </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Reuters 11/5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/10 (Frederick Dahl, “FACTBOX - Nuclear proliferation risks to watch,” Reuters India, http://in.reuters.com/article/idINIndia-52699720101105?pageNumber=2)</span> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">REUTERS - </span>Iran says it is … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the 20 percent fuel from abroad.  </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Sanctions are hurting the public but the government is skirting them through loopholes </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Al Jazeera 11/13</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/10</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Iran sanctions: all pain, no gain,” D. Pravaz, [[http://english.aljazeera.net/indepth/features/2010/10/20101030124031952948.html]]) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline">In the game of sanctions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - a … Organisation (WTO)," said Salehi-Isfahani. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[CONTINUED] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">What </span>the sanctions<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and lack … </span>havaleh method of transferring funds.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Nuclear Iran causes Extinction</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">
Enders </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Wimbush 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Testimony before committee on house foreign affairs” Jan. 31. LEXIS) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From my perspective as someone … </span>__will result in Islam’s triumph worldwide__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Prolif causes Israeli attack by July 2011- they fear existential threat- the attack will cause mid-east war, crush US-Israeli relations, strengthen Iran, create peak oil crisis and increase terrorism- only the plan solves</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Goldberg 9/10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey Goldberg, national correspondent for The Atlantic, Author of the book Prisoners: A Story of Friendship and Terror, reporter on the Middle East and Africa, “The Point of No Return,” The Atlantic, <span style="color: black;">http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/09/the-point-of-no-return/8186</span>, September 2010) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But none of these things—… </span>__and still-besieged Jewish state.__  
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span></span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">There are ten scenarios for Nuclear escalation originating from Iran Strikes </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Russell 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James A. Russell, managing editor of Strategic Insights, the quarterly ejournal published by the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) in Monterey, California. He also serves as senior lecturer in the Department of National Security Affairs at NPS, where he is teaching courses on Middle East security affairs, terrorism, and national security strategy, “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East,” Institut Français des Relations Internationales, [[http://www.ifri.org/files/Securite_defense/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf]], Spring 2009) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">Iran’s response to what would … U.S. massive response – a potential “Armageddon” scenario. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Iran nuclearization sparks nuclear terror – multiple organizations interested and empirical conventional weapons transfers</span>** 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Emerson and Himelfarb 09, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Steven and Joel, executive director and senior writer of the Investigative Project on Terrorism, “Would Iran Provide a Nuclear Weapon to Terrorists?” Winter 2009, [[http://www.jewishpolicycenter.org/1532/iran-nuclear-weapon-to-terrorists]] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Iran could also provide a nuclear …__ </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">dropped on Hiroshima in August 1945. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">Nuclear terrorism causes extinction </span></span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">Morgan, 9</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In a remarkable website on nuclear … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">and suffering in a nuclear winter</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span></span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Iraninan nuclearization causes Saudi Arabian prolif- has means to do so through Pakistan- causes instability with India, middle eastern prolif and collapse of the NPT </span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Edelman //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">et al.</span>//11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( ERIC S. EDELMAN is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. ANDREW F. KREPINEVICH is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. EVAN BRADEN MONTGOMERY is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran: The Limits of Containment,” Foreign Affairs Vol. 90 No. 1, pp. 70-71, Jan/Feb 2011) </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Developing nuclear weapons remains a slow<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, … </span>, rather than violates, the NPT.  </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Saudi Arabian prolif causes “launch on warning” scenarios and regional nuclear war </span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Edelman //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">et al.</span>//11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( ERIC S. EDELMAN is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. ANDREW F. KREPINEVICH is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. EVAN BRADEN MONTGOMERY is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran: The Limits of Containment,” Foreign Affairs Vol. 90 No. 1, pp. 71-72 , Jan/Feb 2011) </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Were Saudi Arabia to acquire … , potentially triggering a **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">regional nuclear war. </span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">A nuclear middle east would create a new “great game” between Russia and the US- causes crisis instability</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> Edelman //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">et al.</span>//11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">( ERIC S. EDELMAN is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. ANDREW F. KREPINEVICH is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. EVAN BRADEN MONTGOMERY is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran: The Limits of Containment,” Foreign Affairs Vol. 90 No. 1, p. 73, Jan/Feb 2011)</span> 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, states outside the Middle … </span>Great Game, with unpredictable consequences.  </span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Plan increases Turkish diplomatic ability and won’t kill deterrence </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kibaroglu, 10</span>** <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[June, Mustafa, phd, professor Bilkent University in turkey, held a fellowship at Harvard, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#25] </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, these </span>__high-level meetings … an exception to this rule.__ <span class="reduce2"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span></span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Turkish credibility is key to reducing Iran’s arsenal – they’re the single most influential actor </span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ben-Meir, 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alon Ben-Meir, Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Affairs in New York University and teaches courses on the Middle East and international negotiations, Spring 2009, The Whitehead Journal of Diplomacy and International Relations, Nuclear Iran is Not an Option: A New Negotiating Strategy to Prevent Iran from Developing Nuclear Weapons) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
__The presence of a third party … has long and friendly relations.__  

**<span style="color: black;">Turkish credibility is the best avenue to stopping Iran- now is key</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="color: black;">Ben Meir, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [9/8/10. Alon, professor of IR NYU, Can Turkey Defuse Iran's Nuclear Challenge?”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/alon-benmeir/can-turkey-defuse-irans-n_b_709585.html]

</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Now is the time for … bridge between East and West<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
==[[#_Toc282264358]]== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Initially note that status quo nuclear policy invites the use of nuclear weapons in conventional situations- this doctrine makes nuclear use for battleground objectives inevitable </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Butfoy 09 (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andy Butfoy, senior lecturer in international relations at Monash University, “Obama versus the Pentagon”, Current Affairs and Culture, 9-25-09http://inside.org.au/obama-versus-the-pentagon/) </span>

__THE 9/11 terror attacks in 2001 led … found unsettling rather than reassuring__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">And, tactical nuclear weapons blur the line between nuclear weapons and conventional weapons – this crosses the firebreak point, crushing the nuclear taboo and leads to use of larger nuclear bombs  </span>**
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">Rajaraman 02</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor R. Rajaraman, Co-Chairman, International Panel on Fissile Materials, Emeritus Professor of Theoretical Physics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Ph.D from Cornell University, Member of the Science and Security Board on The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, “Ban battlefield nuclear weapons,” The Hindu Newspaper, http://www.hinduonnet.com/2002/04/22/stories/2002042200431000.htm, April 22, 2002) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__there are very sound … holocaust will be lost forever.__  

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">This notion of thinkability renders nuclear hesitancy irrelevant – contemplating use of previously disallowed weapons invites use of larger strategic weapons in war theatre </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Chossudovsky 2006</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa and Director of the Center for Research on Globalization, February 22, Is the Bush Administration Planning A Nuclear Holocaust?, http://www.countercurrents.org/us-chossudovsky190107.htm] </span>

__At no point since__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the … </span>__circumstances" in the "war theatre".__  

<span style="tab-stops: 20.0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Absent our firewall, nuclear war … </span>**<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">state. A probable escalation would follow.  </span></span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Maintaining non-strategic nuclear weapons makes proliferation inevitable – military utility as a nuclear doctrine ignites a new arms race to achieve battlefield objectives </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Woolf 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Amy, specialist in nuclear weapons policy at CRS, “Non-Strategic Nuclear Weapons,” January 14th, 2010, pg. 22-23 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">Critics of the Bush Administration’s … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, or to counter U.S. conventional superiority. </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The terminal impact is extinction – deterrence fails in a proliferated world.  </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Krieger, 2009 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[David, Pres. Nuclear Age Peace Foundation and Councilor – World Future Council, “Still Loving the Bomb After All These Years”, 9-4, [[https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger]]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan </span>__Tepperman’s article__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the … </span>__are more rational than Mr. Tepperman?__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"> </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">
</span></span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Withdrawing TNWs from Turkey is key to a global nuclear doctrine shift – prevents nuclear weapon use as a viable warfighting strategy</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Kibaroglu 10</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Mustafa, assistant professor in the Department of International Relations of Bilkent University in Ankara, “Turkey and Shared Responsibilities,” 2010, <http://www.amacad.org/pdfs/saganInside.pdf> </span></span>

<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">In his article, Scott Sagan outlines a …</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> nuclear disarmament cannot succeed.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Specifically, withdrawal of US weapons sets a precedent for the rest of the world </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Tannenwald 2005 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nina, Director of the International Relations Program and Joukowsky Family Research Assistant Professor at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, International Security, Spring)  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
__Today the taboo is reflected … rest of the world along.151__ 


<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Conventional ability offsets strategic TNW need - no scenario can’t be solved through conventional superiority </span></span>**</span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Stanley Foundation 08</span></span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">, Stanford University’s Center for International Security and Cooperation, “US Nuclear Weapons Doctrine: Can We Adopt No First Use?” April 4th, 2008, <span style="color: black;">http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/publications/pdb/NoFirstUsePDB708.pdf</span> </span></span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"> </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">Some conference participants questioned <span style="font-size: 9pt;">…</span> much like mating warheads to missiles. </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">We control terminal uniqueness on miscalc claims - the growing willingness to use TNWs makes miscalculation inevitable
Blair 2007</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bruce, founder and president of the World Security Institute, “A Rebuttal of the U.S. Statement on the Alert Status of U.S. Nuclear Forces”, Center for Defense Information, November[[#LastEdit]] 6, p. <span style="color: black;">http://www.cdi.org/program/document.cfm?documentid=4135</span>] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">Both the United States and … of a nuclear confrontation between them.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> </span></span>


==1AC- GDS== 

===<span style="display: block; font-size: 140%;">Contention 1- Inherency </span>=== 


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">1) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">The United States has 90 B61 bombs positioned at Incirlik Airbase with no strategic value</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Today’s Zaman,** </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Istanbul News</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**,** </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">4/3/</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**10**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, (“Report: US considers withdrawing nuclear bombs from Turkey”,</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.todayszaman.com/tz-web/news-206266-102-report-us-considers-withdrawing-nuclear-bombs-from-turkey.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;">The United States may withdraw … in Washington, told The Times. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">2) <span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, the number of US bombs in Turkey is projected to increase</span> </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Richard</span></span> **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Weitz, </span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis, the Hudson Institute, 4/12</span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">/10</span></span>** <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(“The Future of NATO’s Nuclear Weapons on Turkish Soil”, Turkey Analyst, Volume 3 No. 7, Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program Joint Center, </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.silkroadstudies.org/new/inside/turkey/2010/100412A.html</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">) </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;">As part of the current … for the reasons described above. </span></span>

===<span style="font-size: 130%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; marginbottom: 0pt; marginleft: 0in; marginright: 0in; margintop: 0in;">Plan Text</span>=== 

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> </span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw its tactical nuclear presence from Turkey </span>**</span>



=== === 
===**<span style="font-size: 130%;">Turkey Soft Power </span>**=== 

<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">1)</span>


<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Turkey soft power low- Israel peace talks and challenges to regional power prove </span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Global Information Network 7/26**/<span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 (“ TURKEY: ERDOGAN SEEKS ROLE AS PEACE BROKER IN REGIONAL DISPUTES,” proquest)</span> </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">__The chemistry between Ankara and …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Palestinians' hearts and minds. </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">We’ll isolate __impacts:__ </span>**</span>


====<span style="font-size: 130%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; marginbottom: 0pt; marginleft: 0in; marginright: 0in; margintop: 0in;">Iran Prolif</span>==== 

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> </span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">1) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Iran is developing nuclear weapons </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Greg </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Bruno**</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 3/10/20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**10**</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Greg Bruno, Staff Writer for the Council on Foreign Relations, “Iran’s Nuclear Program”, </span><span class="CitesChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.cfr.org/publication/16811/irans_nuclear_program.html</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 12pt;">International skepticism of Iranian intentions … </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;">dimensions to Iran´s nuclear program<span style="color: #333333;">." </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">2) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Iran is still developing nuclear weapons in face of new sanctions </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Katzman 4/9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/10 (Kenneth Katzman, Specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs, “Iran Sanctions,” Congressional Research Service, <span style="color: black;">http://assets.opencrs.com/rpts/RS20871_20100409.pdf</span>) </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> George W. </span>__Bush Administration decided … result in Islam’s triumph worldwide__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__</span></span>



[[#_GoBack]]**3) Nuclear Iran causes Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Enders </span>**Wimbush 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Testimony before committee on house foreign affairs” Jan. 31. LEXIS) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From my perspective as someone … </span>__result in Islam’s triumph worldwide__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">4) </span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Israel will attack Iran by July 2011 because of the nuclear threat- the attack will cause mid-east war, crush US-Israeli relations, strengthen Iran, create peak oil crisis and increase terrorism- only the plan solves- star this card** </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Goldberg 9/10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey Goldberg, national correspondent for The Atlantic, Author of the book Prisoners: A Story of Friendship and Terror, reporter on the Middle East and Africa, “The Point of No Return,” The Atlantic, <span style="color: black;">http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/09/the-point-of-no-return/8186</span>, September 2010) </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">But none of these things—… </span>and still-besieged Jewish state. </span></span>



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">5) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Iran prolif leads to terror. </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Below 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[TIM D. Q. BELOW, Wing Commander for the Royal Air Force, (Master of Arts degree in Defence Studies from Kings College London), “OPTIONS FOR US NUCLEAR DISARMAMENT: EXEMPLARY LEADERSHIP OR EXTRAORDINARY LUNACY?,” A THESIS PRESENTED TO THE FACULTY OF THE SCHOOL OF ADVANCED AIR AND SPACE STUDIES FOR COMPLETION OF GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS, AIR UNIVERSITY MAXWELL AIR FORCE BASE, ALABAMA, JUNE 2008] </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The risk that Iran might … </span>certainly appears hard to contest </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica;">6) </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica;">Nuclear terrorism causes extinction </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**<span style="color: black;">Morgan, 9</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct) </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In a remarkable website on nuclear … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">and suffering in a nuclear winter</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span></span>


====<span style="font-size: 130%;">Middle East Instability </span>==== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Helvetica;"> </span><span style="display: block; font-family: Helvetica;"><span style="font-size: 130%;">1) </span>**Mideast instability is coming – Iraq withdrawal**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Shayji 7/5/**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 (Abdullah Al </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Shayji</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Chairman of the Political Science Department, Kuwait University, 7-5-2010, “Middle East at crossroads of prosperity and instability,” <span style="color: black;">http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/middle-east-at-crossroads-of-prosperity-and-instability-1.650123</span>) </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-weight: normal;">Add to this the stalemated … </span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">dodge any escalation or war.</span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">**2)** **Successful Turkish diplomacy is key to Middle East stability** **Çetinsaya**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> 20</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">**08**</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Gökhan Çetinsaya, Ph.D., Professor of History and International Relations at Istanbul Technical University, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, “The New Middle East, Turkey, and the Search for Regional Stability,” Atlantic Council, <span style="color: black;">http://www.acus.org/publication/us-turkey-relations-require-new-focus/cetinsaya</span>)</span>

</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Finally, it appears in recent months … cultural pluralism in the region. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">
<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">**3) A Middle East war escalates globally and causes every major impact – terrorism, economic decline, human rights abuses, collapse of democracies and free trade**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">**Forest 7**</span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> (</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">James, the director of terrorism studies at the U.S. Military Academy and the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point, “War Is a No-Win Scenario”, September 1, <span style="color: black;">http://www.allbusiness.com/government/government-bodies-offices/5523341-1.html</span>) </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">A regional war in the … war would naturally exacerbate this. </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">4)</span>** </span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Middle East war means miscalc --- Russia will exploit conflicts to undermine the US </span>**</span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**<span class="underline0">Laquer, 8</span>** <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(chairman of the International Research Council of the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) and former professor at Harvard, “Russia and the Middle East”, Middle East Strategy at Harvard, August 17, <span style="color: black;">http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/mesh/2008/08/russia_and_the_middle_east/</span>) </span></span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">The main aim will be … the door to serious miscalculations</span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">//**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-style: normal;">5) </span>**////**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-style: normal;">A U.S.-Russian nuclear war is the biggest internal link to extinction</span>**//
//<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">Nick </span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Bostrom</span>**//<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">, Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, March 20</span>//**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">02</span>**//<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal;">, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards </span>//</span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">A much greater existential risk … will encounter in the 21st century. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">6) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">War won’t remain limited --- conflict ensures great power __draw in__ </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Kober,**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute</span>**, 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> [Stanley, Ma 12th, “Guns of August in the Middle East?”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11805</span>] </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, </span>preparations for war__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on … </span>__has been characterized by war. </span></span>



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">7) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Plan increases Turkish diplomatic ability and won’t kill deterrence </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Kibaroglu, 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;"> [June, Mustafa, phd, professor Bilkent University in turkey, held a fellowship at Harvard, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, [[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu#25]]] </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover, these </span>high-level meetings … an exception to this rule. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">8) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Turkish credibility is key to reducing Iran’s arsenal – they’re the single most influential actor </span>**</span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Ben-Meir, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Alon Ben-Meir, Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Affairs in New York University and teaches courses on the Middle East and international negotiations, Spring 2009, The Whitehead Journal of Diplomacy and International Relations, Nuclear Iran is Not an Option: A New Negotiating Strategy to Prevent Iran from Developing Nuclear Weapons) </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">The presence of a third party … has long and friendly relations. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica;">9) </span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**<span style="color: black;">Removing B61s is key to Turkish diplomacy</span>** </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**<span style="color: black;">Ingram et al. 2009</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul Ingram, Executive Director at the British American Security Council, Claudine Lamond has recently graduated from the Australian National University holding a Bachelor of Arts in International Relations, and a Bachelor of Asian Studies, Security and Strategic Studies, and Japanese. “ Politics around US tactical nuclear weapons in European host states,” BASIC Getting to Zero Papers, No. 11, 1-23, http://www.basicint.org/gtz/gtz11.pdf) </span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">
<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica;">There have been public … would receive overwhelming public support. </span></span>




===<span style="font-size: 130%;">NATO Adv </span>=== 
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 22.5pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 130%;">1) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Recent talks within NATO over TNW’s prove they are divisive </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Jones** **5/7**/<span style="font-size: 8pt;">10</span>(<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris Jones, research assistant for the defense and national security team in the International Security Program, recipient of the 2008-2009 William J. Taylor CSIS debate internship and graduated magna cum laude with a B.A. in international relations from the University of Southern California, “ Process Over Politics: NATO’s TNW Decision,” [[http://csis.org/blog/process-over-politics-nato%E2%80%99s-tnw-decision]]) </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Over the past year, the … __<span style="font-size: 8pt;">on their list of proposals. </span>__</span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 22.5pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">2) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Reaching consensus on TNW removal is impossible- will collapse the alliance </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Thranert 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Oliver Thranert. ‚U.S. Nuclear Forces in Europe to Zero? Yes, But Not Yet‛ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, December 10, 2008, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=22533&prog=zgp&proj=znpp]] </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Building consensus on the role … race in the Middle East. </span></span>



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 22.5pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">3) </span>**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**<span style="color: black;">NATO Cohesion key to deal with political violence and prevent nuclear war</span>** </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif';">Brzezinski 09</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">, (Zbigniew Brzezinski, former U.S. National Security Adviser, Sept/Oct 2009, “An Agenda for NATO,” Foreign Affairs, 88.5, Ebsco)</span>

</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica; letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">NATO's potential is not primarily … and the West more generally. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 22.5pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">4) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Risk of security incidents create massive backlash and kills perception </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Lewis 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Director of the Nuclear Strategy and Nonproliferation Initiative at the New America Foundation. Dr. Lewis is the author of Minimum Means of Reprisal: China’s Search for Security in the Nuclear Age (MIT Press, 2007). Dr. Lewis is a research scholar at the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy (CSSIM) and a Contributor to the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists (June 20, [[http://www.armscontrolwonk.com/1921/nato-nukes-not-secure]] </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is crazy — </span>imagine what … that particular piece of hardware </span></span>



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 22.5pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">5) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">The debate would splinter the alliance- unilateral action is best </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**SOKOV 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Issue 4 Nikolai Sokov, Lead Author Tactical (Substrategic) Nuclear Weapons Four Emerging Issues in Arms Control, Disarmament, and Nonproliferation: Opportunities for German Leadership July 2009 Dennis M. Gormley, Patricia M. Lewis, Miles A. Pomper, Lawrence Scheinman, Stephen Schwartz, Nikolai Sokov, Leonard S. Spector Prepared for the Policy Planning Staff Foreign Office Federal Republic of Germany James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies [[http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/090717_german_leadership/german_leadership_6_issue_4.pdf]] </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">European </span>NATO members__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span>__are … __<span style="font-size: 8pt;">silent drawdown of these weapons. </span>__</span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 22.5pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">6) </span>****<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">Turkey TNW withdrawal key to full NATO withdrawal – key step in concerted effort to reduce weapons and repair cohesion </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;">**Bell 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Alexandra, Project Manager at the Ploughshares Fund and a Truman National Security Fellow, “Turkey’s Nuclear Crossroads,” August 25th, 2009, <http://www.good.is/post/turkey%E2%80%99s-nuclear-crossroads/> </span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica;"><span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">The removal of these tactical … </span>**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with whom I met would agree. </span>__</span></span>


==New Nuclear Warfighting Adv- USC== 


**Initially note that status quo nuclear policy invites the use of nuclear weapons in conventional situations- this doctrine makes nuclear use for battleground objectives inevitable**
**Butfoy 09 (**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andy Butfoy, senior lecturer in international relations at Monash University, “Obama versus the Pentagon”, Current Affairs and Culture, 9-25-09http://inside.org.au/obama-versus-the-pentagon/) </span>

__THE 9/11 terror attacks in 2001 led … found unsettling rather than reassuring__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**And, tactical nuclear wea[[#LastEdit]]pons blur the line between nuclear weapons and conventional weapons – this crosses the firebreak point, crushing the nuclear taboo and leads to use of larger nuclear bombs**
**<span style="color: black;">Rajaraman 02</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor R. Rajaraman, Co-Chairman, International Panel on Fissile Materials, Emeritus Professor of Theoretical Physics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, Ph.D from Cornell University, Member of the Science and Security Board on The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, “Ban battlefield nuclear weapons,” The Hindu Newspaper, http://www.hinduonnet.com/2002/04/22/stories/2002042200431000.htm, April 22, 2002) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__there are very sound … holocaust will be lost forever.__

**This notion of thinkability renders nuclear hesitancy irrelevant – contemplating use of previously disallowed weapons invites use of larger strategic weapons in war theatre**
**Chossudovsky 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Michael, Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa and Director of the Center for Research on Globalization, February 22, Is the Bush Administration Planning A Nuclear Holocaust?, http://www.countercurrents.org/us-chossudovsky190107.htm] </span>

__At no point since__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the … </span>__circumstances" in the "war theatre".__

<span style="tab-stops: 20.0pt;">**Absent our firewall, nuclear war would cause extinction**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 20.0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> <span class="CardTextChar">Larry</span> </span>**Ross 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span><span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"> <span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Founder of NZ Nuclear-Free Peacemaking Association, “RACING TOWARD EXTINCTION”, Dec 10, 2003 http://nuclearfree.lynx.co.nz/racing.htm)</span> </span></span>

__We have greatly changed …__ <span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">state. A probable escalation would follow. </span></span>

<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Withdrawing TNWs from Turkey is key to a global nuclear doctrine shift – prevents nuclear weapon use as a viable warfighting strategy</span>** </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Kibaroglu 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Mustafa, assistant professor in the Department of International Relations of Bilkent University in Ankara, “Turkey and Shared Responsibilities,” 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[[http://www.amacad.org/pdfs/saganInside.pdf]] </span></span>

<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> In his article, Scott Sagan … nuclear disarmament cannot succeed. </span> </span>

**Specifically, withdrawal of US weapons sets a precedent for the rest of the world**
**Tannenwald 2005** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nina, Director of the International Relations Program and Joukowsky Family Research Assistant Professor at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University, International Security, Spring) </span>

__Today the taboo is reflected … rest of the world along.151__


<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Conventional ability offsets strategic TNW need - no scenario can’t be solved through conventional superiority </span>**</span>
<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar">**<span style="font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">Stanley Foundation 08</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, Stanford University’s Center for International Security and Cooperation, “US Nuclear Weapons Doctrine: Can We Adopt No First Use?” April 4th, 2008, <span style="color: black;">http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/publications/pdb/NoFirstUsePDB708.pdf</span> </span></span>

<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Some conference participants questioned …</span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">much like mating warheads to missiles.</span> </span>


**We control terminal uniqueness on miscalc claims - the growing willingness to use TNWs makes miscalculation inevitable**
**Blair 2007**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bruce, founder and president of the World Security Institute, “A Rebuttal of the U.S. Statement on the Alert Status of U.S. Nuclear Forces”, Center for Defense Information, November 6, p. <span style="color: black;">http://www.cdi.org/program/document.cfm?documentid=4135</span>] </span>

<span class="UnderlinedCardTextChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Both the United States and … of a nuclear confrontation between them.</span></span>












=Negative= 
==Space Weaponization cites== 



**HAND attack poses the greatest existential risk- collapses the economy, kills deterrence capability, leads to the destruction of the free world- only a robust space weaponization system solves- star this card, it’s the beezneez**
**Kennedy 08** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brian T. Kennedy, president of the Claremont Institute and a member of the Independent Working Group on Missile Defense, “What a Single Nuclear Warhead Could Do,” The Wall Street Journal, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122748923919852015.html#articleTabs%3Darticle]], November 24, 2008)</span>

Think about this scenario: An … a reality as soon as possible. 

**China Recognizes That Attacking Space Assets is the Only Way to Ensure Invasion of Taiwan**
**Johnson-Freese 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joan Johnson-Freese, Position of Chair, Department of National Security Studies, at the Naval War College, Chair of the Transnational Studies Department, a Faculty Member at the Asia Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu, Hawaii, and the Director of the Center for Space Policy & Law at the University of Central Florida, Doctorate in Political Science, “China's Space Ambitions,” [[http://spacedebate.org/argument/1342#3252|Http://Spacedebate.Org/Argument/1342#3252]], Summer 2007) </span>

__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Let's Be Clear: </span>__Chinese … to Find an Asymmetric Advantage.__ 

[[#LastEdit]]
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Straits Times</span></span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">6-25-</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span></span>**,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">P Ln</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0">the DOOMSDAY SCENARIO</span> the High-… <span class="underline0">Puts Sovereignty Above Everything Else. </span></span>


===<span class="Underline">2NC China cards</span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**China will attack Taiwan soon- increased defense budget and “charming initiative”**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Focus Taiwan News Channel 8/31/**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">10 (“China military budget rises sharply: defense ministry,” [[http://focustaiwan.tw/ShowNews/WebNews_Detail.aspx?ID=201008310023&Type=aIPL]], 5:54 PM)</span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Taipei, Aug. 31 (CNA) </span>China increased … attack, according to the report</span>

<span class="Underline">**Chinese space weaponization is the most important internal link to invasion of Taiwan- US space weapons key to stop war- star this card** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Sietzen 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Frank Sietzen, member of the launch team for the Space.com, designer its B2B programs, Editor-In-Chief of Ad Astra magazine, published by the National Space Society, His areas of specialization have included ballistic missile evolution, commercial space transportation, and military space programs, “Chinese Ability to Invade Taiwan Kept in Check by Lack of Counterspace Capability,” http://spacedebate.org/evidence/1197/#)</span></span>

<span class="Underline">Chinese threats against Taiwan ring … anti-satellite system<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," it predicted.</span></span>


==GDS Strats== 
===Round 2 vs. Bishop Loughlin LM (SoKo):=== 

1NC:
Fem K
Politics (START)
Deterrence DA
Condition on DPRK Denuclearization
Case

2NR:
Deterrence and Case

===Round 3 v. GBN ML=== 

1NC:
T-non combat
Condition on Pakistan negotiation with India CP
Pakistan relations DA
Withdrawal DA
Politics DA (START)

2NR: 
T- non combat

===Round 6 vs. Centennial LM=== 

1NC:
Fem K
Politics
Space Weaponization CP
Case w/ deterrence

2NR:
Space Weaponization CP

==USC Strats== 
===Round 2 v. Meadows LR (SoKo)=== 

1NC:

Fem IR K
Denuclearization Condition CP
Deterrence DA
Reunification DA
START DA
Case

2NR:
Reunification DA
Case

===Round 3 v. Nevada Union WB (critical Japan)=== 

1NC:
Politics
Framework
Japan Quid Pro Quo CP
Case

2NR:
Framework

===Round 5 v. St. Francis CS (SoKo)=== 

1NC:


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Fem IR K</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Denuclearization Condition CP</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Deterrence DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Reunification DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">START DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Case</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR:</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Reunification DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Case</span>

==<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Golden Deset</span>== 

===<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 2 v. West BH</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">1NC:</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Fem IR K</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Reunification DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Debt Ceiling Politics</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Deterrence DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Condition on DPRK Denuclearization</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Case</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR:</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Reunification DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Case</span>

===Round 3: v. Millard South HA=== 

1NC:

Framework
NMS CP
Debt Ceiling Politics
case

2NR:

Framework
case

===Round 5 v. Palo Verde CC=== 

1NC:

Fem IR K
Reunification DA
Deterrence DA
Debt Ceiling Politics
DPRK Conditions CP

2NR:

Reunification DA
Case