----
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'lucida grande',tahoma,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: normal;">"**<span style="color: #3b5998; cursor: pointer; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.facebook.com/DJ.SpankDaddy|Matt Harkins]]</span>** ‎<span style="color: #3b5998; cursor: pointer; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.facebook.com/heideggerkid|Evan Sweet]]</span> I'm going to be honest, I never believed that "terrorist queer-fag" argument you made, but I guess I was wrong. One of the first posts that I saw was like "nu uh really? that fag is finally dead!""</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: 'lucida grande',tahoma,verdana,arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: normal;">I told all of you this shit was real</span>



=Affirmative= 

If you have any questions about aff cites, or just the team in general please email me at [[mailto:evsweet@gmail.com|evsweet@gmail.com]]


==The Empire Strikes Back - Wake 1ac== 

====Contention One: Empire Strikes Back==== 

===== ===== 
<span class="TagStyleChar">We have become seduced by images of violence. We consume violence as part of our daily experience. Empire becomes normalized through these images and our acceptance of them. We become invested in this violence to the point where it becomes acceptable to liquidate populations through the sexualized production of the racialsed other. </span>
<span class="TagStyleChar">Agathangelou et al. 2008</span> <span style="color: black;">(</span>//<span style="color: black;">RHR,</span>// <span style="color: black;">Winter, “Intimate Investments,” MUSE)</span>

Modern American empire is justified by 9/11, the terrorist has become the new Russian, a entity against America which needed to be destroyed at all costs.
<span class="cite">Harry </span><span class="TagStyleChar">Magdoff </span><span class="cite">and John Bellamy </span><span class="TagStyleChar">Foster</span><span class="cite"> 20</span><span class="Heading3Char">01</span> **<span style="color: black;">(Harry Magdoff and John Bellamy Foster editors of the Monthly Review. Notes from the Editors [[#Volume]] 53, Number 6. November 2001.<span style="color: black; text-decoration: none;">[[http://monthlyreview.org/nfte1101.htm]]</span></span>**


Our affirmative criticizes the way in which empire consolidates its self. Empire functions through our communal fears. We resolve these fears through the creation of enemies, the external terrorist and the urban criminal. 
<span class="TagStyleChar">Agathangelou et al. 2008</span> <span style="color: black;">(</span>//<span style="color: black;">RHR,</span>// <span style="color: black;">Winter, “Intimate Investments,” MUSE)</span>

<span style="color: black;">Contention Two: The War Abroad </span>


The terrorist monster has been constructed through images, which consolidate and focus our fears through the creation of sexually racialized deviants 
<span style="color: black;">Jasbir K</span><span class="TagStyleChar">. Puar</span><span style="color: black;"> and Amit S. </span><span class="TagStyleChar">Rai</span><span style="color: black;">. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 20</span><span class="TagStyleChar">02</span>


The terrorist monster fag is perpetuated through traditional discourse to differentiate the terrorist from the normal psyche. The terrorist is a sexually frustrated deviant who fails to become part of the normalized heterosexual community. 
<span style="color: black;">Jasbir K. </span><span class="TagStyleChar">Puar </span><span style="color: black;">and Amit S. </span><span class="TagStyleChar">Rai</span><span style="color: black;">. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 20</span><span class="Heading3Char">02</span>


These forms of heteronormative violence are not only directed towards the terrorist, but to all queer bodies. 
<span style="color: black;">Jasbir K. Puar and Amit S. Rai. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 2002</span>






====Contention Three: The War at home==== 


The city has become a space of fear, the threat of the terrorist looming everywhere shutting the public out and regulating whole populations making the citizen enemy. 
<span style="margin: 5pt 0.5in 5pt 0in;"><span class="Author-Date">Dudley 2007 </span><span class="cite">(Michael Dudley, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ez-proxy.brooklyn.cuny.edu:2048/journals/theory_and_event/toc/tae10.2.html|Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007]]</span> Accessed on Project Muse)</span></span>

The drive for domestic security is the drive to urbicide, the city is no longer a space of diversity, but instead a war zone protecting the pure from the queer urban bodies. This shuts down agonistic conflict in the name of security and is the drive towards fascism. 
<span style="margin: 5pt 0.5in 5pt 0in;"><span class="Author-Date">Dudley 2007 </span><span class="cite">(Michael Dudley, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.ez-proxy.brooklyn.cuny.edu:2048/journals/theory_and_event/toc/tae10.2.html|Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007]]</span> Accessed on Project Muse)</span></span>


The city is no longer a neutral space, but instead regulated through the fear of the terrorist, and the fear of deviant sexualized bodies. The city has become ravaged by large scale wars against those deemed criminal and deviant.
Graham 04 <span class="cite">(<span style="font-weight: normal;">Steven graham, Professor of Urban georgaphy university of Durham. The Postmodern city: Towards an Urban Geopolitics. Center of Contemporary Culture of Barcelona 2004 Conference lectured at the symposium "Urban Traumas. The City and Disasters". CCCB, 7-11 July 2004)</span></span>


====Thus, the United States federal government should eliminate military presence from Afghanistan==== 

====<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Solvency </span></span>==== 



<span style="color: black;">We must embrace the 1ac as a strategy of resistance against current counter terror practices. This is crucial to the creation of solidarity within those communities deemed deviant. </span>
<span style="color: black;">Jasbir K. Puar and Amit S. Rai. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 2002</span>



We affirm the right to the city through regaining the spaces we once inhabited. We must open up space to the public and allow natural interactions and end the securitization of the city from its inhabitants. 
<span style="text-indent: 0.5in;"><span class="Author-Date">Boudreau 7</span><span style="color: black;"> (</span><span class="cite"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.publicspace.org/ca/biblioteca/type:authors/value:julie-anne-boudreau|Julie-Anne Boudreau]]</span> Post Doctoral University of California "Architectures of Fear. Terrorism and the Future of Urbanism in the West" <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.publicspace.org/|www.publicspace.org]]</span>.) </span></span>




==<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**The Empire Strikes Back - GDS 1AC**</span>== 




===Contention one: the empire strikes back=== 
**<span style="font-size: 80%;">We have become seduced by images of violence. We consume violence as part of our daily experience. Empire becomes normalized through these images and our acceptance of them. We become invested in this violence to the point where it becomes acceptable to liquidate populations through the sexualized production of the racialsed other. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Agathangelou et al. 2008 (RHR, Winter, “Intimate Investments,” MUSE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">During the past three mention or attention.17 </span>

**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Modern American empire is justified by 9/11, the terrorist has become the new Russian, a entity against America which needed to be destroyed at all costs.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Harry Magdoff and John Bellamy Foster 2001 (Harry Magdoff and John Bellamy Foster editors of the Monthly Review. Notes from the Editors [[#Volume]] 53, Number 6. November 2001.[[http://monthlyreview.org/nfte1101.htm]]</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 70%; text-align: left; text-indent: 0.5in;">What explains this imperialist projection of U.S. power.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 80%;">America’s bloody attempt to rewrite the global narrative through the “war on terror” is a practice constructed by an intersection of both geopolitical economic interests and otherizing cultural representations</span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Derek Gregory in 2004 [“The Colonial Present: Afghanistan, Palestine, Iraq,” p. 16] </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">For the war on terror ur complicity in its horrors.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Our affirmative criticizes the way in which empire consolidates its self. Empire functions through our communal fears. We resolve these fears through the creation of enemies, the external terrorist and the urban criminal. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Agathangelou et al. 2008 (RHR, Winter, “Intimate Investments,” MUSE)</span>

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% transparent; font-size: 70%; margin: 0in 1pt; text-indent: 35pt;">M. Jacqui Alexander has originary nation be secured."24</span>
=== === 

===Contention Two is the War Abroad=== 

**<span style="font-size: 80%;">The terrorist monster has been constructed through images, which consolidate and focus our fears through the creation of sexually racialized deviants </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Jasbir K. Puar and Amit S. Rai. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 2002</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">To begin, let in "terrorism studies." </span>


=== === 
**<span style="font-size: 80%;">The terrorist monster fag is perpetuated through traditional discourse to differentiate the terrorist from the normal psyche. The terrorist is a sexually frustrated deviant who fails to become part of the normalized heterosexual community. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Jasbir K. Puar and Amit S. Rai. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 2002</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">As a and rituals of heteronormativite. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 80%;">These forms of heteronormative violence are not only directed towards the terrorist, but to all queer bodies. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Jasbir K. Puar and Amit S. Rai. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 2002</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">We start by simply after September 11</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Populations are manipulated, to the sovereign’s control. Soon all populations are regulated and manipulated by the sovereign’s control and results in the sacrifice of all populations.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Dean, 1 (Mitchell, Professor of Sociology at Macquarie University in Australia, States of Imagination, Eds: Hansen and Stepputat, (53-56) </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Consider again functioning of the modern state (232).</span>



===Contention three is the war at home=== 

**<span style="font-size: 80%;">The city has become a space of fear, the threat of the terrorist looming everywhere shutting the public out and regulating whole populations making the citizen enemy. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Dudley 2007 (Michael Dudley, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide [[http://muse.jhu.edu.ez-proxy.brooklyn.cuny.edu:2048/journals/theory_and_event/toc/tae10.2.html|Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007]] Accessed on Project Muse) </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">In addition cartographies of surveillance'"[[#_ednref7]][[http://muse.jhu.edu.ez-proxy.brooklyn.cuny.edu:2048/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2dudley.html#_edn7#_edn7|7]].</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">The public space has been militarized to protect against queer bodies. Domestic spaces have become as militarized as the foreign war zones. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Henry A Giroux, 20o4 (An American [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_critic|cultural critic]], and a theorist of critical pedagogy, a distinguished high school and college professor. “War on Terror, The Militarising of Public Space and Culture in the United States” Volume 18 Issue 4.) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The process of at home and war abroad. </span>




**<span style="font-size: 80%;">The drive for domestic security is the drive to urbicide, the city is no longer a space of diversity, but instead a war zone protecting the pure from the queer urban bodies. This shuts down agonistic conflict in the name of security and is the drive towards fascism. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Dudley 2007 (Michael Dudley, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide [[http://muse.jhu.edu.ez-proxy.brooklyn.cuny.edu:2048/journals/theory_and_event/toc/tae10.2.html|Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007]] Accessed on Project Muse) </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">It should be throughout the Middle East.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 80%;">The city is no longer a neutral space, but instead regulated through the fear of the terrorist, and the fear of deviant sexualized bodies. The city has become ravaged by large scale wars against those deemed criminal and deviant.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Graham 04 (Steven graham, Professor of Urban georgaphy university of Durham. The Postmodern city: Towards an Urban Geopolitics. Center of Contemporary Culture of Barcelona 2004 Conference lectured at the symposium "Urban Traumas. The City and Disasters". CCCB, 7-11 July 2004) </span>

<span style="line-height: 10.3pt; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">Far from of much else, remains terra incognita» (</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Hewitt</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">, 1983, p. 258). </span></span>

=== === 
===Contention Four: What is to be done.=== 

**<span style="font-size: 80%;">We must focus on actualized violence. Attempting to focus on large scale wars blinds us to the systematic, and makes violence inevitable.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Cuomo, 96 -- activist, artist, and Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies at the University of Cincinnati. She is the author of The Philosopher Queen: Feminist Essays on War, Love, and Knowledge-- (Chris, “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence!” hypatia, 1996, Proquest,) </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">Ethical approaches that inevitability of war and militarism. </span>

=== === 
**<span style="font-size: 80%;">We must embrace the 1ac as a strategy of resistance against current counter terror practices. This is crucial to the creation of solidarity within those communities deemed deviant. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Jasbir K. Puar and Amit S. Rai. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 2002 </span>

<span style="background-color: #000000; color: #ffffff; display: block; font-size: 70%; margin-bottom: 26.35pt; margin-left: 1pt; margin-right: 1pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify; text-indent: 0.25in;">In the contemporary, more docile modernity.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 80%;">We affirm the right to the city through regaining the spaces we once inhabited. We must open up space to the public and allow natural interactions and end the securitization of the city from its inhabitants. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Boudreau 7 ([[http://www.publicspace.org/ca/biblioteca/type:authors/value:julie-anne-boudreau|Julie-Anne Boudreau]] Post Doctoral University of California "Architectures of Fear. Terrorism and the Future of Urbanism in the West" [[http://www.publicspace.org/|www.publicspace.org]].) </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%; text-indent: 0.5in;">The “urban revolution resistance may flourish:</span>


**Thus we advocate the removal of US military presence from Afghanistan**


==Blake 1AC== 
**<span style="font-size: 80%;">The war on terror and occupation of Afghanistan has created a culture of violence. This violence has become part of our daily experience and we have come to accept it as normal. Our occupation is legitimized and allows the liquidation of populations.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Agathangelou et al. 2008 (RHR, Winter, “Intimate Investments,” MUSE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"During the past three ...merit mention or attention. "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Our affirmative criticizes the way in which empire consolidates its self. Empire functions through our communal fears. We resolve these fears through the creation of enemies, the external terrorist and the urban criminal. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Agathangelou et al. 2008 (RHR, Winter, “Intimate Investments,” MUSE)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">M. Jacqui Alexander has helped ...originary nation be secured."</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Specifically the new technological war on terror has divided the Arab from normal populations and engaged in violence against minority populations globally and locally. </span>**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 70%; text-align: left;">Graham 3 ( Stephen Graham, Stephen Graham is based in the Geography Department at the University of Durham, CITY, VOL. 8, NO. 2, JULY 2004 Postmortem city Towards an urban geopolitics1)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"Thus, such rhetoric conveniently ...globalization means war” </span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">The fear of the terrorist is perpetuated through the sexualization of the Arab to differentiate from the normal psyche. The terrorist is a sexually frustrated deviant who fails to become part of the normalized white heterosexual community. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Jasbir K. Puar and Amit S. Rai. “Monster, Terrorist, Fag: the War on Terrorism and the Production of Docile Patriots.” Social Text 20:3, 2002</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"As a leading light in ...and rituals of heteronormativite. "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">White Supremacy constantly reformulates the conception of the white citizen in order to neutralize and/or exterminate “sub-human” groups who cannot fit within the normative confines of American identity. . Dylan Rodriguez explains in 2007: </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;"> Dylan Rodriguez 07, Professor at UC Riverside, in 2007 describes the impact of white supremacy that US immigration history so clearly demonstrates[[opencaselist:Fullerton     Marvin Carter & Lee Thach Aff#_ftn31|[31]]], </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"Variable, overlapping, and mutually ...organic to its ordering. "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Through this narrative the city has become a space of fear, the threat of the terrorist and urban criminal looming everywhere shutting the public out and regulating whole populations making the citizen enemy. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Dudley 2007 (Michael Dudley, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide [[http://muse.jhu.edu.ez-proxy.brooklyn.cuny.edu:2048/journals/theory_and_event/toc/tae10.2.html|Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007]] Accessed on Project Muse)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"In addition to providing ...'multiple cartographies of surveillance' "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Deviant subjects are controlled through the regulation of the city. The urban securescape has become intimate in the creation of normalized American subjects though violent urban warfare.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Graham 04 (Steven graham, Professor of Urban georgaphy university of Durham. The Postmodern city: Towards an Urban Geopolitics. Center of Contemporary Culture of Barcelona 2004 Conference lectured at the symposium "Urban Traumas. The City and Disasters". CCCB, 7-11 July 2004)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"Far from going away, ...else, remains terra incognita "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">The drive for domestic security is the drive to urbicide, the city is no longer a space of diversity, but instead a war zone protecting the pure from the queer urban bodies. This shuts down agonistic conflict in the name of security and is the drive towards fascism. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%; margin: 5pt 0.5in 5pt 0in;">Dudley 2007 (Michael Dudley, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide [[http://muse.jhu.edu.ez-proxy.brooklyn.cuny.edu:2048/journals/theory_and_event/toc/tae10.2.html|Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007]] Accessed on Project Muse)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"It should be noted ....throughout the Middle East." </span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Fascism exists as a micro force situated on the local level. Our desire for security leads us to creates an all encompassing drive to violence and war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Deleuze and Guattari 1980 (ATP 214-215)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"It is not sufficient...both personal and collective. "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">We must resist fascism take back the city space. Public commons are key to creating an space of radical democracy.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Thrift and Amin 2 (Nigel Thrift Prof Of Geography Bristol University, Ash Amin, Prof of Geography Durham. Cities: Reimagining the Urban. Polity Press 2002. P 148-149) </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"One distinguished tradition ...public policy outcomes. "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Public space is paramount in engaging subaltern voices, and disengaging from the politics of fear. Only through a radical urban democracy can there be a transition to a new politic of openness. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Thrift and Amin 2 (Nigel Thrift Prof Of Geography Bristol University, Ash Amin, Prof of Geography Durham. Cities: Reimagining the Urban. Polity Press 2002. P 148-149) </span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"Democracy requires the democratization ...a 'unity of the self: "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Radical democracy is key to checking the politics of disposability which exist in current policies. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">GIROUX 06, Henry Waterbury Chair of Secondary education at Pennsylvania State University. September 2006 Katrina and the Politics of Disposability, http://www.inthesetimes.com/article/2822/</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"The dominant media has ...the face of death. "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Our right to the city creates a space of openness and incluision. The 1ac serves as a starting point for the creation of urban democracy</span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Mark Purcell 2002 Department of Geography, University of Washington, Excavating Lefebvre: The right to the city and its urban politics of the inhabitant 2002 GeoJournal 58: 99–108, 2002. © 2003 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"So the agenda that inhabitants ...greater urban democracy "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">Finally cities are the key cites of contestation.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Campbell, Graham, Monk 07 ([[http://muse.jhu.edu.ez-proxy.brooklyn.cuny.edu:2048/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2campbell.html#top|David Campbell]] is Professor of Cultural and Political Geography, Durham University ([[mailto:david.campbell@durham.ac.uk|david.campbell@durham.ac.uk]]); Stephen Graham is Professor of Human Geography, Durham University ([[mailto:s.d.n.graham@durham.ac.uk|s.d.n.graham@durham.ac.uk]]); and Daniel Bertrand Monk is George R. and Myra T. Cooley Professor of Peace & Conflict Studies, Colgate University ([[mailto:dmonk@mail.colgate.edu|dmonk@mail.colgate.edu]]). Introduction to Urbicide: The Killing of Cities? Accessed on project Muse)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"2007 marks a milestone ...least-developed countries."</span>


**Contention Two: Friends don’t let friends be utilitarian**

**<span style="font-size: 80%;">1. Utilitarianism is deployed by political strategists to justify and create wars. War is not a rational pursuit of policy goals. The rational act is to end the wars we’re in now, not maintain them</span>**
<span style="font-size: 80%;">Anthony Burke, Senior Lecturer at School of Politics & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales, 2005 (“Iraq: Strategy’s Burnt Offering,” Global Change, Peace & Security, Volume 17, Number 2, June 2005, P. 191 — 213//DN)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"Just over a year before ...subject of this essay "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">2. The value of ‘the public interest’ has been both theoretically and empirically denied in the 20th century. It completely ignores the actual effects of public policy and is used simply as a scapegoat when a particular policy is unpopular.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 70%;">Heather Campbell and Robert Marshall in ’02 (professors of public policy and planning at the University of Sheffield, 2002, utilitarianism’s Bad Breath: A re-Evaluation of the public interest justification)</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"The legitimization of planning ...in public policymaking. "</span>


**<span style="font-size: 80%;">3. 9/11 signifies a break from the realist approach to politics. There needs to be a radical re-thinking of how we approach international affaires </span>**
<span style="font-size: 60%;">Roland Bleiker (is Professor of International Relations at the University of Queensland, Brisbane. He is a former Swiss diplomat., Aestheticising terrorism: alternative approaches to 11 September). 2003</span>

<span style="font-size: 70%;">"Such a critical engagement ...even more stunning. "</span>




=Negative= 

Specific Rounds

GDS
RD 2- Newark Science Drones
T-Combat
The PIC
Securty

RD 4- Bro Rice
T- Combat 
Security

RD 6- Mercer Island
T- 
Schmitt
The Pic