=Neg - Alta rd 4 - (against East RR's vulnerability aff)= 

T - BASES, NOT TROOPS

layne 10
mil presence means bases


lutz 9
bases are part of us mil presence


aff just rm troops, not bases


vi
1. ground. Generic das.


2. neg research overburden



FEAR OF DEATH / NECROPOLITICS / MBEMBE

aff advs use fear of death
they say they prevence systemic vi and global illness and vi


power to stop that creates death



fear consummates power. Necropolitical. Global colonial state. 
mbembe 3


alt: rej death and aff
image aff without plan or its discourse or fear
earl 2
-can't access truth of daeth
-simulacrum of death


death in tix creates the other. Violentes personal security. Imagines sovereignty.
mbembe 3
capacity to kill in odrer to live


LOVE OF WAR / HILLMAN
legislating antiwar creates gun as god
hillman 4



aff sees them as heroes.
infatuation with war is dangerous
makes ! Ineviatble
hillman 4


aff failure to comprehend humanity love for war makes threat con inevitable
existential gap from loss of the enemy creates a hole in our existence
hillman 4
fantasy of enemy has no limit


go to war for war's sake
don't go to war for peace
else, war inevitable
hillman 4
-war is horrible


war destroys health, domestic vi, enviro, hr, social injustice…
levi and strauss 7


describing war as one shot distracts from real cause of violence, makes war inevit.
hillman 4
-psychological numbing is the effect of peace


FRAMEWORK:
critical interp of the 1ac? Maybe other stuff


fairness
aff can do whatever, so recip


checks offensive racist sexist philosophies


topic specific
nature of warfare
critical education


realistic roleplay and ed
we are intellectuals


fuko 80
criticism matters. It's key to ed and reform.


voters
more realistic roleplay, so education. So vote.
fairness. Recip.
if we win on k fw, the impacts of the k come first.

MILITARY MODERNIZATION DA
defense spending now
withdrawl shifts
nyt 9
lobbyests

LASERS IN SPACE
mil contractors will demand airborne lasers
fox news 10


abl ensures air arms race
x
-as revolutionary as nukes, thus others will pursue



space weapons clreate first strike incentive
rob 99


cross levi and sidel 7



LASERS ON ROBOTS
contractors are advocating future contract systems 
x


fcs > etndless robot wars
campbell 9
us military si biggest spender in robot wars
-terminator. 
-autonomous robots
-taking control of nukes