[[toc]]
Any questions on cites e-mail me: thecback [at] gmail [dot] com
==Critical Bagram (Grapevine)== 
**Haven't read this one since and don't plan on it.**
**CONTENTION ONE: THE DARK CHAMBER**
**THE REGIME OF TORTURE IMPLEMENTED IN THE NAME OF THE WAR ON TERROR HAS NOT ENDED WITH THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION—AS GUANTANAMO IS BEING CLOSED, NEW TORTURE CHAMBERS SUCH AS THE SECRET PRISON AT BAGRAM AIRBASE IN AFGHANISTAN ARE BEING CREATED OUTSIDE ALL REGIMES OF LEGALITY**
**GEBAUER ET AL, JOURNALIST AT DER SPIEFEL, 2009**
[MATTHIAS, JOHN, BRITTA, “PRISONER ABUSE CONTINUES AT BAGRAM PRISON IN AFGHANISTAN,” 9/21, HTTP://WWW.SPIEGEL.DE/INTERNATIONAL/WORLD/0,1518,650242,00.HTML]//
//Bagram is "the forgotten second Guantanamo, ... , without knowing why.//


//**AND, TORTURE IS THE CRUCIAL INTERNAL LINK BETWEEN THE SLIDE FROM A BENIGN BIOPOLITICS OF LIFE TO NECROPOLITICAL EXTERMINATION OF DANGEROUS POPULATIONS—TORTURE IS WHERE BIOPOLITICS DRAWS THE LINE BETWEEN WHO MUST BE MADE TO LIVE AND WHO CAN BE LEFT TO DIE**//
//**MORTON, SENIOR LECTURER IN ANGLOPHONE LITERATURES, UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHAMPTON, 2008**//
//[STEPHEN, “TORTURE, TERRORISM SND COLONIAL SOVEREIGNTY,” FOUCAULT IN AN AGE OF TERROR: ESSAYS ON BIOPOLITICS AND THE DEFENCE OF SOCIETY, EDS. STEPHEN MORTON AND STEPHEN BYGRAVE, P. 192-194]//
//III It is precisely ... and necropolitical control.//


//**ULTIMATELY, THIS SLIDE INTO THE DARK SIDE OF BIOPOLITICS MAKES POSSIBLE THE WORST FORMS OF GLOBAL VIOLENCE—TOTAL WARFARE, GENOCIDE, AND NUCLEAR ANNIHILATION**//
//**MARKS, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR IN FRENCH, UNIVERSITY OF NOTTINGHAM, 2008**//
//[JOHN, “MICHEL FOUCAULT: BIOPOLITICS AND BIOLOGY,” FOUCAULT IN AN AGE OF TERROR: ESSAYS ON BIOPOLITICS AND THE DEFENCE OF SOCIETY, EDS. STEPHEN MORTON AND STEPHEN BYGRAVE, P. 97-98]//
//Although biopower in this sense ... of the entire German population//

//**THUS, WE DEMAND THAT:**//
//**THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT CLOSE ALL SECRET DETENTION CENTERS IN AFGHANISTAN AND REMOVE THEIR ASSIGNED PERSONNEL FROM THE COUNTRY**//

//**TORTURE MUST BE OPPOSED ABSOLUTELY—ETHICS REQUIRES THE REJECTION OF ANY COMPROMISE BETWEEN TORTURE AND THE LAW**//
//**ZIZEK, SENIOR RESEARCHER AT THE INSTITUTE OF SOCIAL STUDIES, LJUBLJANA, 2002**//
//[SLAVOJ, WELCOME TO THE DESERT OF THE REAL!, P. 102-106]//
//If, then, against these ... need to cover administrative measures with the legal big Other.//


//**OUR DEMAND AGAINST BAGRAM AND OTHER SECRET PRISONS IS NECESSARY TO CHALLENGE THE LOGIC OF EXCEPTION GOVERNING BLACK SITES WHERE PRISONERS ARE DISAPPEARED AND TORTURED**//
//**KEENAN, INTERIM DEAN AND PROFESSOR OF LAW AT SUFFOLK UNIVERSITY, 2009**//
//[BERNARD, “SECRET PRISONS AND SOVEREIGNTY,” THE GUARDIAN, AUGUST 22, HTTP://WWW.GUARDIAN.CO.UK/COMMENTISFREE/LIBERTYCENTRAL/2009/AUG/22/SECRET-PRISONS-BAGRAM-SOVEREIGNTY]
Last week, the American Civil Liberties Union ... human rights and equality must struggle.

**FINALLY, THIS DEMAND AGAINST TORTURE INTERRUPTS THE ABILITY OF THE STATE TO REPRODUCE VIOLENCE ON A GLOBAL SCALE—OUR ACT IS A NECESSARY STARTING POINT FOR ANY BROADER POLITICS OF PROGRESSIVE CHANGE**
**BUTLER, PROFESSOR OF RHETORIC AT U.C.-BERKELEY 2009**
[JUDITH, “FRAMES OF WAR”, PUBLISHED 2009, PG. PG.23-29]
Although precarious life is ... power freed from the constraints of all law.

**I may have forgotten a solvency card, if I did it just says pretty much the same thing as the Kennan card.**

==**Primary Aff Policy Bagram (Broken Arrow)**== 
**Same as[[2010-2011 — Owasso High School (OK) — Austin Landes & Maegan Dilks| Owasso LD]]**

==Enjoyment/Anxiety (UT Austin Round 3)== 
**We've read this once.**
**[Stupid funny performance]**

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Despite not being a victim of the WTC attacks, many Third World and European countries offered their support in an attempt to be looked upon favorably by the West's global capitalism. The West uses this to justify their Orientalist mission abroad while continuing their disdain for the rest of the world. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Salecl 2004** [Renata, senior researcher in criminology, University of Ljubljana, “On Anxiety”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">If at the time .. </span>**__drivers of the train—global capital.__** </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The USFG's anxiety towards external threats will inevitably shift to the inside. The government uses this connection to coerce public support for their policies. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Salecl 2004** [Renata, senior researcher in criminology, University of Ljubljana, “On Anxiety”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In the aftermath of the ... <span style="font-size: 6pt;">the inside and the outside.</span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The root of our anxiety goes even deeper. We are constantly threatened with some catastrophe or another. Our irrational fear of the terrorist is what justifies outrageous things like full body scanners at airports. It goes even deeper- things like decaffinated coffee, beer without alcohol, even weird things like cyber sex are all causes of our anxiety- we fear the negative consequences so we take all the enjoyable things out of life. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Zizek 2003**, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Slavoj, Prof of Sociology @ Inst. For Sociology Ljjbljana Univ, __The Puppet and the Dwarf__, 94-99) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Insofar as “death” and “life” ... <span style="font-size: 6pt;">__Life to some higher Goal is__. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Therefore we affirm that the United States federal government should substantially reduce its military or police presence in the topically designated countries, not as a normative statement of policy, but as a way of confronting the anxiety caused by traditional forms of IR.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Or</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Thus the plan- the United States federal government should substantially reduce its military or police presence in the topically designated countries. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Ultimately, our hatred towards the Other is what causes us to hate our enjoyment in the first place. Our withdrawal of troops from overseas and our performance at the top of the 1AC serves as an affirmation of our enjoyment. We have to enjoy our existence instead of constantly creating irrational threats. That is the only way to maximize our life. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Zizek 93** (Slavoj Zizek, Duke University Press Durham 1993 “Tarrying with the negative” . <span style="color: black;">Pg. 205) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">What sets in motion ...</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> //own excess of enjoyment//.</span>__**</span>

==Hillman Aff (Harvard Semi-Finals)== 
Noez! Not War! 
Scenario 1: Russia 
Russia is gearing toward expansionist policies in the status quo – but US presence globally prevents action 
Bugajski 10 
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Janusz, holder of the Lavrentis Lavrentiadis Chair and director of the New European Democracies program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Russia’s Pragmatic Reimperialization” CRIA Vol. 4(1)) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Russia’s leaders believe </span><span style="color: black;">…</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">the Middle East peace process.</span><span style="color: black;"> </span>

US deployment in Afghanistan checks aggressive Russian expansion  
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Konurov 9</span>  
<span style="color: black;">(Andrei, Russian Analyst for Strategic Culture Foundation, http://en.fondsk.ru/article.php?id=2439, AD: 7/3/10)  </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The US has</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">… over the entire territory of Afghanistan. </span><span style="color: black;"> </span>

Russian expansionism escalates to nuclear exchange  
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Knight 8</span>  
<span style="color: black;">(Alex, Master's Degree in PoliSci, http://endofcapitalism.com/2008/08/26/imperialism%E2%80%99s-chess-board-war-in-the-caucuses-and-the-fall-of-pax-americana/, AD: 7/4/10) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">U.S. foreign </span><span style="color: black;">… risk provoking one</span>__<span style="color: black;">. </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Scenario 2: China </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">US military presence and resolve in East Asia are perceived as strong now </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">McDevitt 2k10</span>  
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Director for CNA-Strategic Studies & Rear admiral, 3/15, “The 2010 QDR and Asia: Messages for the Region”, pg online @ http://csis.org/files/publication/pac1012.pdf //da:7/27) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">US</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">friends and </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">allies</span><span style="color: black;">… in the region are misguided. </span>__
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
U.S. presence in Asia key to deter China 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Zissis 2k6</span> 
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Carin, 12/5. “Modernizing the People’s Liberation Army of China.” CFR Backgrounder. http://www.cfr.org/publication/12174/modernizing_the_peoples_liberation_army_of_china.html //da:7/26) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">During the Cold War, the…</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">militarily with the United States.”</span><span style="color: black;">  </span>__
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The impact is war with China </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Hunkovic 2k9</span><span style="color: black;">  </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Lee J, American Military University “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf //da: 7/24) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">A war </span><span style="color: black;">… </span>__<span style="color: black;">in this study. </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
Thus the plan: 
The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, and Turkey. 

Observation 2: Oh Yes! Yes War! 

War is an inevitable part of human existence the status quo’s infatuation with war and its prevention is inherently dangerous and makes more war inevitable 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Hillman, ’04</span> 
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Post–Jungian Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 17-22) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Halt! Is war abnormal? </span><span style="color: black;">… </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> drives everything else off the front page.</span><span style="color: black;"> </span>

The status quo’s failure to comprehend humanities lust for war makes the process of threat construction inevitable – We’ll eventually imagine another enemy that needs to be confronted because the loss of the enemy creates an existential gap in our very existence. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Hillman, ’04</span> 
<span style="color: black;">(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Post–Jungian Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Penguin Press</span>//, Pg. 24-27 , [Abhik]) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The enemy … to the merely normal.</span><span style="color: black;"> </span>__

We must combat the status quo’s anti-war mindset by going to war for wars sake! Vote affirmative to embrace this sadistic love of war into our imagination anything absent confronting our sadistic love of war will fail – We must not go to war for peace but to understand the madness of its love – Anything less than the alternative ensures wars inevitable recur making extinction inevitable 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Hillman, ’04</span> 
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Penguin Press</span>//, Pg. 1-10) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">We can never prevent </span><span style="color: black;">… it cannot be understood. </span>__

==Neg Stuff== 

==K's we have read== 
===Hillman=== 
The Affirmative see themselves as heroes crusading against evil – Fighting the good fight – Their infatuation with war and its prevention is inherently dangerous and makes their impacts inevitable.
Hillman, ’04
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0pt;">(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Post–Jungian Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 17-22)</span>
__<span style="color: black;">Halt! Is <span style="background: yellow;">war</span> …</span>__<span style="color: black;">off the front page.</span>

The affirmative’s failure to comprehend humanities lust for war makes the process of threat construction inevitable – We’ll eventually imagine another enemy that needs to be confronted because the loss of the enemy creates an existential gap in our very existence.
Hillman, ’04
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0pt;">(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Post–Jungian Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the //Penguin Press//, Pg. 24-27)</span>
__<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">The enemy provides … to the merely normal</span>____<span style="color: black;">.</span>__

The alternative is to go to war for wars’ sake – Anything absent confronting our sadistic love of war will fail – We must not go to war for peace but to understand the madness of its love – Anything less than the alternative ensures wars inevitable recur making extinction inevitable
Hillman, ’04
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0pt;">(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the //Penguin Press//, Pg. 1-10)</span>
__<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">We can never prevent </span>____<span style="color: black;">… it cannot be understood.</span>__
===DnG=== 
We also have another version specific to desire, but we won't read that at districts.
<span class="cite">__SUB POINT A IS DEATH__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Their view of life is based on an egotistical interpretation of what it means to be human - we are nothing more than a particular arrangement of carbon and water, and the war they prevent is nothing more than a rearrangement of that matter. Two implications:**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**1. there is no impact to the 1AC - make them prove why human existence is somehow important**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**2. they establish hierarchies which lead to fascism - every example of human advancement has come at the expense of all other forms of life: we took life from trees and grass to build our home, we steal energy from the sun to know the world and we for some reason want to preserve human development so we can unlock the secrets of the universe. the impact Is an ongoing genocide of all life in the universe**.</span>
<span class="cite">Inevitably, this is the logic that allows the worst forms of capitalist domination to continue, extending the death hand of docile bare-life as far as possible. In the end, death Is not only inevitable, but the conditions created by capitalIsm makes death desirable.</span>
**Deleuze and Guattari 1972**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Anti-Oedipus, 330-39,.</span>
But it seems that things are becoming …<span class="underline"> question of regime.</span>
<span class="cite">Our alternative is to problematize the foundations of the 1AC.</span>

This is a process of making something that was formerly seen as true into a complex and uncertain mess of questions, making further action impossible because we have an ethico-political deadlock in the form of a problem. We open up the space to question why we allowed ourselves to become entrenched in fascist global capital and demand a more efficient tomorrow.
<span class="cite">Delouse and Guitar 1972</span>, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Anti-Oedipus, 366-8</span>
<span class="underline">The</span> fourth and <span class="underline">final thesis of ….</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the ruins of institutions<span class="underline">”</span></span>

===Heg K=== 
Can't find it but
**Plan's cirtisism of US heg dooms it**
**Hanson 03? (I think)**

**The impact is nuke war**
**Kagan**

**Alt is to affirm us heg**
**forgot the author**

==Neg rounds== 
====Grapevine==== 
**Rd 4: [SK Rape] Caddo Magnet TS**
**1NC**
Reform SOFA to allow the prosicution of our troops CP
Speaking for others K (CP works as the alt)
SK Re-Arm DA
Case
**2NC**
CP 
Speaking for others
**1NR**
DA
Case
**2NR**
CP
Speaking for others
Case [Mostly just solvency deficit for the CP]

**Rd 5: [PMCs] Highland Park KS**
**1NC**
T - PMCs =/= Its Military Presence
Mercenaires PIC
Hillman K
Case
**2NC**
Hillman k
Case
**1NR**
Mercenaries Pic
**2NR**
Hillman K

====**Charles Page**==== 
**Rd 4: [TNWs] Jenks**
**1NC**
T - Weapon System =/= Military presence
Consult NATO
Some other disad I can't think of
Deterrence
Case
**2NC**
T
Deterrence
Case
**1NR**
Consult NATO
**2NR**
T
NATO (The net benefit)
Deterrence
Case

**Finals: [COIN] Moore**
T - Substantial
T - Military Presence
Politics
CMR DA
Deterrence
Case
**2NC**
Politics
Deterrence
Case
**1NR**
CMR
T-Substantial
**2NR**
T-Substantial
Politics
Deterrence
Case

====UT Austin==== 
**Rd 2: [Drones] Caddo Magnet HT**
**1NC**
T - Presence
T - Substantial
Heg Good DA
Deterrence
Case
**2NC**
T - Presence
Deterrence
Case
**1NR**
Heg
**2NR**
Heg
Case

**Rd 3: [South Korea] St. Marks RR**
**1NC**
DnG
**2NC**
DnG
**1NR**
DnG
**2NR**
DnG

**Rd 6: [South Korea] Coppel JR**
**1NC**
DnG
**2NC**
DnG
**1NR**
DnG
**2NR**
DnG

====Jenks==== 
**Rd 2: [Critical TNWs] Booker T**
**1NC**
T - Weapons =/= Military
Consult NATO
Deterrence
Case
**2NC**
Deterrence
Case
**1NR**
T
**2NR**
Deterrence Case

**Rd 4: [South Korea Prostitution] Moore**
**1NC**
T - Eliminate =/= Remove
Revise SOFA
Deterrence
Speaking for others
Case
**2NC**
Deterrence
Case
**1NR**
T
CP
**2NR**
CP
Deterrence
Case

**Quarter Finals: [Turkey surveillance or something] Lincoln College Prep**
**1NC**
T - Must be bases
Deterrence
Turkey Econ DA
Case
**2NC**
Deterrence
Case
**1NR**
T
**2NR**
T
Deterrence
Case

**Semi Finals: [COIN] Moore**
**1NC**
T - Must be bases
Deterrence
Aircraft PIC
Case
**2NC**
Deterrence
Case
**1NR**
T
PIC
**2NR**
T
Deterrence
PIC
Case

**Finals: [Iraq Colonialism] Charles Page**
**1NC**
T - PMCs =/= Presence
Give ourselves to Britain CP
Heg K
Democratic Movements DA
Case
**2NC**
DA
Case
**1NR**
T
**2NR**
T
DA
Case

====Harvard==== 
**Rd 1: [Japan imperialism+Rape] Sequoyah GB**
**1NC**
PIC
Framework
Case

**Block**
Framework

**2NR**
Ptx
Case

**Rd 3: [South Korea] Lexington KT**
**1NC**
DnG

**Block**
DnG

**2NR**
Deterrence
Case

**Rd 3: [South Korea] Lexington WA**
**1NC**
DnG

**Block**
DnG

**2NR**
Heg
Case

**Octofinals [Critical TNWw] McDowell NP**
**1NC**
DnG

**Block**
DnG

**2NR**
Deterrence
Case

====﻿East Side Oklahoma Districts==== 
**Rd 1: [COIN] Bishop Kelley**
**1NC**
T - Bases
Aircraft PIC
Deterrence
Case

**2NC**
Case
T-Bases

**1NR**
Deterrence

**2NR**
T-Bases
Deterrence

**Rd 3: [SK Rape] Jenks Parth/Asqa**
**1NC**
PIC out of the state
Deterrence
Case D + Turns

**2NC**
Deterrence
Case

**1NR**
PIC

**2NR**
Deterrence
Case

**Rd 5: [TNWs] Jenks Masterson/Novice**
**1NC**
T - Presence
O-Spec
Deterrence
NFU CP
Case

**2NC**
T
O-Spec
Case

**1NR**
CP
Deterrence

**2NR**
O-Spec
Deterrence

====East Side Oklahoma Regionals==== 
**Rd 1: [PMCs] Jenks**
**1NC**
Courts CP
Ptx
Case 

**2NC**
DA
Case

**1NR**
CP

**2NR**
CP
DA

**Rd 3: [Japan] Jenks**
**1NC**
Futenma PIC (Just W/D futenma)
Japan ptx
Deterrence
Japan Earthquake DA
Guam Shift

**2NC**
Case
PIC
Deterrence
Japan Earthquake

**1NR**
Japan Politics

**2NR**
PIC
Japan Politcs