[[toc]]
[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Vivian Ha & Dustin Meyers-Levy|Main page]]
=Japan Aff= 
==1AC - Michigan== 

**Contention 1 is Inherency**

<span class="Author-Date">Futenma relocation to Henoko happening despite local protests</span>

<span class="Author-Date"> Jiji Press 9-24-10</span>
<span class="Author-Date"> (“Kan, Obama Agree to Strengthen Japan-U.S. Alliance”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.mcot.net/cfcustom/cache_page/106666.html]]</span>) </span>
__Kan told Obama that <span style="background-color: aqua;">the Japanese government… </span>…the Futenma relocation within the prefecture__.


**Contention 2** **is Warming**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Disputes over the existence of the Futenma base will implode the alliance and support for other more strategic bases </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Ennis</span>**, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist,**<span style="color: black;">6-8</span>****<span style="color: black;">-10</span>** (Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” Dispatch Japan,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html]]</span>) 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The exchanges of the last week can’t be… …renewed tensions between Washington and Tokyo.</span>



**The alliance is key to solve warming**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kent E. </span>**Calder**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Reischauer C<span style="color: black;">enter for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, 02/01/20</span></span>**<span style="color: black;">10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">“U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">JAPAN COOPERATION”, <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]]</span>>) </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Active U.S.</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 11pt;">‐</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Japan cooperation on energy and environmental issues… …</span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">configuration of embedded political interests in both countries.</span>__</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date">Warming causes extinction – only stronger American-Japanese efforts can solve and now is key </span>
**Cummins and Allen 10** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6]]</span>) 

__<span style="color: black;">From a</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">n ethical, legal, and </span>__<span style="color: black;">survival perspective… …<span style="background-color: aqua;">die of</span> thirst, cold, heat, <span style="background-color: aqua;">disease, war, and starvation</span>. </span>__

**<span style="color: black;">Warming causes colossal wildfires</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Ecobridge 6 </span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Ecobridge, 10-5-06, “Evidence of Global Warming” </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: blue; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ecobridge.org/content/g_dgr.htm]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Wildfires Increasing </span>__<span style="color: black;">The forests of Canada, Alaska… …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">the leaves or needles - and it stays there." </span>

**<span style="color: black;">And wildfires create massive air pollution </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">California Department of Public Health 8 </span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Wildfire Smoke. Revised July 2008. </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: #00009a; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.arb.ca.gov/smp/progdev/pubeduc/wfgv8.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Smoke is a complex mixture of carbon dioxide… …</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">represent a greater health concern than larger particles.</span>__



**Air pollution causes extinction**
**Driesen 03** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(David, Associate Professor, Syracuse University College of Law. J.D. Yale Law School, 1989, Fall/Spring, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, p. 26-8) </span>

**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Air pollution can make life unsustainable by harming… </span>__****__…can live a healthy and productive life.__**


**And deforestation causes extinction**
**Sodhi in 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Navjot S., Staff Writer for Straits Times (Singapore), </span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT,serif; font-size: 8pt;">A clear and present danger to the planet; take heed: man’s unsustainable exploitation of nature is precipitating a global extinction crisis</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Review - Tech & Science, 12/8/07, lexis.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WE HUMANS have badly mauled the planet… …</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">nature is detrimental both to biodiversity and humans.</span>__




**<span style="color: black;">And put away your alt causes - climate change outweighs and amplifies other environmental influences – all of your defense is non-unique</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Hansen in 8 </span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Hansen, head of NASA Goddard Institute and prof. of Environmental Sciences, Columbia University, 2008 (James E. Hanson. Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book State of the Wild. “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April. </span><span style="color: #00009a; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 8pt;">http:</span>
<span style="color: #00009a; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>
__<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">Climate change is emerging while the wild… </span>____<span style="color: black;">…alternative energy scenario to stabilize the climate</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is Biodiversity </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Base relocation to Henoko Bay will devastate a key ecosystem </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McCormack, 9-13</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-10</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gavan, coordinator of The Asia-Pacific Journal, an emeritus professor of Australian National University, and author of previous studies in this journal of the US-Japan relationship and Okinawa, “The US-Japan ‘Alliance’, Okinawa and Three Looming Elections,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Gavan-McCormack/3407]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Setting aside the diplomatic, political, and military considerations</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …after the survey and thus formed no part of it. </span>

**Henoko Bay is key to biodiversity – specifically sea turtles**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CBD 9</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Center for Biological Diversity, advocate group for biodiversity, COP10, “Dugongs vs. the Military”, Dec. 3 (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://cop10.org/japanspecific/76-marine/106-henokodugongs]]</span>) 6.24.10]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The island of</span> <span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Okinawa has been called… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">celebrating its importance in 2010 and years to come.</span>


<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sea turtles are a keystone species </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"> C</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8.5pt;">enter for </span><span class="Author-Date">E</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8.5pt;">cological </span><span class="Author-Date">L</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8.5pt;">iving and </span><span class="Author-Date">L</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8.5pt;">earning, 200</span><span class="Author-Date">8, <span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">“Sea turtles and sustainability through community”</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://cellcentralamerica.blogspot.com/2008/04/sea-turtles-and-sustainability-through.html]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Sea turtles are keystone species (not only</span>____…__</span><span style="color: #333333;"> …more recently, as a major ecotourism attraction.</span></span>



**Independently, any loss of keystone species leads to extinction**
**Young,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD coastal marine ecology, </span>**10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]</span>] </span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Different species</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> within ecosystems </span>__fill particular roles…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>__our protection of biodiversity maintains this service.__


**Plan: The United States Department of Defense should close and withdraw all personnel from the Futenma Air Base.**

**Contention 4 is Pre-empts:**

**FIRST, no war**

**Subpoint A is deterrence**

Nuclear deterrence prevents great power wars
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">G John </span><span class="cite">Ikenberry</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University “The Rise of China and the Future of the West” Foreign Affairs January/February 20</span><span class="cite">08 </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; font-size: 10pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20080101faessay87102/g-john-ikenberry/the-rise-of-china-and-the-future-of-the-west.html]]</span> </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__The most important benefit of these features today… …<span style="background-color: aqua;">has been abolished as a historical process</span>.__ </span></span>



**Subpoint B is interdependence**

**Economic interdependence and nuclear deterrence checks war**
**Feittweis 6** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Christopher J.(National Security Decision Making Department) US Naval War College International Studies Review 8, 677–697 4.</span>
<span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">However, one need not be convinced about… …</span></span><span class="UnderlineChar">__why anyone should believe that it could not__</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>


**And even if interdependence collapse, there won’t be a war**
Thomas <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Barnett</span></span>, 25 August 200<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">9</span></span>, contributing editor/online columnist for Esquire magazine. His latest book is "Great Powers: America and the World After Bush", “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis” - Aprodex, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aprodex.com/the-new-rules--security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis-398-bl.aspx]]</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">When the global financial crisis struck</span>____…__</span> …aid and investments in Afghanistan and Iraq.)</span>




**Subpoint C is costs**

No war – no benefits, rising costs and democracies
Mandelbaum, Professor of American Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, 1999
Michael, Christian A. Herter Professor of American Foreign Policy, The Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University; Director, Project on East-West Relations, Council on Foreign Relations “Is Major War Obsolete?”

Why is this so? Most simply, __<span style="background-color: aqua;">the costs have… </span>…__standing guard against an attack on a king.”

**No risk of major war – declining numbers, military spending, spread of democracy, enlightenment, and economics**
**Easterbrook,**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> senior fellow at The New Republic, </span>**05**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> [Greg, “EXPLAINING 15 YEARS OF DIMINISHING VIOLENCE — The End of War?”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://democraticpeace.wordpress.com/2009/05/31/easterbrook-end-of-war/]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Daily explosions in Iraq, massacres in Sudan… …</span>__pruning hooks__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>__The world ought to take notice.__

**SECOND, No nuclear extinction**

**Evidence doesn’t support nuclear winter**
**Seitz 2006** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">former associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University’s Center for International Affairs (Russell, “The' Nuclear Winter ' Meltdown Photoshopping the Apocalypse”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://adamant.typepad.com/seitz/2006/12/preherein_honor.html]]</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">All that remains of Sagan's Big Chill are curves… …so much smoke so far aloft for so long? </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">All evidence goes aff – nuclear war is survivable </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">J.R. **__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Nyquist</span>__**, renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations, 5/20/**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">99</span>__**, “Is nuclear war survivable?”,<span class="reduce2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19722|http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/ar...TICLE_ID=19722]]</span></span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">I patiently reply to these correspondents that </span><span class="underline2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9pt;">nuclear war …</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;"> …delayed fallout; and 2) short-term fallout. </span></span>

==1AC - Dowling== 
New inherency, warming, plan text, and one more pre-empt. We took out the bio-d advantage.


**Contention 1 is Inherency, also you don’t have unique disads**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">Nakaima’s election means there __will__ be a relocation of the Futenma base to somewhere in Japan – however, where, when, and other issues will plague the alliance and postpone the shift </span></span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">**Yoshimura and Funatsuki 11/30** (Ryuhei and Kakuchi, writers for the Daily Yomiuri, “Nakaima win brings Futenma solution no closer”, </span>[[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/national/T101129005049.htm]], dml) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NAHA--Okinawa Gov. Hirokazu </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Nakaima's reelection</span>____…__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>__three years from now__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," the official said. </span>


**Contention 2** **is The Alliance**

<span class="Underline">**The alliance is at a cross-road – regional instability is bringing the US and Japan closer together but the Futenma base issue will prevent cooperation and destroy the alliance** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Harris 11/23** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Tobias, analyst of Japanese politics and Japan foreign policy, “How will regional uncertainty affect the U.S.-Japan Alliance?”, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[[http://asiasecurity.macfound.org/blog/entry/111how_will_regional_uncertainty_affect_the_u.s.-japan_alliance/|__http://asiasecurity.macfound.org/blog/entry/111how_will_regional_uncertainty_affect_the_u.s.-japan_alliance/__]], dml)</span>


__The exchange of fire between the North… …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">different direction</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">than it was already going. </span>


**The US-Japan alliance solves climate change – we’ll isolate a few warrants:**
**a) Innovation**
**Calder 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kent E.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of Reischauer C<span style="color: black;">enter for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">‐</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">JAPAN COOPERATION”) </span>

<span class="DebateHighlighted">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Active U.S.</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">-</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Japan <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">cooperation on energy and</span>…</span>__</span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> …configuration of embedded political interests in both countries. </span>__</span>

**b) Tech leadership**
**Denmark and Kliman 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Abraham is a fellow at CNAS and Dr Daniel is a visiting fellow at CNAS, “Cornerstone: A Future Agenda for the US-Japan Alliance, Center for a New American Security, June 2010, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lastly, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the alliance can</span>__ __complement existing… …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> an important</span> future <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">area for alliance cooperation</span>.__


**c) East Asian bandwagoning**
**Patel 7** <span style="font-size: 80%;">(Nirav, Bacevich fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,” [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation]] NOTE: If you have problems accessing the full text of this article just email me)</span>


<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Historically, </span>__U.S.-Japan <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">relations have benefited from</span>…__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> …</span>__undermine international peace, stability and security.__



**Warming causes extinction – only stronger American-Japanese efforts can solve and now is key**
**Cummins and Allen 10** <span style="color: black; font-size: 7.5pt;">(Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14)</span>

__<span style="color: black;">From a</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">n ethical, legal, and </span>__<span style="color: black;">survival perspective… …cold, heat, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">disease, war, and starvation</span>.</span>__


**Warming is real – this card takes into account every single one of your lies**
**Romm 10** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Joe, editor of Climate Progress, Senior Fellow at the American Progress, former Acting Assistant Secretary of Energy for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, praised by lots of important people. You’re not gonna find anything wrong with this card., “Disputing the “consensus” on global warming,” [[http://climateprogress.org/2010/06/16/scientific-consensus-on-global-warming-climate-science/]], dml)</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">The more I write about global warming… …An introduction to global warming impacts: Hell and High Water“).</span>


**<span style="color: black;">And, we don’t need to win rapid warming – even a slight temperature change warms the oceans and causes catastrophic methane burps </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Atcheson 4 </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">John, has held a variety of government positions, “Ticking Time Bomb,” </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/views04/1215-24.htm]])</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">There are</span>____<span style="color: black;"> enormous quantities of naturally occurring… …came close to wiping out all life on Earth.</span>__


**<span style="color: black;">That’s the biggest impact in the round – 10,000 times more powerful than nuclear weapons and the timeframe is weeks </span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Ryskin 3 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">(Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, Illinois, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions” Geology 31(9): 741-744, dml)</span></span>**


__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The consequences</span><span style="color: black;"> of a methane-driven oceanic eruption… …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">stockpile of nuclear weapons</span>,</span>__ <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">implicated in the nuclear winter scenario (Turco et al., 1991).</span></span>


**<span style="color: black;">And climate change outweighs and amplifies other environmental influences – all of your defense is non-unique</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Hansen 8 </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">James E. Hanson. Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book State of the Wild. “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April. </span><span style="color: #00009a; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>


__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Climate change is emerging while the wild… </span>____<span style="color: black;">…alternative energy scenario to stabilize the climate</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>





**Plan: The Department of Defense should withdraw its military presence from the Futenma Air Base.**



**Added to pre-empts:**

**Even the biggest nuclear war would only kill 10% of the population**
**Martin 82** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dr Brian Martin is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, Journal of Peace Research, No 4, [[http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82jpr.html]])</span>


**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To summarise the above points, </span>__a major… …kill everyone on earth, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">is highly misleading</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[14]</span>**


==1AC - Blake== 

I debated with Erin Sielaff and she had extra time in the 1AC, so we added framework:


**Our interpretation is that the role of the ballot is to simulate the policy outcome of the plan vs the status quo or a competitive policy option. Engaging the state and taking an active pragmatic approach is the only way to forge political possibilities in society, this is also a reason the alt would fail because they try to philosophize political relevance. This is best:**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">A) Fairness—there are an infinite number of frameworks the aff can’t predict which rigs the game for the negative </span>**</span>
**Mearshimer 95**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Winter 94/95) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nevertheless, critical theorists readily acknowledge that… …and world politics will be more peaceful. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">B) Policy implications are necessary to test theory – a legitimate alternative must describe the consequences of implementing specific change because rhetorical criticism can make the world worse – the impact is education and it turns the K </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Feaver 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 178) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">At the same time, virtually</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">all good</span>… …<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">in the proliferation field already does so. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">C) Real World – our authors are experts in their fields and have done specific research, theirs have no place discussing international relations – the kritik should be ignored because they can’t explain how the K has any real-world effects </span>**</span>
**Jarvis 2K** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">Darryl, Associate prof of IR @ Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, //International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism: Defending the Discipline// pg 198, dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">I am, of course, being flippant. Yet</span>__…__ __…____begin anew our theoretical__ __and__ __disciplinary enterprise?__

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">D) War – ignore their generic evidence – detailed military education prevents extinction</span>** </span>
**Hanson 7** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Victor Davis Hanson, Professor of Classics at CSU Fullerton, “Why Study War?” City Journal, Summer) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It’s no surprise that </span>__civilian <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Americans tend… …the past, have a moral obligation to stop them</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">E) Fairness is a voting issue because it’s the foundation of debate and improves the quality of argument</span> – framework must be addressed in the 1NC, sandbagging unfairly skews 2AC strategy and 1AR time allocation and is an independent voting issue** </span>


==1AC - Sections== 

Added this card:


**And, public opinion matters – the Futenma issue is toxic to the alliance – allowing it to continue will destroy cooperation**
**Nessen 1/4/11** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Stephen, <span style="color: black;">Recipient of the The Japan Foundation Center for Global Partnership Journalism Fellowship. Reporter and producer at New York Public Radio, WNYC.org., “Okinawa US Marine Base Angers Residents and Governor,” </span>[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/stephen-nessen/okinawa-us-marine-base-an_b_804460.html]], dml) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">In late November, on a deserted stretch… …often competitive companies from mainland Japan. </span>



==**T**== 

===**Substantial**=== 



<span style="color: black;">We meet – Futenma hosts more than half the US presence in Japan</span>
<span style="color: black;">Sedik, ’10</span> **<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">(Peter Sedik, The Epoch Times, 26 April 2010, “Thousands in Okinawa Protest Against US Base,” <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/34175/]]</span>, shoutout to Cam Collela)</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Under a 2006 pact between Tokyo and Washington… …Japan’s defeat in the World War II</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>**


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Substantially means large in size or importance </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Cambridge Dictionary of American English 2000</span></span></span>**
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> <span class="CardsChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">“__substantial__</span>/adj __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">large in size, value or importance</span>__. He took a substantial amount of money. They do a substantial portion of their business by phone </span></span>**</span>

<span style="color: black;">Futenma is the most important issue affecting the alliance and is also symbolic of the base issues in general </span>
<span style="color: black;">Brooks 9-24</span>**<span style="color: black;">-10 (William, adjunct professor at SAIS and used to monitor Japan-US relations at the US Embassy in Tokyo, Japan Times, </span>[[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nb20100924d1.html]])**

**<span style="color: black;">"__Futenma is symbolic of the Okinawa base issues,,, …__closing the fault that has opened up," he said </span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">
**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> Their definition of substantial is arbitrary – there’s no consistency in US Code. </span>**</span>

**Jeffrey M. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Colon</span></span>, Associate Professor of Law, Fordham University School of Law, Winter <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>, San Diego Law Review, 34 San Diego L. Rev. 1, Lexis Academic**

<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">n138. I.R.C. 877(e). </span><span class="underline0">Neither the statute nor the legislative… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">("substantial diminution" of risk of loss). </span></span>**</span>

==**Disads**== 



===**<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Impact Calc</span>**=== 
Timeframe- now is key to solve- guaranteed extinction in 70 months

Guardian Weekly, 8 **(Andrew Simms, “Guardian Weekly: Just 100 months left to save Earth: Andrew Simms on a New Green Deal that could forestall the climate change tipping point”, 8/15, L/N)**

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">In just 100 months' time, if we are lucky</span>… …__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">and the effect of those environmental feedbacks.</span>**


Turns the DA- an unstable climate will add fuel to conflicts- it’s a threat multiplier for instability
The New American, ‘7 **(11/7 http://www.thenewamerican.com/node/6153)**

**__Climate change acts as a threat multiplier for instability…__ …<span style="font-size: 5pt;">further disaster and reconstitute a stable environment.</span>**


==**Warming/Alliance**== 

===**AT: Cooling Now**=== 


Absent action, ten degree warming is inevitable 
**George** Pataki et al**, Council on Foreign Relations, June 200**8**, Confronting Climate Change: A Strategy For U.S. Foreign Policy, [[http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Climate_ChangeTF.pdf]]**

**At the onset of the industrial revolution… …**__increases of roughly ten degrees Fahrenheit.6__



===**AT: Oceans Cooling**=== 


**Oceans fail**
<span style="color: black;">Fred Pearce, Environment and Development Editor for New Scientist Magazine, 2007</span>**<span style="color: black;">, With Speed and Violence: why scientists fear tipping points in climate change, p. 136 (HARVEN4472) </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">The second feedback that converted a planetary… …__have had a huge effect on the atmosphere.__</span>**

==**<span style="color: black;">Pre-empts</span>**== 
===AT: Schell=== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**Schell is wrong – nuclear war won’t lead to extinction** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Brian **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Martin</span>__**, professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, March 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">83</span>__**, “The fate of extinction arguments”, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/83fea.html</span>


<span style="font-size: 5pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Jonathan Schell's book The Fate of the Earth… …nuclear war but dismiss his political conclusions. </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">**Schell is wrong – nuclear war won’t cause ozone related extinction** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Brian **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Martin</span>__**, professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, March 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">83</span>__**, “The fate of extinction arguments”, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/83fea.html</span>


<span style="font-size: 5pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">At the end of the first of the three essays… …dangers from ultraviolet light listed by Schell. </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Schell’s arguments aren’t supported by the evidence – he misappropriates it </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">Brian **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Martin</span>__**, professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, May 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">84</span>__**, “Extinction politics”, SANA Update, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Opponents of war</span></span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">, including scientists, </span><span class="underline2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">have…</span></span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> …thereby greatly extending reserves of food. </span></span>






==**Add-Ons**== 

===**Japan Alliance - Disease**=== 



US-Japan efforts empirically help stop disease spread 
Wakabayashi 8 **<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Hideki, visiting fellow with CSIS, former House member of the DPJ, “The US-Japan Alliance: A New Framework for Enhanced Global Security,” CSIS, February 2008, dml)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Under the Common Agenda,</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the United States</span>… …__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">funding sources in areas other than health. </span>**

**Disease causes extinction**
**New Scientist 8 New Scientist, major journal and winner of the Royal Statistical Society 2008 Award for Statistical Excellence in Journalism, 2008 (April 5, 2008, "Will a pandemic bring down civilisation?" [[http://www.newscientist.com/channel/being-human/mg19826501.400-will-a-pandemic-bring-down-civilisation.html]])**

**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Will a pandemic bring down civilization… …</span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar">far from the only viral threat we face</span>.**


==**Counterplans**== 

===Consult Japan=== 


**4. Perm – do the counterplan – consultation over basing is normal means – we’ll insert evidence from the SOFA into the debate**
**1960 Treaty of Mutual Cooperation between Japan and the United States** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.niraikanai.wwma.net/pages/archive/sofa.html]] </span>
**__ARTICLE II__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">1. (a) The United States is granted, under Article VI of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security, the use of facilities and areas in Japan. Agreements as to specific facilities and areas shall be con-cluded by the two Governments through the Joint Committee pro-vided for in Article XXV of this Agreement. "Facilities and areas" include existing furnishings, equipment and fixtures necessary to the operation of such facilities and areas. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(b) The facilities and areas of which the United States has the use at the time of expiration of the Administrative Agreement under Article III of the Security Treaty between the United States of America and Japan, shall be considered as facilities and areas agreed upon between the two Governments in accordance with subparagraph (a) above. </span>
__2. At the request of either Government, the Governments of the United States and Japan shall review such arrangements and may agree that such facilities and areas shall be returned to Japan or that additional facilities and areas may be provided.__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">3. The facilities and areas used by the United States armed forces shall be returned to Japan whenever they are no longer needed for purposes of this Agreement, and the United States agrees to keep the needs for facilities and areas under continual observation with a view toward such return. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">4. (a) When facilities and areas are temporarily not being used by the United States armed forces, the Government of Japan may make, or permit Japanese nationals to make, interim use of such facilities and areas provided that it is agreed between the two Governments through the Joint Committee that such use would not be harmful to the purposes for which the facilities and areas are normally used by the United States armed forces. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(b) With respect to facilities and areas which are to be used by States armed forces for limited periods of time, the Joint Committee shall specify in the agreements covering such facilities and areas the extent to which the provisions of this Agreement shall apply. </span>
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">… </span>//
**__ARTICLE XXV__**
__1. A Joint Committee shall be established as the means for consultation between the Government of the United States and the Government of Japan on all matters requiring mutual consultation regarding the implementation of this Agreement. In particular, the Joint Committee shall serve as the means for consultation in determining the facilities and areas in Japan which are required for the use of the United States in carrying out the purposes of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security.__
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">2. The Joint Committee shall be composed of a representative of the Government of the United States and a representative of the Government of Japan, each of whom shall have one or more deputies and a staff. The Joint Committee shall determine its own procedures, and arrange for such auxiliary organs and administrative services as may be required. The Joint Committee shall be so organized that it may meet immediately at any time at the request of the representative of either the Government of the United States or the Government of Japan. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">3. If the Joint Committee is unable to resolve any matter, it shall refer that matter to the respective Governments for further consideration through appropriate channels</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**9. Turn – CP kills the alliance:**
**a) Extend Yoshimura and Fuyatsuki – counterplan does what Japan wants which is relocation to somewhere in Japan – that’s Nakaima’s plan**
**b) The Japanese people will only be satisfied with unconditional termination of the base**
**Martin 10** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Alex, staff writer for Japan Times, “JCP agrees with U.S. on nukes, not bases – Shii,” [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100428a5.html]]) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">However, Shii said </span>__<span style="color: black;">the JCP stands firmly against other issues… …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">our government needs to realize that fact," he said. </span>

**10. Turn – delay:**
**a) Extend Yoshimura and Fuyatsuki – the relocation debate if left to Japan will wait until the Nago mayor’s election in 3 years to settle**
**b) Delay kills the alliance – only absolving Japan of responsibility for the base issue can solve it**
**Harris and Turner 8** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Tobias is a former assistant to a member of the DPJ and has a BA in Politics and History, Douglas is a former CFR fellow in Japan, “Unsustainable Inequities: Saving the US-Japan Alliance from Drift, [[http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/commentary/data/000060]])</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">Second, </span>__<span style="color: black;">it is politically difficult for the Japanese government… …realignment process will jeopardize the security relationship</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">. </span>



===**Alliance Advantage CP**=== 


And, only unconditional closing of the base will satisfy the Okinawans 
Martin 10 **<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Alex, staff writer for Japan Times, “JCP agrees with U.S. on nukes, not bases – Shii,” [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100428a5.html]]) </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">However, Shii said </span>__<span style="color: black;">the JCP stands… …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">needs to realize that fact," he said. </span>**

And, <span style="color: black;">Futenma is THE fault line in relations – relocation makes them worse, prevents us from focusing, emotions mean amplification, and spillover means removal can solve other issues</span>
<span style="color: black;">Japan Times, 9/24</span> **<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">(The Japan Times, 24 September 2010, “New vision of Japan-US ties needed at key turning point,” <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nb20100924d1.html]]</span>)</span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">Turning to the Japan-U.S. bilateral relationship… …</span><span style="background: yellow; color: black;">the fault that has opened up,"</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">he said. </span>**




==Kritiks== 
===2AC/1AR Framework Ext=== 


<span class="Underline">**And, their critique does not access the same education—detailed discussions of military operations are necessary, not just relationships between war and other issues** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kagan 6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Fred, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, “Why Military History Matters,” June, http://www.aei.org/outlook/24600) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">To the extent that universities offer… …of “war and society” will not suffice here<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.[5] </span></span>


===Security/Enviro-Security Links=== 


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**2.** **Enviro-security rhetoric creates a mindset shift that is awesome and solves the K** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Dyer 8** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Dr. H.C. Dyer, School of Politics & International Studies (POLIS) @ University of Leeds, “The Moral Significance of 'Energy Security' and 'Climate Security” Paper presented at WISC 2nd Global International Studies Conference, ‘What keeps us apart, what keeps us together? International Order, Justice, Values’ [[http://www.wiscnetwork.org/ljubljana2008/getpaper.php?id=60]]]</span> </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt;">There is already considerable concern and cooperative activity… …</span>__cope with the challenges of energy and climate security.__

**4. Saving the environment requires effective political engagement—environmental philosophers must abandon abstract theorizing in order to build the public.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">De-Shalit</span>**, **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">2000</span>**. Professor of Political Theory at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Associate Fellow at the Oxford Centre for Environment, Ethics, and Society, Mansfield College, Oxford University. “The Environment: Between Theory and Practice,” Avner p. 4-6, Questia. 

However, it would be wrong, if not dangerous… …the environment; __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">it should not replace political philosophy</span>__. 


**We also read framework if it's not in the 1AC, otherwise we read the extensions above**

===Fem=== 


**2. Perm – do both:** **<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Feminism can’t be only adversarial – it needs a positive standpoint to overcome the oppression of the status quo</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Robert O. __Keohane__, prof government @ Harvard and international affairs @ Princeton, 19__89__, p. 250, “International Relations Theory: Contributions of a Feminist Standpoint” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">I fear that __many <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">feminist theorists of international relations… …radical inequality, relativist resignation reinforces the status quo'</span>. 28__ </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 149.25pt;">**5. Their alt fails – critique alone fails to have material implications on gender issues; concrete solutions are necessary – and even if they win critique is good, their alternative is still biased** </span>
**Caprioli 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mary, Department of Pol Sci @ U of Tennessee, “Feminist IR and Quantitative Methodology: A Critical Analysis,” International Studies Review (2004) 6, 253–269, dml)</span>

__If researchers cannot add gender to an analysis… …such a focus does not add to feminist IR theories.__

**6. Perm – do the plan as a way of rejecting patriarchy – military presence in Japan is a unique site of unequal power relations**
**Kirk 8**<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">-Ph.D. in political sociology from the London School of Economics, founding member of the East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, chaired the Women's Studies Program at Antioch College (1992-1995), Jane Watson Irwin Visiting Chair in Women's Studies at Hamilton College (1999-2001), Rockefeller Fellowship in Women's Studies (University of Hawaii, 2002) (Gwyn, Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, "Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, 2008, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]) </span>

[[#_Toc265592821]]__… …go hand-in-hand with this racist/sexist ideology.__


==**Impact Turns/AT Disads**== 

===**Prolif Good**=== 

====2AC==== 


**Asian prolif is inevitable**
**Alagappa 9** – distinguished senior scholar at East-West Center (Muthiah, Global Asia, “nuclear weapons reinforce stability and security in 21st century Asia.” Google scholar)

Continuing emphasis on non-proliferation and calls… …that rely on the American nuclear umbrella for their security. 



**And, not destabilizing.**
**Alagappa 9** – distinguished senior scholar at East-West Center (Muthiah, Global Asia, “nuclear weapons reinforce stability and security in 21st century Asia.” Google scholar)

__Nuclear weapons have not disrupted or destabilized… …in its vast lead in several dimensions of power__.


**And, no chain reactions**
**Potter & Mukhatzhanova 8** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[William C. and Gaukhar</span>, * Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies and Research Associate at the James Martin Center, **“**Divining Nuclear Intentions: a review essay.” <span style="color: #141413;">International Security, Vol. 33, No. 1 (Summer 2008), pp. 139–169, </span>Google scholar]


__Today it is hard to find an analyst or commentator… …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">insight into that dimension of the proliferation puzzle.48</span>


**And, it guarantees stability and reinforces our no war arguments**
**Asal & Beardsley 7** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Victor, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci. – SUNY Albany, and Kyle, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci. – Emory U., Journal of Peace Research, “Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior”, 44:2, Sage]</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Other, more optimistic, </span>__scholars see benefits to nuclear… …commensurate with the potential gains of an attacker’.__


**And, prolif creates satellites**
**Norris 7** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Pat, Space Strategy Manager – Logica UK, “Spies in the sky: surveillance satellites in war and peace”, p. 169-170, Google Print] </span>

__Surveillance satellites that are specifically military… …the missile tests undertaken by North Korea__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>

**And, that’s key to global environmental sustainability.**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Reibaldi 95</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[Giuseppe, European Space Agency, Acta Astronautica, “Contribution of Space Activities to Peace”, 35:8, ScienceDirect] </span>

__The 1970s have seen the rise of ecological movements… …achieving a policy of sustainable development.__



===Japan Prolif Good=== 
====2AC==== 

**Japan prolif won’t trigger a regional arms race or collapse the NPT.**
**White 8** <span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">[Hugh, Visiting Fellow at the Lowy Institute for International Policy and Professor of Strategic Studies at the Australian National University, 7/16, “Why Japan might have to go nuclear,” The Lowy Interpreter, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/Why-Japan-might-have-to-go-nuclear.aspx]]</span>] </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">But </span>__in a world with nuclear weapons____… …__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">it seems only nuclear weapons can do that. </span>

**Japan prolif key to create a concert of powers in Asia – conflict is coming**
**White 8** <span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">[Hugh, Visiting Fellow at the Lowy Institute for International Policy and Professor of Strategic Studies at the Australian National University, 7/16, “Why Japan might have to go nuclear,” The Lowy Interpreter, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2008/07/Why-Japan-might-have-to-go-nuclear.aspx]]</span>] </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">I should have known Sam would not… …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">relationship</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 6pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and hence </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">for a stable Asian region</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>






===Dedev=== 


====**2AC**==== 





**FIRST, Sustainability – Collapse of society is inevitable – history proves**

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Debora </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">MacKenzie</span>__**, writer, 4/5/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__**, “Are we doomed?”, New Scientist, Academic Search Premier, umn-rks



<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation. Literature and film abound… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">stop destroying our environmental support systems</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>





**SECOND, Timeframe – collapse now is key to prevent extinction**

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Glen </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barry</span>__**, Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development", 1/14/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__**, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology”, Counter Currents, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm, umn-rks



<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">Humanity and the Earth are faced with…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is more fragile than it looks.</span></span>





**THIRD, Decline won’t cause war**

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Daniel </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deudney</span>__**, Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Princeton, April 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">91</span>__**, “Environment and Security: Muddled Thinking”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, p. 27, google books, umn-rks



<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Poverty Wars. In a second scenario, declining… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">skills, specialized industrial products and surplus wealth</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>



**FOURTH, Dedev solves all war**

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Ted </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Trainer</span>__**, Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the School of Social Work, University of New South Wales, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">95</span>__**, The Conserver Society, p. 165



<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">If the foregoing analysis is valid, not much needs,,, ,,,</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">no one has any desire <span style="border: none;">to threaten you</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>






====**1AR**==== 





<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Collapse inevitable – diminishing returns </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Debora </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">MacKenzie</span>__**, writer, 4/5/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__**, “Are we doomed?”, New Scientist, Academic Search Premier, umn-rks



<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">There is,</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> however, </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">a price to be paid…<span style="border: initial none initial;"> …</span>shift</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> in the way the society is organised.</span></span>



**Now is key**
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Glen </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barry</span>__**, Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development", 1/5/**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>__**, “EARTH MEANDERS: Resisting Global Ecological Change”, EcoEarth, http://www.ecoearth.info/blog/2010/01/earth_meanders_resisting_globa.asp, umn-rks 


<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Those that are so enamored with Gandhi… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9pt;">perhaps along with all Earth’s life, prosper again</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>


===START Bad=== 
====2AC==== 

**1. The Russians are coming – the Communists still control Russia and a massive network of spies that feed misinformation to the media – relations are impossible**
**Nyquist 9**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> – (J.R., former Russia analyst for the DOD and all-American superstar, 7/24, “Acknowledging the Deception,” [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html]], dml)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">If it sounds like Soviet times, you are… …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">imitate and </span>__exploit for their own purposes.”__



**2. START gives the commies the ability to destroy the US**
**Nyquist 9 –** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(J.R., former Russia analyst for the DOD and all-American superstar, 7/17, “Marina Kalashnikova’s Warning to the West,” [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html]], dml)</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">In other words, the West has already been… …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Putin was the master terrorist behind al Qaeda.</span>__ </span>

**3. That causes Russian first strike**
Joel **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">Skousen</span>__**, Political scientist, editor-in-chief of the World Affairs Brief, “Canceled European missile Defense Signals New Disarmament Race to War,” <span style="text-transform: uppercase;">World Affairs Brief, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">9-25</span><span style="text-transform: uppercase;">-200</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">9</span>__**<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in; tab-stops: right 4.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">The UK Guardian reported that, "Barack </span><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Obama… …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">moves by the Obama administration so worrisome</span>. </span>__</span></span>

**4. Only scenario for extinction**
**Bostrom 2**

**5. Independently, Russians cause every impact – better dead than red**
**Nyquist 9/17** <span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">(JR, former Russia analyst for the DOD and all-American superstar, “Those who know will understand,” [[http://financialsense.com/contributors/jr-nyquist/those-who-know-will-understand]], dml) </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">According to some experts the U.S. economy is</span>____<span style="color: black;">… …"wake up."</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Of course, he knows they won't.</span>



====1AR==== 

**And, Russia __will__ cheat and launch an attack – this causes nuclear annihilation**
**Nyquist 10** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(JR, former Russia analyst for the DOD and all-American superstar, “Russian cheating,” [[http://financialsense.com/contributors/jr-nyquist/russian-cheating]], dml) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">But the </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Obama</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> administration wants a treaty… …precisely </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 10pt;">because the Russians will violate them.</span>__

**And, more evidence – START weakens us to great power challengers and ensures the destruction of the red, white, and blue**
**Nyquist 11/12** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(JR, former Russia analyst for the DOD and all-American superstar, “A tiger in the dark,” [[http://financialsense.com/contributors/jr-nyquist/a-tiger-in-the-dark]], dml)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Given the anti-American tenor of anti-colonial… …neglecting to consider the presence of a whole tiger.</span>

**And, Russia would use bioweapons**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">J.R. </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Nyquist</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Expert in Soviet strategy, Cold War history, and social theory, “Surprise nuclear missile attack, part 2,” WORLDNETDAILY, November 11, 19</span>**__<span style="color: black;">99</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19773.</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">In Russian thinking, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a nuclear war… …would follow for millions</span></span>__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> of people. </span></span>

**Comparatively worse than nukes**
**Levy 7** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]])</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Biological weapons are among the most… …</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">large quantities can be developed within days.</span>

====AT: Nyquist is a hack/GBS's Nyquist voter thing==== 

He's qualified, the DOD votes aff

<span style="color: black;">Robert</span> **__<span style="color: black;">Scott</span>__**<span style="color: black;">, Sergeant and Member of the Civil Intelligence Organization and Defense Oversight Group, “The Cold War with Russia is not over ,” NCOIC, 20**__04__**,<span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.ncoic.com/coldwar.htm]]</span>. </span>

<span style="color: black;">Since prior to hearing Mr. <span class="il">Nyquist</span>'s radio interview… …</span><span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt; padding: 0in;">reliable source by the Defense Intelligence Agency</span> <span style="color: black;">and I agree.</span>