[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
== == 
V- morality
VC- maximizing international cooperation
Rights are universal
Culture and rights: anthropological perspectives By Jane K. Cowan, Marie-Bénédicte Dembour, Richard Wilson. 2001, Cambridge University Press.
We are interdependent
Harald Muller. Spring 2008. The Future of Nuclear Weapons in an Interdependent World. The Washington Quarterly.
1C- nukes create fear
MACK, JOHN. 1986. Nuclear Weapons and the Dark Side of Humankind. Political Psychology Vol. 7, No. 2 (Jun., 1986), pp. 223-233 
2C- nukes can coerce
BondGraham, Darwin . 2009. Anti-nuclear Nuclearism 
3C- foreign policy is facilitated by military power
Shahid Amin. Jan 25, 2010. National Interests and diplomacy. Dawn. <http://www.dawn.com/wps/wcm/connect/dawn-content-library/dawn/the-newspaper/editorial/14-national-interests-and-diplomacy-510-zj-08>
4C- Iran will abuse nukes
Schulte, Gregory. Feb 8 2010. Iran's Nuclear Threat to NATO. New Atlanticist, <http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/iran-nuclear-threat-nato>
5C- we should give nukes to the UN
== == 
==Negative== 
V- morality
VC- respecting the right of the state to self-defense
1C- the deterrent effect of nukes can be used for self-defense
ART, ROBERT. Between Assured Destruction and Nuclear Victory: The Case for the "Mad-Plus" Posture; Ethics. 1985.


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
== == 
V-societal welfare. 
People cannot be held accountable for their actions because of natural and predictable laws. Immanuel Kant: 
Found in Free Will, Derk Pereboom, Ed. Hacket Publishing Co. New York: September 1997
We can’t control actions. Roderick Chrisholm:
Found in Free Will, Derk Pereboom, Ed. Hacket Publishing Co. New York: September 1997
Actions are constrained by laws. A. J. Ayer: 
FREEDOM AND NECESSITY; December 15, 1997
Autonomy doesn’t matter. Chrisholm 2:
Found in Free Will, Derk Pereboom, Ed. Hacket Publishing Co. New York: September 1997
Behavior is predetermined. Ayer 2, 
FREEDOM AND NECESSITY; December 15, 1997
Humans can’t be held accountable.
Friedrich Nietzsche: 
The Four Great Errors, 1889. Aphorisms #7 & #8. Twilight of the Idols
The environment is beyond man’s contrrol. Chrisholm 3: 
Found in Free Will, Derk Pereboom, Ed. Hacket Publishing Co. New York: September 1997
Will doesn’t exist. Nick Otani: 
Metaphysical determinism and free will. November 26, 2002 <http://www.objectivethought.com/debates/otanib3.html>
<span style="line-height: 115%;">Punishing people is unjust, so prefer public health. </span>
== == 
==Negative== 
People use drugs for criminal status and must be free to do so. Robert Regoli x2:
Delinquency in Society. Robert M. Regoli, John D. Hewitt, and Matt Delisi. Jones and Barlett Publishers, 2010.
Man comes first. Jean-Paul Sartre:
Found in Existentialism from Dostoevsky to Sartre, ed. Walter Kaufman, Meridian Publishing Company, 1989. [[#htmldiff14]]
[[#htmldiff15]]Sartre 2,
Found in Existentialism from Dostoevsky to Sartre, ed. Walter Kaufman, Meridian Publishing Company, 1989. 
Reject the aff.

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]