[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>= 

<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The US will continue to push for bases – they think that Japan needs to make a sacrifice </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Washington Post, 2010</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Blaine Harden-Staff Writer. January 24, Future of Okinawa base strains U.S.-Japanese Alliance http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/01/23/AR2010012302392_2.html] </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline">The Obama administration's position on the base issue has moderated substantially in the past three months. Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates warned in November of serious consequences if Japan did not honor its 2006 promise. But this month, Secretary of State Hillary <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rodham </span>Clinton voiced patient understanding, saying, "We are respectful of the process that the Japanese government is going through." Still, the White House is continuing to press for the existing plan. "An alliance requires sacrifices on both sides, and it is going to make some people unhappy," a senior administration official said</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">
</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should remove its military presence from Japan. </span></span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 2: Japanese Leadership </span>= 
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Japan is not fulfilling its leadership role –it has the economic capacity and military capability to be a strong alliance partner and global leader</span>. </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Klingner, 2010</span>**-is senior research fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Bruce, “Japan Risks Irrelevancy In Asia” March 24, accessed July 14, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/03/Japan-Risks-Irrelevancy-in-Asia] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
__Japan's international influence and relevance are diminishing due to a faltering economy, national indecisiveness, and constrained security policies. The current trajectory of Japan's future is disheartening, with little reason for optimism of a change in course__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This disturbing trend long predates the election of the Democratic Party of Japan. </span>__Left unchecked, Japan risks devolving into a second-tier, middle-power nation. Japan's economic capacity and growing military capabilities enable it to be a strong alliance partner and a significant force to pursue global objectives.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Yet, Japan is a powerful nation that consistently punches below its weight. </span>__Rather than implementing a strategic policy, Japan has followed a minimalist, cost-effective, and reactive approach designed to derive maximum security and economic benefits from its alliance with the U.S. while providing the minimal necessary reciprocal gestures__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Specifically, Japanese defense spending is insufficient now - US military presence in Japan undermines their incentive to increase military spending  </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Preble, 2006, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher, April 18, “Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6335, accessed 7/14/10] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
__Although Japan’s defense spending is comparable to that of other advanced industrial democracies, it might still be insufficient relative to the threats Japan faces__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Tokyo’s allocation of approximately 1 percent of its GDP to defense in 2004 contrasts with the 2.4 percent spent by the South Koreans, for example, and the more than 4 percent spent by the United States during the same period, and yet Japan is operating within the same strategic environment and is concerned about similar threats. </span>__It is logical to conclude, therefore, that the U.S. security guarantee has enabled the Japanese to refrain from spending more on their defense__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.31 On the other hand, </span>__military spending is hardly the only measure of a country’s international engagement__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Japan remains a leading provider of foreign aid, contributing more than $6.7 billion in Official Development Assistance in 2003, more than any other country with the exception of the United States.32 These numbers make clear that Japan already plays an active role in world affairs, in spite of the constitutional restrictions on the use of military force. </span>__What Japan has lacked for much of its history since the end of World War II is the incentive and the will to take responsibility for its own security—and for regional security—to a degree commensurate with its economic power and interests__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The U.S. security guarantee serves as a disincentive for change, and U.S. policy has therefore impeded the development of Japan’s indigenous military capabilities, capabilities that might prove useful to both countries in the future.__ 
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">America’s Military Presence locks in an outdated security arrangement – it prevents Japan from rethinking its constitution and expanding their military responsibilities. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Bandow, 2010, senior fellow at the Cato Institute</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Doug, May 12, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” available at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804, accessed on 7/14/2010]  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">World War II ended 65 years ago. </span>__The Cold War disappeared 21 years ago. Yet America's military deployments have little changed__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Nowhere is that more evident than on the Japanese island of Okinawa__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Okinawans are tired of the heavy U.S. military presence. Some 90,000 — nearly 10 percent of the island's population — gathered in protest at the end of April. </span>__It is time for Washington to lighten Okinawa's burden__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. An independent kingdom swallowed by imperial Japan, Okinawa was the site of a brutal battle as the United States closed in on Japan in early 1945. After Tokyo's surrender, Washington filled the main prefecture island with bases and didn't return it to Japan until 1972. </span>__America's military presence has only been modestly reduced__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since. </span>__The facilities grew out of the mutual defense treaty between America and Japan__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, by which the former promised to defend the latter, which was disarmed after its defeat. The island provided a convenient home for American units. Most Japanese people also preferred to keep the U.S. military presence on Japan's most distant and poorest province, forcing Okinawans to carry a disproportionate burden of the alliance. </span>__It is time for Washington to lighten Okinawa's burden. Whatever the justifications of this arrangement during the Cold War, the necessity of both U.S. ground forces in Japan and the larger mutual defense treaty between the two nations has disappeared. It's time to reconsider both Tokyo's and Washington's regional roles__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The United States__ __imposed the so-called "peace constitution" on Japan, Article 9 of which__ __prohibits the__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">use of force and even </span>__creation of a military__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. However, American officials soon realized that Washington could use military assistance. </span>__Today's "Self-Defense Force" is a widely accepted verbal evasion of a clear constitutional provision__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Nevertheless</span>__, both domestic pacifism and regional opposition have discouraged reconsideration of Japan's military role__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Washington's willingness to continue defending an increasingly wealthy Japan made a rethink unnecessary__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Two Scenarios: first, China </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Japanese leadership is necessary to prevent a Chinese attack on Taiwan – it solves better than US military presence because China would be more credibly deterred by a regional actor, and Japan would support Taiwan </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Preble, 2006, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Christopher, April 18, “Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6335, accessed 7/14/10] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
__The Japanese public appears to be generally sympathetic to the Taiwanese cause__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__suggesting that Tokyo’s decision to show support for Taipei goes beyond narrow security concerns, and also beyond a desire to please Washington__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. An estimated 2.3 million tourists travel between Taiwan and Japan each year, and Japan is Taiwan’s largest trading partner.73 Favorable sentiment does not necessarily translate into support for independence among Japanese, however. In a September 2002 Japan Times survey, 71 percent of Japanese declared they were satisfied with the status quo on Taiwan; in other words, they favored neither reunification with the PRC nor independence from it.74 This may reflect a recognition on the part of the Japanese public that Taiwanese independence may provoke the Chinese to military action, which would certainly prove detrimental to Japanese security. But doubts and fears about the PRC do not completely overwhelm Japanese affinity for Taiwan and the Taiwanese. </span>__A Mainichi poll taken in 2001 asked Japanese citizens to identify countries and regions friendly to Japan. Taiwan ranked third, behind the United States and South Korea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.75 </span>__On balance, the Japanese like Taiwan and the feeling is apparently mutual__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__“The Japanese built universities, roads, and other infrastructure. They educated us, they turned us into a more modern society,”__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">said Hwang Kuan-hu, a national policy adviser to Taiwanese president Chen Shui-bian, “We welcome Japan becoming more involved again with Taiwan.”76 Whether this mutual appreciation would translate into a formal Japanese pledge to assist Taiwan in the event of Chinese aggression remains to be seen, but that should ultimately be a decision for the Japanese government, and the Japanese public, consistent with their own security concerns. The presumed wishes or desires of the United States should not be the determining factor. </span>__Given Taiwan’s strategic location across crucial Japanese lines of communication, the Japanese would view PRC control over the island as a security threat__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Although Japan currently has only a limited capacity for blocking military annexation, a strong statement__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, building on the February 2005 joint declaration, </span>__may__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> help </span>__deter Chinese military action against Taiwan. Even a position of deliberate ambiguity, holding out the possibility that Japan might employ military means to repel Chinese aggression, would likely be more credible coming from a regional military power than is the current ambiguous pledge originating with a United States that is struggling to sustain a host of commitments around the globe.__ 
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Expanding Japanese military power is necessary to balance Chinese expansion without destabilizing Asia – Japan is the only Asian nation that would be accepted as a counterweight </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Preble, 2006, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Christopher, April 18, “Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6335, accessed 7/14/10] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, </span>__Japan’s neighbors should welcome a potential counterweight to a rising China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Many already do. Attitudes toward Japan vary widely, with Taiwanese, Singaporeans, Filipinos, and Malays much more favorably disposed than are Koreans. The Chinese are not eager to see the emergence of a strategic competitor in Asia. </span>__From the perspective of political and military leaders in Beijing, a “proper” role for the Japanese SDF would have little if any impact on the regional balance of power__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. China’s path over the past 30 years has been marked by increased economic liberalization combined with some (albeit halting) political reform. But there is still a long way to go. </span>__Common economic interests within Asia may lead to China’s peaceful integration into the region. Or China could turn away from its current course of political and economic liberalization and revert to economic autarchy imposed by military force__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is even possible that China could become a revisionist power, no longer content to accept regional security configurations in their present form. That could occur even if the PRC holds to a course of economic reform. Against those unlikely but dangerous possibilities</span>__, East Asian countries might wish to adopt a hedging strategy that would allow for the emergence, in the meantime, of other regional powers capable of balancing against a rising China. Japan is the one regional power best suited to play this role. Japan is a stable and mature democracy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The pre–World War II era, when an imperial Japan attempted to secure an exclusive economic sphere for itself, is long past. The Japanese people have demonstrated a consistent aversion to the use of force and an equally strong determination to maintain firm civilian control over the nation’s military__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is highly unlikely that a new strategic relationship between the United States and Japan, one that affords Japan a place within the international community consistent with its economic, political, and military strength, would open the door to Japanese militarism that has remained dormant for nearly 60 years. </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">China is aggressive and threatens now – wants Taiwan and Spratly.  </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Maginnis 5/20 -- </span>**<span class="apple-style-span">retired Army lieutenant colonel, a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television and a senior strategist with the U.S. Army</span> (Robert, Human Events, “China's High Seas Aggression.” http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=37081)  
__China’s aggressive actions on the high seas, its rapidly expanding navy and its new global strategy suggest <span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">Beijing’s motivations are </span>__<span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1pt; font-size: 8pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">as much</span>__<span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;"> about geopolitical power</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as economics. That’s why the U.S. either accommodates its soon-to-be naval “peer competitor” or face the risk of military conflicts with the emerging superpower. </span>__Japan’s foreign minister expressed concern last week about China’s growing military aggression. “I wouldn’t use the word ‘threat’ – but we certainly will need to watch very carefully the nuclear arsenal and naval capabilities of China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” Katsuya Okada told the //Wall Street Journal.// </span>__Okada filed a protest__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">with Beijing earlier this month</span> __over “obstructive behavior” by a Chinese survey ship in the East China Sea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Okada complained the Chinese ship chased a Japanese coast guard vessel that Tokyo said was conducting marine surveys within Japan’s economic zone. That was </span>__the third Chinese provocation over the past month__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. On April 10 and 21, a flotilla from China’s East Sea Fleet sailed through Japan’s Miyako Strait, a mineral-rich area disputed between the two Asian powers. During each passage Chinese helicopters circled near Japanese destroyers.</span> __These incidents irked the Japanese and they happened just days after warships from China’s North Sea Fleet returned from what the Chinese called “confrontation exercises” in the South China Sea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, according to Stratfor, an American intelligence group. The U.S. Navy has been a victim of Chinese “confrontation.” In 2001, Chinese fighters intercepted and crashed into a U.S. Navy P-3 Orion aircraft and then forced it to land at a Chinese military airfield. In late 2007, a Chinese Song class submarine surfaced dangerously close to the U.S.S. Kitty Hawk, an aircraft carrier, during a Pacific exercise. Last year, Chinese vessels aggressively maneuvered within 25 feet of the USNS Impreccable, an unarmed ocean surveillance ship, in the South China Sea. </span>__These aggressive actions suggest China’s navy is taking on a new and dangerous character.__ __China’s aggressive naval behavior accompanies the regime’s growing and seemingly insatiable appetite for natural resources and the movement of its products to sustain a fast-growing economy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. That means Beijing must depend on sea routes for transporting goods, which has become a factor shaping its strategic naval behavior. Beijing’s motive for a large navy is more complex than trade. </span>__There is a <span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">rising tide of Chinese nationalism</span> aimed at Japan and the U.S., China’s long-time naval rivals. A larger navy feeds Chinese national pride at its rivals’ expense and <span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">gives Beijing the tools to eventually reunify the “renegade province” of Taiwan by force if necessar</span>__<span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">y.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">And</span> __it helps to control contested island groups off China’s coasts, which form a new outer-defense security belt. This multi-faceted motivation prompts China’s strategic military transformation__. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Pentagon’s 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review outlines that transformation</span>__: “China’s military has begun to develop new roles, missions, and capabilities in support of its growing regional and global interests.”__ 
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">The impact is Global nuclear war </span></span>**
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">Hunkovic, 09 - American Military University</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">] </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
__<span style="color: black;">A war between China, Taiwan and the United States has the potential **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">to escalate into a nuclear conflict and a third world war</span>**</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, therefore, </span>__<span style="color: black;">many countries</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> other than the primary actors </span>__<span style="color: black;">could be affected by such a conflict, including Japan, both Koreas, Russia, Australia, India and Great</span>__ __<span style="color: black;">Britain, if they were drawn into the war, as well as all other countries in the world that participate in the global economy, in which the U</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="color: black;">S</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="color: black;">and China are the</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> two </span>__<span style="color: black;">most dominant</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> members. </span>__<span style="color: black;">If China were</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> able </span>__<span style="color: black;">to</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> successfully </span>__<span style="color: black;">annex Taiwan</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__<span style="color: black;">the possibility exists that they could then plan to attack Japan and begin a policy of aggressive expansionism</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> in East and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific and even into India, </span>__<span style="color: black;">which could in</span>__ __<span style="color: black;">turn create an international standoff and deployment of military forces to contain the threat</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. In any case, </span>__<span style="color: black;">if China and the U</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="color: black;">S</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">tates engage </span>__<span style="color: black;">in a full-scale conflict, there are few countries in the world that will not be</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> economically and/or militarily </span>__<span style="color: black;">affected</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> by it. However, China, Taiwan and United States are the primary actors in this scenario, whose actions will determine its eventual outcome, therefore, other countries will not be considered in this study.  </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Second Scenario – North Korea </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Aggressive North Korean behavior makes the accidental or intentional use of Weapons of Mass Destruction Likely </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The International Crisis Group, 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], JMP) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This report examines North Korea’s chemical and biological weapons capabilities in the context of its military doctrine and national objectives. It is based on open source literature, interviews and unpublished documents made available to Crisis Group. Companion reports published simultaneously assess the DPRK’s nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities and what the policy response of the international community should be to its recent nuclear and missile testing.[1] North Korea’s programs to develop weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and ballistic missiles pose serious risks to security. </span>__Pyongyang’s nuclear capabilities are the greatest threat, but it also possesses a **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">large stockpile of chemical weapons</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">and</span>** is suspected of maintaining a **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">biological weapons</span>** program.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The Six-Party Talks (China, Japan, North Korea, Russia, South Korea and the U.S.) had been underway since August 2003 with the objective of ending the North’s nuclear ambitions, before Pyongyang announced its withdrawal in April 2009, but </span>__there is no direct mechanism for dealing with its chemical weapons and possible biological weapons. The North Korean leadership is very unlikely to surrender its WMD **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">unless there is significant change in the political and security environments.</span>**__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Six-Party Talks pro­duced a “Statement of Principles” in September 2005 that included a commitment to establish a permanent peace mechanism in North East Asia, but the structure and nature of such a cooperative security arrangement is subject to interpretation, negotiation and implementation. Views among the parties differ, and no permanent peace can be established unless North Korea abandons all its WMD programs. The diplomatic tasks are daunting, and diplomacy could fail. If North Korea refuses to engage in arms control and to rid itself of WMD, the international community must be prepared to deal with a wide range of threats, including those posed by Pyongyang’s chemical and biological weapons capabilities. </span>__Unclassified estimates of the chemical weapons__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (CW) </span>__arsenal are imprecise, but **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the consensus</span>** is that the__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Korean People’s Army </span>__(KPA) possesses 2,500-5,000 tons,__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> including mustard, phosgene, blood agents, sarin, tabun and V-agents (persistent nerve agents). </span>__The stockpile__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> does not appear to be increasing but </span>__is **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">already sufficient</span>** to inflict massive civilian casualties on South Korea.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The North’s CW can be delivered with long-range artillery, multiple rocket launchers, FROGs (free rocket over ground), ballistic missiles, aircraft and naval vessels. North Korean military doctrine emphasises quick offensive strikes to break through enemy defences in order to achieve national military objectives before the U.S. can intervene effectively on behalf of its South Korean ally. However, </span>__the North’s conventional military capabilities are declining against those of its potential foes, so the leadership is likely to rely on asymmetric capabilities for its national security objectives. This strategy poses a significant danger because it risks **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">deliberate, accidental or unauthorised WMD attacks or incidents.</span>**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Even if a conflict won’t start intentionally, current high Korean tensions risk accidents that escalate to global nuclear war </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">STRATFOR, 10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], JMP) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Managing Escalation But </span>__no one, of course, is interested in another war on the Korean Peninsula__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Both sides will posture, but at the end of the day, </span>__neither benefits from a major outbreak of hostilities.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And despite the specter of North Korean troops streaming under the DMZ through tunnels and wreaking havoc behind the lines in the south (a scenario for which there has undoubtedly been significant preparation), neither side has any intention of invading the other. </span>__So the real issue is the potential for escalation — or an accident that could precipitate escalation — that would be beyond the control of Pyongyang or Seoul. With both sides on high alert, both adhering to their own national (and contradictory) definitions of where disputed boundaries lie and with rules of engagement loosened, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the potential for <span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">sudden and rapid escalation</span> is quite real.</span>**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, North Korea’s navy, though sizable on paper, is largely a hollow shell of old, laid-up vessels. What remains are small fast attack craft and submarines — mostly Sang-O “Shark” class boats and midget submersibles. These vessels are best employed in the cluttered littoral environment to bring asymmetric tactics to bear — not unlike those Iran has prepared for use in the Strait of Hormuz. These kinds of vessels and tactics — including, especially, the deployment of naval mines — are poorly controlled when dispersed in a crisis and are often impossible to recall. </span>__For nearly 40 years, tensions on the Korean Peninsula were managed within the context of the wider Cold War.__ __During that time it was feared that a second Korean War could all too **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">easily escalate into and a <span style="border-bottom-color: windowtext; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1pt; border-left-color: windowtext; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1pt; border-right-color: windowtext; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1pt; border-top-color: windowtext; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">thermonuclear World War III</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, so both Pyongyang and Seoul were being heavily managed from their respective corners. In fact, USFK was long designed to ensure that South Korea could not independently provoke that war and drag the Americans into it, which for much of the Cold War period was of far greater concern to Washington than North Korea attacking southward. Today, those constraints no longer exist. There are certainly still constraints — neither the United States nor China wants war on the peninsula. But </span>__current tensions are **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">quickly escalating to a level unprecedented</span>** in the post-Cold War period, and the constraints that do exist have never been tested in the way they might be if the situation escalates much further.__  

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">A more independent Japan would resolve North Korean provocation and proliferation better than America’s military presence – it would be more credible than US pressure which has empirically failed </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Preble, 2006, director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Christopher, April 18, “Rethinking the U.S.-Japan Strategic Relationship”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6335, accessed 7/14/10] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The North Korean crisis may have provided the catalyst for a fundamental shift in Japanese strategy and policy, but it cannot be viewed in a vacuum. Although the steps thus far taken by Koizumi against North Korea have not satisfied a segment of the Japanese population, many of whom remain more concerned about the emotional abductee issue than about the objective security threat, China’s rise poses a more important challenge to Japan’s security over the medium to long term.93 </span>__For now, given the urgency of the North Korean threat to Japan, and befitting Japan’s emergence as a normal power, it would be natural for Japan to take a leading role in attempting to end North Korea’s nuclear program__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__As other regional threats become more serious, however, many Japanese may come to resent U.S. policies that appear to impede their reasonable efforts to defend themselves__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Continued strong opposition within Japan to the use of the military for offensive ends suggests that unilateral preemptive action by Japan against North Korea is highly unlikely. On the other hand, it is unrealistic to expect that Tokyo would wait for U.S. permission to respond to a direct attack. It is only slightly more plausible that the Japanese would refrain from using force in response to credible evidence of an imminent threat. Military action against North Korea, even if it were found to be a legitimate exercise of the right of self-defense, would certainly stir regional animosity. </span>__That is a reflection of the difficult balancing act that Japan must play vis-à-vis other potential allies in the region, chief among them South Korea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. North and South Koreans alike harbor deep resentment toward the Japanese. Koreans were the victims of horrible crimes at the hands of the Japanese, of which the notorious abuses inflicted on Korean “comfort women” were only the most infamous. Although U.S. policymakers should rightly be concerned about regional hostility toward Japan, such concerns are not more worrisome than the crisis in the here and now, when an impoverished and increasingly desperate North Korea might be tempted to sell nuclear materials to terrorists. Short of offensive military operations against Pyongyang, </span>__Japan has other means for defending itself from North Korean nuclear weapons independent of the United States. Japan has cooperated with the United States in the construction of an anti-ballistic missile system, but the further development and deployment of such a system need not depend on U.S. support__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__If active countermeasures for dealing with regional security threats were deemed insufficient, the Japanese might even take the fateful step of developing their own nuclear deterrent__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.94 In short, </span>__a Japanese military, operating independent of the United States but still constrained by the pacifist impulses of the Japanese public, could prove a credible deterrent to offensive actions by North Korea against Japan proper and might also succeed in convincing the DPRK to abandon its nuclear ambitions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__in contrast to U.S. economic and diplomatic pressure, which has been completely ineffective. Beyond the North Korean crisis, Japanese military power might prove instrumental for dealing with future serious challenges to the regional security order.__ 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Withdrawal from Okinawa causes the US to forge new relations with East Asia that encourage cooperation and diplomatic solutions </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Bandow, 2010, senior fellow at the Cato Institute</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Doug, March 25, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” available at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11617, accessed on 7/14/2010] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
__The Obama administration should__ __pursue a different course, a transformational agenda, emphasizing economic integration while promoting military detachment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. America still has a major economic role to play, but should increasingly devolve defense responsibilities on countries in the region. </span>__The most important relationship for the 21st century will be that between the existing superpower and the potential superpower__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Washington should strengthen economic and trade ties with China. Moreover, Washington must forge a cooperative relationship on difficult regional issues like North Korea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The PRC has much at stake on a stable Korean Peninsula; it also has much to gain from taking the lead in promoting diplomatic solutions of regional problems. The president should press for a more active PRC policy to support reinvigorated U.S. engagement with the North__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Washington should speak frankly about the importance of human rights, while recognizing America's limited ability to influence the PRC's behavior. </span>__An improved bilateral relationship is more likely than isolation to encourage greater respect__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by Beijing for the liberty of its citizens nnnu0. </span>__The president should treat Japan as a full partner__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In economics, that means proposing a free trade agreement. </span>__On defense, rather than merely adjusting its controversial Status of Forces Agreement, Washington should withdraw its garrisons from Japanese soil and turn defense responsibility for Japan over to Toky__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">o</span>__. The U.S. also should encourage greater cooperation between Japan and its neighbors__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. World War II ended more than six decades ago: </span>__The Japanese do not have a double dose of original sin and America should no longer play geopolitical wet-nurse for nations that long ago developed the means to protect their own interests__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Washington should engage North Korea over its nuclear program. At the same time, the U.S. should inform the North that full international integration requires the participation of South Korea, China, Japan, and Russia as well__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Obama administration should coordinate South Korea, Japanese, and U.S. policies regarding Pyongyang. However, Washington should allow the Republic of Korea to lead the nonproliferation campaign. Seoul has the most at stake in maintaining a peaceful peninsula. </span>__As the U.S. steps back from its dominant military role, the ROK and its neighbors should step forward. At the same time, Washington should seek to tighten regional economic integration__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The starting point should be a push to ratify the FTA with South Korea. President Obama needs to promote a changed attitude as much as offer new policies. </span>__The Japanese government apparently is interested in promoting a regional order, called the East Asian Community, apart from the U.S. Washington should embrace rather than resist such an approach__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The U.S. will be most secure if friendly states in East Asia work together to confront sources of instability, promote respect for human rights, and encourage the peaceful settlement of disputes__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Such a cooperative venture also would help channel China's rise in peaceful directions. The U.S. will remain engaged in East Asia. America's cultural and economic ties are long-lasting and mutually beneficial. But Washington no longer has any need to attempt to preserve regional military hegemony.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

=<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 3: American Leadership </span>= 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Overseas bases in Japan will collapse US military readiness due to imperial overstretch </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Johnson, 2010, president of Japan Policy Research Institute</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Chalmers, May 6, “The Downward Slope of EmpireTalking With Chalmers Johnson”, http://www.counterpunch.org/kreisler05062010 .html, accessed 7/17/10] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What interests me here is that </span>__we’re talking about something that looks very much like the end of the Roman Republic__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—which was, in many ways, a model for our own republic—</span>__and its conversion into a military dictatorship called the Roman Empire as the troops began to take over. The kind of figure that the Roman Republic began to look for was a military populist__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; of course, the most obvious example was Julius Caesar. But after Caesar’s assassination in 44B.C., the young Octavian becomes the “god” Augustus Caesar. I’m not trying to be a sensationalist, but </span>__I actually do worry about the future of the United States; whether, in fact, we are tending in the same path as the former Soviet Union, with domestic, ideological rigidity in our economic institutions, imperial overstretch__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—that’s what we’re talking about here—</span>__the belief that we have to be everywhere at all times__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We have always been a richer place than Russia was, so it will take longer. But </span>__we’re overextended. We can’t afford it. One of my four “sorrows of empire” at the end of the book is bankruptcy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The military is not productive.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> They do provide certain kinds of jobs, as you discover in the United States whenever you try and close a military base—no matter how con servative or liberal your congressional representatives are, they will go mad to try and keep it open, keep it functioning. And the military-industrial complex is very clever in making sure that the building of a B-2 bomber is spread around the country; it is not all located at Northrop in El Segundo, California. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Japanese bases make our leadership unsustainable – they cause interventionism because they are inherently offense oriented. This undermines US national security </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Bandow, 2009, senior fellow at the Cato Institute </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Doug, August 31, “Tokyo Drift,” available at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10496, accessed on 7/14/2010] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In fact, </span>__America's aggressive foreign policy and force structure, oriented to offense rather than defense, is why the United States spends so much on the military__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — roughly half of the global total. </span>__Washington has eleven carrier groups in order to attack other nations, such as Iran, North Korea and China, not to prevent them from attacking America.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Even more so, </span>__the role of U.S. bases and forces abroad is offensive, to intervene__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Protecting__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> war-torn </span>__allied states__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the aftermath of the greatest conflict of human history made sense. Doing the same today, </span>__when allied states have prospered and the most serious hegemonic threat has disappeared, does not make sense__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Washington should return to Japan responsibility for its defense.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Even today, Tokyo, though spending just one percent of GDP ($47 billion last year) on the military, is on par with the leading European states. But with the world's second largest economy (third based on purchasing power parity), Japan could do much more. Doubling its defense effort — which would still be half of America's burden — would match Chinese military spending </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Offshore balancing solves better for US leadership than a forward deployed military presence in Japanese bases – it avoids nuclear entanglement in Deterrence failures – this outweighs the risk of proliferation </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Bandow, 2009, senior fellow at the Cato Institute</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Doug, August 31, “Tokyo Drift,” available at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10496, accessed on 7/14/2010] </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Particularly important is the future of so-called extended deterrence. Analysts like Harvard's Joseph Nye take the policy for granted, worrying only about whether or not it is credible. However, </span>__as Beijing develops its own strategic nuclear deterrent against America, the question will arise: should the United States risk Los Angeles for Tokyo__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">? </span>__The increasing unpredictability of North Korean behavior has led to more discussion in Japan about the possibility of developing a countervailing weapon__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The potential for further proliferation in the region is worrisome, but no more so than the possibility of a confrontation between the United States and nuclear-armed China over the interests of other nations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Deterrence can fail__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And </span>__protecting other nations can lead them to be dangerously irresponsible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In any case, </span>__the United States would be less likely to have to rely on nuclear deterrence for Japan if that nation possessed an adequate conventional defense__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. With the rise of prosperous and/or populous allied states (Japan, South Korea, Australia, and several ASEAN nations) as well as friendly powers (India and Indonesia, most notably), </span>__Washington is in the position to act as an off-shore balancer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__prepared to act against an aggressive hegemonic power should one arise, but not entangled in daily geopolitical controversies. America's overwhelming power and geographic isolation give Washington greater flexibility in defending its own security.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Offshore balancing solves great power conflict – it is an effective alternative to US unipolar primacy </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Layne, 98 Visiting Associate Professor at the Naval Postgraduate School</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher,, World Policy Journal, “Rethinking American grand strategy: Hegemony or balance of power in the twenty-first century?” Volume 15, Issue 2, Summer, Proquest) </span>

__The United States is far better placed than Britain__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ever </span>__was to be a successful offshore balancer__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for two reasons: </span>__America's margin of power relative to other great powers is, and is likely to remain, far greater than Britain's was, and the United States enjoys a far higher degree of immunity from external threat than Britain did.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The underlying premise of an offshore balancing strategy is that it will become increasingly more difficult, dangerous, and costly for the United States to maintain order in, and control over, the international political system. In contrast to the strategy of preponderance, </span>__offshore balancing would define U.S. interests narrowly in terms of defending America's territorial integrity and preventing the rise of a Eurasian hegemon__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (</span>__that is, a state so powerful that, like Nazi Germany had Hitler been victorious, would potentially command sufficient resources to threaten North America__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">). As an offshore balancer, the United States would disengage from its military commitments in Europe, Japan, and South Korea. The overriding objectives of </span>__an offshore balancing strategy would be to insulate the United States from possible future great power wars and maximize its relative power position in the international system.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Offshore balancing would reject the strategy of preponderance's commitment to economic interdependence because interdependence has negative strategic consequences. </span>__Offshore balancing also would eschew any ambition to perpetuate U.S. hegemony and would abandon the ideological pretensions embedded in the strategy of preponderance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As an offshore balancer, there would be a strong presumption against U.S. involvement in the following kinds of activities: assertive promotion of democracy abroad; participation in peace enforcement operations; rescuing "failed states" (like Somalia and Haiti); and the use of military power for the purpose of humanitarian intervention. U.S. involvement in these types of external actions should be viewed skeptically because they seldom affect the geostrategic and security interests that would be the core of an American offshore balancing grand strategy. Offshore balancing is based on the following assumptions: balance of power strategies are superior to hegemonic ones; for a great power like the United States, economic interdependence is a danger, not a comfort; </span>__the credibility of U.S. extended deterrence commitments will be significantly degraded in coming years__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; </span>__U.S. strategy need not be burdened by excessive concern with credibility, resolve, and reputation; geography has important grand strategic implications; the risk of a rival Eurasian hegemon emerging is small; U.S. grand strategy can confidently assume that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">other states would balance against a potential hegemon</span>**; the dynamics of alliance relationships favor an offshore balancing strategy; and relative power concerns remain the bedrock of a prudent grand strategy.__ 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">It’s not a questions of “Hegemony Good” vs “Hegemony Bad” – it is a question of which Strategy best promotes and extends US Global Leadership – an Onshore Military Presence or an Offshore Balancing role. </span>****Offshore balancing solves All of their offense—multipolarity boxes in conflicts and allows the U.S. to maintain strategic flexibility** 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Layne, 98 Visiting Associate Professor at the Naval Postgraduate School</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christopher,, World Policy Journal, “Rethinking American grand strategy: Hegemony or balance of power in the twenty-first century?” Volume 15, Issue 2, Summer, Proquest) </span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Because of the interlocking effects of geography, nuclear weapons (which enhance insularity's strategic advantages), and formidable military and economic capabilities, the United States is virtually impregnable against direct attack. The risk of conflict, and the possible exposure of the American homeland to attack, derive directly from the overseas commitments mandated by an expansive definition of U.S. interests. </span>__In multipolar systems, insular great powers have a much broader range of strategic choices than less fortunately placed powers. They can avoid being entrapped by alliance commitments and need worry little about being abandoned by actual or potential allies. Offshore great powers also can choose to stay out of great power wars altogether or to limit their involvement__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">--a choice unavailable to states that live in dangerous neighborhoods in which rivals lurk nearby. </span>__As an insular great power in a multipolar world, the United States would retain a free hand strategically: although it might need to enter into temporary coalitions, America would disengage from permanent alliance relationships. An insular great power like the United States need not subject itself to strategic constraints of this kind.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The strategy of </span>__preponderance is based__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in part, </span>__on the assumption that the United States must prevent the rise of a hegemonic challenger because other states either will not do the job, or at least__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will </span>__not__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> do so </span>__effectively__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In contrast, </span>__an offshore balancing strategy would recognize that, in a multipolar world, other states will balance against potential hegemons, and it is to America's advantage to shift this responsibility to them. In a multipolar world, the United States could be confident that effective balancing ultimately would occur because, to ensure their survival, other states have an incentive to balance against geographically proximate rivals, and great powers do not "bandwagon"--that is, they do not align with threatening, would-be hegemons.__ __Because of its geographic position, the United States__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> generally </span>__can stand aloof from security competitions and engage in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> strategic </span>__"buck passing,"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thereby </span>__forcing others to assume the risks and costs of balancing against threatening great powers__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__When an offshore balancer shifts__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to others the </span>__dangers entailed by "going first," it can reasonably hope that it will be able to avoid__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> being drawn into </span>__war__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The strategy of preponderance commits the United States to alliance relationships that run counter to geostrategic logic: it imposes the greatest burden (in terms of danger and cost) on the alliance partner (the United States) whose security is least at risk. An offshore balancing strategy, therefore, would reverse this pattern of alliance relations. </span>__There is no inherent reason why the United States should be compelled to bear the high costs of providing security for other states__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Japan and Western Europe__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for example, long </span>__have possessed the economic and technological capabilities to defend themselves__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But the strategy of </span>__preponderance__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (notwithstanding U.S. complaints about burden-sharing inequities) </span>__has actively discouraged them from doing so because American policymakers fear__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> any </span>__diminution of U.S. control over the international system (including__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> control over </span>__U.S. allies__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) would have adverse geopolitical consequences. Washington has decided that it is more preferable strategically for the United States to defend Germany and Japan than it is for Germany and Japan to defend themselves. In contrast, </span>__offshore balancing would rest on the assumption that America's overall strategic position would be enhanced by devolving to others the responsibility for their own defense.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Strategic Consequences of Economic Openness The strategy of preponderance incorporates contradictory assumptions about the importance of relative power. On the one hand, the strategy seeks to maximize America's military power by perpetuating its role as the predominant great power in the international system. Yet, the strategy's economic dimension is curiously indifferent to the security implications of the redistribution of power in the international political system resulting from economic interdependence. Nor does the strategy resolve the following conundrum: </span>__given that economic power is the foundation of military strength, how will the United States be able to retain its hegemonic position in the international political system if its relative economic power continues to decline?__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In purely economic terms, </span>__an open international economic system may have positive effects. But economics does not take place in a political vacuum. Strategically, economic openness has adverse consequences: it contributes to, and accelerates, a redistribution of relative power among states__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the international system </span>__(allowing rising competitors to catch up to the United States__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more quickly than they otherwise would). </span>__This leads to the emergence of new great powers. The resulting "power transition," which occurs as a dominant power declines and new challengers arise, usually climaxes in great power wars__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 24 Because </span>__great power emergence is driven by uneven growth rates__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (that is, some states are growing faster economically than others), </span>__there is little, short of preventive war, that the United States can do to prevent the rise of new great powers__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But </span>__U.S. grand strategy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, to some extent, </span>__can affect both the pace and the magnitude of America's relative power decline__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.  </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">America’s Forward Deployed military presence relies on a strategy of Unipolarity – which will inevitably collapse due to overstretch. We must begin transitioning away from unipolar primacy soon so that we can control the shape of the transition </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Layne, 2006- Senior Research Fellow at the CATO Institute.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to Present) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-right: .15in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.2pt;">At the same time, </span>__<span style="letter-spacing: -0.2pt;">it doubtless is true that</span>__ __<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">it will take some time for others’ balancing efforts to realize their intended</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">outcome. </span>__Although the United States__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, contrary’ to my 1993 prediction, probably will not he challenged by great power rivals as early as 2010,<span style="letter-spacing: -.1pt;"> it is even more</span> </span>__<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">doubtful that U.S. hegemony will endure</span>__ __<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">until the early 2030s</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">.</span> __<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">Is it worthwhile paying the price to hang onto unipolarity for, at best, another two decades?</span>____<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;"> Given that American hegemony’ is destined</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.1pt;"> to </span>__end sooner rather than later and that the costs of trying to “shape the international system” to America’s__ __liking will rise__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (even as the benefits of doing so diminish), </span>__it would make more sense grand strategically for the__ __<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">United States to retrench and husband its resources for the long haul.</span>__ __<span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">The United States can do this by adopting an</span>__ __offshore balancing grand strategy.__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Contention 4: Environment </span>= 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">US bases in Okinawa are killing the biodiversity in the ocean—over 1000 different species </span></span>**
= = 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Shaw, Jeff 03 </span>**(Writer of The Environmental Magazine, http://www.grist.org/article/the22/)
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Every year, scuba divers make tens of thousands of excursions into the waters off Okinawa, Japan, drawn by the spectacular array of sea life on display. Soon, though, that sea life may be blasted out of the water by an unwelcome sonic barrage.Almost everywhere in the world except in this patch of ocean, denizens of the deep won a reprieve this month, when a court agreement between environmental organizations and the U.S. Navy limited the military's use of low-frequency active sonar</span> __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(LFAS).</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Experts contend that the sonar, which uses high-intensity bursts of sound to track submarines, __is deadly for__ marine mammals and other __sea life__. Under the terms of the agreement</span>, __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">use of the technology is now restricted</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">to East Asia, including portions of the Sea of Japan, Philippine Sea, South China Sea, and East China Sea -- meaning the Navy may soon visit earsplitting noises on endangered animals in Okinawa's peaceful waters.Joel Reynolds, director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's Marine Mammal Protection Project, calls the recent settlement "a major step forward" toward protecting marine life and a measure of protection "against the proliferation of sonar around the world." He's right -- but</span> __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">however important the settlement is, it is just a step</span>__. <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">And this incomplete victory comes at great cost for threatened species in an ecologically significant part of the world</span>."__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The waters off of Okinawa are some of the richest in biodiversity in the world</span>__," <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">says Peter Galvin, Pacific director for the Arizona-based Center for Biological Diversity.</span> "__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It's been described as the Galapagos of the East, and it's under siege</span>__."That rhetoric isn't hyperbole: Okinawa supports a dizzying variety of marine species. __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The island's coral reefs rank behind only Australia's Great Barrier Reef in terms of ecological diversity, sustaining more than 1,000 types of fish and a host of other spectacular wildlife</span>__. <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">One prime example is the critically endangered Okinawa dugong, a manatee-like creature that holds a special place in local culture because it is traditionally regarded as a messenger from the sea gods. Only about 50 of these animals remain alive today in the waters off Okinawa. Any new threat could push this unique dugong population over the brink to extinction."We're very concerned about impacts to the fragile dugong population," Galvin says. "</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">There's every reason to believe that these sonar impacts are across the marine mammal spectrum. That's what the science shows</span>__."<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">While no study has found that low-frequency sonar threatens the dugong particularly, the risks posed by the technology to other marine mammals are well documented. The sonar can boom out a signal reaching 215 decibels -- as loud as an F-15 fighter plane at takeoff.</span> __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">In the acoustic environment of the ocean, this deafening roar can cause stress and severe physical harm to sea life</span>__, <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">including marine mammals such as the humpback whales that use the East China Sea for breeding and migratory grounds.Species like whales and dolphins that communicate with sound face a distinct risk, but it's not just marine mammals that are affected. Compelling evidence shows that sonar can also be deadly for sharks, fish, and endangered sea turtles, at least three species of which exist off the coast of Okinawa.When U.S. Magistrate Judge Elizabeth Laporte issued the initial injunction prohibiting use of the sonar in October 2002, she cited the threat to turtles specifically. Laporte wrote that "endangered species, such as sea turtles, will ... be in LFA sonar's path" and that the sonar risked causing "irreparable harm to the marine environment that supports the existence of these species." The hawksbill, loggerhead, and green sea turtle are all included on the United States' Endangered Species List as well as the global Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species. All are found in Asian waters, and all lay their eggs on Okinawan beaches.These facts point to one inescapable conclusion</span>: __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">This is not the place to deploy an invasive, noisy, and ecologically devastating technology. "This will affect the wildlife around Okinawa very severely, but it will also affect the entire area</span>__, <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">from Indonesia to Sakhalin," says Chalmers Johnson, head of the Japan Policy Research Institute.If these seas are so important and sensitive, why were they chosen as the sacrifice area? The nations whose waters will be affected had no role in the court settlement negotiations. Talks between the Navy and environmental groups "were conducted under a veil of confidentiality," says Reynolds of NRDC, so it's impossible to say with certainty how this arrangement was reached.It isn't too hard to make an educated guess, though. Okinawa is already home to a huge U.S. military presence, so making the surrounding seas a training ground is convenient for the Navy. Moreover, because of a vexing dual colonialism, Okinawa is largely powerless to resist.Though legally part of Japan, Okinawa's ethnically and culturally distinct people are often looked down upon by mainland Japanese. Okinawa is further politically isolated by its status as Japan's poorest prefecture and by the lack of a shared history with the rest of the country. (Okinawa's islands were part of the independent Kingdom of the Ryukyus until they were annexed in the 19th century.)The U.S. military has been all too willing to exploit Tokyo's reluctance to stand up for Okinawa. The tiny island chain has been forced to house 75 percent of Japan's American military bases -- though all of the Okinawan islands put together comprise just six-tenths of one percent of Japan's territory. Okinawa bears the resultant burdens, including pollution on land and at sea.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">J</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">ohnson, one of the foremost Asia scholars in the U.S., says he isn't surprised the same technology that raised an outcry when used in Puget Sound is being shipped to the North Pacific instead. "This seems like typical Navy racism," he says flatly.The outcome also raises uncomfortable questions about U.S. environmental groups' right to decide the fate of Okinawa's ocean life. If LFAS is a real threat to marine natural resources, as almost every credible scientist seems to believe, then shifting its use to a place most Americans don't see smacks of environmental racism.Still, it is difficult to fault NRDC and the five other plaintiffs in the lawsuit for settling; after all, the global environment is better off for it. Indeed, under the settlement agreement, less than 1 percent of the world's oceans faces the disruption and death caused by LFAS, as opposed to about 75 percent. The settlement also adds seasonal restrictions to sonar tests and limits sonar use near the coastline. "[The plaintiffs] probably thought [the agreement] was the best they could do," Johnson says. Probably -- but the bottom line is that an impoverished and oppressed sea-based culture takes the fall to protect the environment elsewhere.Moreover, without vigilance, other seas may share East Asia's burden. Taking advantage of their elevated status in today's security-conscious environment, the U.S. military is asking Congress to exempt it from the Endangered Species Act and Marine Mammal Protection Act. This legislative end run would circumvent the court's ruling on sonar and enable what Galvin calls "a full-scale assault on environmental law.""The overall context to keep in mind is that the military is trying to exempt itself from these requirements all around," says Galvin. "The military is talking out of both sides of their mouths, signing this settlement at the same time that they're asking to be exempted from all environmental protections."Facts haven't gotten in the way of the military's push. Even former U.S. EPA Administrator Christie Whitman admitted before Congress that she couldn't come up with one example of environmental regulations that prevented the military from carrying out its duties. Still, Congress is considering granting these wide-ranging exemptions, which would gut two flagship environmental laws and effectively reverse every victory the new settlement</span> secured.__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Now is a pivotal time for developing a real solution for seas around Okinawa and the world</span>__. __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The first step is to defeat these exemptions</span>__, <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">which Johnson calls "attempts to establish the military as a force beyond the law that can do whatever it damn well pleases." The second is to prevent Okinawa and the rest of East Asia from becoming the world's environmental whipping boy.NRDC, Reynolds promises, "absolutely" plans to reach out to Japanese and Okinawan environmental groups as part of an international effort. If that happens, and this agreement is followed by a policy that protects oceans everywhere -- with no exceptions -- from acoustic assault, then the work leading up to the settlement will have been worthwhile.If not, this agreement represents at best a holding pattern, and at worst, a Faustian bargain. If Puget Sound deserves to be free of low-frequency sonar, then so does the East China Sea</span>.
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The US military is firing depleting uranium shells into the ocean, devastating the coral reefs and the environment </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Genuine Security</span></span><span style="color: black;"> [“</span>Okinawa: Effects of long-term US Military presence” Okinawa: Effects of long-term US Military presence, [[http://www.genuinesecurity.org/partners/report/Okinawa.pdf]], pg. 5]<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Regular training exercises using live ammunition have caused forest fires, soil erosion, earth tremors, and accidents. In 1996, U.S. Marines fired depleted uranium shells into the ocean. The U.S. military defines this as a conventional weapon, but, officially, they are not allowed to fire depleted uranium in Japan. </span></span>White Beach, a docking area in Okinawa for U.S. nuclear submarines, is an area where <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">regional health statistics show comparatively high rates of leukemia in children and cancers in adults</span></span>. In 1998, for example, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">two women from the White Beach area who had been in the habit of gathering shellfish and seaweed there died of liver cancer.</span></span> Also local people are affected, sometimes killed, in traffic accidents caused by U.S. troops. In October 1998, for example, a U.S. Marine killed a young woman in a hit-and-run accident.<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;"> Under the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA, Article 4), </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the U.S. is not responsible for environmental clean-up of land or water</span></span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;">. As in Korea and the Philippines, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">host communities do not have adequate information on the extent of military contamination. </span></span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;">The Japanese government does not release information about it. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">After the incident with the depleted uranium shells</span></span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;"> mentioned above, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the U.S. government must inform local officials about military operations, but Okinawan people doubt that this is really working</span></span><span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;">. </span></span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Coral reef loss creates a chain reaction of species loss, political instability, food insecurity and poverty. </span></span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Red Orbit 10 </span></span>(Staff Writer March 26 2010 Coral Reef Extinction Could Have Catastrophic Effect) [[http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/index.html]]<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Were that to occur, the results could be catastrophic<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">. Coral reefs are</span></span> eaten or inhabited <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">by many of the oceanic fish population, which in</span></span> turn provide <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">a food or income source for an estimated one-billion people around the world</span></span>. In addition <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">to hunger and poverty, some predict that severe political unrest could also result, should the coral reef actually become extinct.</span></span>"You could argue that a complete collapse of the marine ecosystem would be one of the consequences of losing corals," Carpenter told Brian Skoloff of the AP on Thursday. "You're going to have a tremendous cascade effect for all life in the oceans.""<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Whole nations will be threatened in terms of their existence</span></span>," added Carl Gustaf Lundin of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature. According to Skoloff, "Experts say cutting back on carbon emissions to arrest rising sea temperatures and acidification of the water, declaring some reefs off limits to fishing and diving, and controlling coastal development and pollution could help reverse, or at least stall, the tide."Such measures have met with resistance, however. Earlier this week, in fact, a proposed set of restrictions on the trade of coral species was rejected by the member nations of the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Failing to establish such regulations, however, could create a chain effect that could wipe out other seagoing species, such as grouper, snapper, oysters, and clams, and destroy a fishing industry that directly employs at least 38 million individuals worldwide.</span></span>"Fish will become a luxury good," Cassandra deYoung of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization told Skoloff. "You already have a billion people who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> </span></span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Food insecurity triggers genocidal wars threatening survival—our evidence indicates that it’s comparatively worse than nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Trudell 5 - Trudell, J.D. Candidate 2006, 05 </span>**(Robert H., Fall, Food Security Emergencies And The Power Of Eminent Domain: A Domestic Legal Tool To Treat A Global Problem, 33 Syracuse J. Int'l L. & Com. 277, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">2. But, Is It Really an Emergency? In his study on environmental change and security, J.R. McNeill dismisses the scenario where environmental degradation destabilizes an area so much that "security problems and ... resource scarcity may lead to war." 101 McNeill finds such a proposition to be a weak one, largely because history has shown society is always able to stay ahead of widespread calamity due, in part, to the slow pace of any major environmental change. 102 This may be so. However, as the events in </span>__Rwanda illustrated, the environment can breakdown quite rapidly__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">- almost before one's eyes - </span>__when food insecurity drives people to overextend their cropland and to use outmoded agricultural practices__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. 103 Furthermore, </span>__as Andre and Platteau documented__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">in their study of Rwandan society, </span>__overpopulation and land scarcity can contribute to a breakdown of society itself__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. 104 Mr. McNeill's assertion closely resembles those of many critics of Malthus. 105 The general argument is: whatever issue we face (e.g., environmental change or overpopulation), it will be introduced at such a pace that we can face the problem long before any calamity sets in. 106 This wait-and-see view relies on many factors, not least of which are a functioning society and innovations in agricultural productivity. But, today, with up to 300,000 child soldiers fighting in conflicts or wars, and perpetrating terrorist acts, </span>__the very fabric of society is under increasing world-wide pressure.__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">107 </span>__Genocide, anarchy, dictatorships, and war are endemic throughout Africa; it__ __is a troubled continent whose problems threaten global security and challenge all of humanity__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. 108 As [*292] Juan Somavia, secretary general of the World Social Summit, said: </span>__"We've replaced the threat of the nuclear bomb with the threat of a social bomb__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">." 109 </span>__Food insecurity is part of the fuse burning to set that bomb off. It is an emergency and we must put that fuse out before it is too late__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span>


Biodiversity loss solves earth-life
<span class="cite">Tonn</span>, Urban Planning Prof @ Tennessee, <span class="cite">07</span> <span style="font-weight: normal;">(Bruce E. Tonn, Futures v. 39, no. 9, “Futures Sustainability”, ln)</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">The first principle is the most important because <span class="underline0">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">earth-life is needed to support earth-life.</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span class="underline0">Ecosystems are composed of countless species that are mutually dependent upon each other for nutrients directly as food or as by-products of earth-life </span></span>**(e.g., as carbon dioxide and oxygen). <span class="underline0">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">If</span>**</span> the <span class="underline0">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">biodiversity of an ecosystem is</span>** </span>substantially <span class="underline0">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">compromised</span>**</span>, then <span class="underline0">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the entire system could collapse</span>**</span> due to destructive negative nutrient cycle feedback effects. <span class="underline0">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">If </span>**</span>enough <span class="underline0">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">ecosystems collapse worldwide</span>**</span>, then <span class="underline0">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the cascading impact on global nutrient cycles could lead to</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">catastrophic species extinction</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">.</span>** Thus**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">, <span class="underline0">to ensure</span></span>** the <span class="underline0">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">survival of earth-life</span>**</span> into the distant future the earth's<span class="underline0"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">biodiversity must be protected</span>**</span>.</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="color: #4f81bd;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="color: #4f81bd;"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="color: #4f81bd;"> </span></span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]