[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Restorative Justice Aff=== 
I affirm.
The resolution requires criminal justice reform because the present system sentences juveniles and adult differently. Any affirmation of the resolution therefore proposes reform. A reform aff is still T as long as it complies with the textual burdens of the resolution: juveniles charged with violent felonies must be treated as adults within a justice system. However, said treatment need not be consistent with the status quo as long as it is the same as adults.
Ought is defined as moral obligation
I value morality
Self-Sanctions are key to morality—external sanctions are weak because immoral acts can go undetected but agent always control their own conduct
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bandura 91</span></span>—(Albert Bandura, professor at Stanford University, Social cognitive theory of moral thought and action. In W. M. Kurtines & J. L. Gewirtz (Eds.), //Handbook of moral behavior and development// (Vol. 1, pp. 45-103), 1991)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Human <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">morality</span> is an issue of considerable import both individually and collectively. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Internalization of a set of standards is integral</span> to the achievement of self-directedness and a sense of continuity and purpose in one's everyday life. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">In the absence of personal standards and</span> the exercise of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">self-regulatory influence, people would behave like weathervanes</span>, constantly <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">shifting</span> direction to conform with whatever is expedient at a given moment</span></span>. A shared <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">morality</span></span>, of course, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">is vital to the humane functioning of any society</span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Many <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">forms of behavior are personally advantageous but</span> are <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">detrimental to others</span> or infringe on their rights. </span></span>Without some consensual moral codes people would disregard each others' rights and welfare whenever their desires come into social conflict. Societal codes and sanctions articulate collective moral imperatives as well as influence social conduct. However<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">external sanctions are</span> relatively <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">weak deterrents because most transgressive acts can go undetected. But people continuously preside over their own conduct in countless situations</span> presenting little or no external threat</span></span>. So <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">the exercise of self-sanction must play a central role in the regulation of moral conduct. Self- regulatory mechanisms form an integral</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">part of </span>the conception of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">moral agency </span>presented in this chapter. </span></span>

Social consent and reasoning create the self-sanctions necessary for moral agency—arousing empathy for the victim fosters self-restraint. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bandura 2</span> </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Studies of socialization practices show that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">social sanctions combined with reasoning foster self-restraints better than do sanctions alone</span></span></span> (Parke, 1974; Sears, Maccoby, & Levin, 1957). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">reasoning that</span> is especially conducive to development of self-regulatory capabilities <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">appeals to</span></span></span> behavioral standards and to <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">empathetic concern for the</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> adverse <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">effects that</span> detrimental <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">conduct inflicts on others</span></span></span> (Bandura & Walters, 1959; Hoffman, 1977; Perry & Bussey, 1984). Discipline that is used as an occasion for explaining rules of conduct is more effective in instilling a generalized self-regulatory capability than if a specific act is simply punished (LaVoie, 1974). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Coercive threat may extract situational compliance, but cognitive guides provide a basis for regulating future conduct under changing circumstances. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The social consequences that transgressors might bring on themselves through their actions do not materialize if they avoid detection. But the injury and suffering such actions cause others occur regardless of whether or not the wrongdoer is discovered</span>.</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Thoughts of punishing consequences gain force through self-interest. However, if the punishment is seen as avoidable or easily tolerable, it may be less restraining than concerns over possible injuries to others. There is some evidence that negative sanctions accompanied by reasons arousing empathy for the victims tend to promote stronger self-restraints than those that try to impress on wrongdoers that their conduct is likely to bring negative consequences to themselves (Walters & Grusec, 1977).</span> <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The effectiveness of appeals to empathy increases with age</span></span> (<span style="font-size: 6pt;">LaVoie, 1974). Qualitative differences in the use of reasoning are evident when comparing families of aggressively antisocial and prosocial adolescents (Bandura & Walters, 1959). The former families emphasize the punishments misconduct can bring one, the latter families stress the injury and suffering misconduct inflicts on others. The extent to which the influence of social sanctions is enhanced by reasoning depends on its content and on a person's cognitive capabilities</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Appealing to abstractions is likely to be lost on young children who lack the experience to comprehend them. They are swayed more by reasons centered on the tangible consequences of misdeeds than on abstract rules</span></span> (Parke, 1974). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">As children gain social experience and knowledge about what is right, they become more responsive to abstract appeals to rules and moral directives</span></span> (Cheyne & Walters, 1970; LaVoie, 1974).
Exposure to social experience and knowledge through empathy builds capacity for moral awareness in juveniles and adults both. Moral awareness is key the meta-ethic of self-restraint.
Thus, the standard is maintaining moral awareness
Prefer the standard because, 
1. Disengagement causes moral harm; morally aware agents who understand the effects of their actions do not commit moral harms
<span class="Author-Date">Bandura 3 </span>
Additional ways of weakening self-deterring reactions operate through disregard or misrepresentation of the consequences of action. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">When people choose</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> to pursue <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">activities harmful to others</span> for personal gain, or because of social inducements, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">they avoid facing</span> the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">harm</span> they cause or they minimize it</span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">They</span></span> readily recall prior information given them about the potential benefits of the behavior but <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">are less able to remember its harmful effects</span></span> (Brock & Buss, 1962, 1964). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">People are especially prone to minimize injurious effects when they act alone and, thus, cannot easily escape responsibility</span></span> (Mynatt & Herman, 1975). In addition to selective inattention and cognitive distortion of effects, the misrepresentation may involve active efforts to discredit evidence of the harm they cause. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">As long as the detrimental results of one's conduct are ignored</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, minimized, distorted, or disbelieved, there is little reason for self-censure to be activated. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">It is relatively easy to hurt others</span> when their suffering is not visible and when causal actions are physically and temporally remote from their effects</span></span>. Our <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">death technologies have become highly lethal and depersonalized. Mechanized weapon systems and explosive devices in which many people can be put to death by destructive forces unleashed remotely, illustrates such depersonalized action</span></span>. Even high personal responsibility is a weak restrainer when aggressors do not know the harm they inflict on their victims (Tilker, 1970). In contrast, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">when people can see and hear the suffering they cause</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, vicariously aroused distress and self-censure <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">serve as self- restraining influences</span>. For example, in his studies of commanded aggression</span></span>, Milgram (1974) <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">obtained diminishing obedience as the victims' pain became more evident and personalized </span></span>
2. Moral agency exists at all ages—the only change is the complexity of an agents moral standards. Juveniles are aware of moral standards at the individual level and expand their moral awareness as they are exposed to broader social situations and institutions
<span class="Author-Date">Bandura 4 </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">There are</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> some</span></span> culturally <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">universal features to</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> the developmental changes of standards of conduct and the locus of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">moral agency</span></span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">These</span></span> commonalities <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">arise from basic uniformities in the types of biopsychosocial changes that occur with increasing age in all cultures. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Growth</span> of personal competencies <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">and increasing autonomy alter</span> the types of morally relevant situations with which <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the growing child</span> must contend <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">and the social structures</span> within which these transactions take place</span></span>. A <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">broadening social reality <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">changes the nature of the moral concerns</span> as well as the social sanctions <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">for transgressive conduct</span></span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Expanding moral choices require more </span></span>generalized<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> and complex moral standards. </span></span>Change in reasoning from concrete to more abstract form with maturation and experience is also a natural order of development that all theories acknowledge<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">. No one would contend that young children begin as sophisticated reasoners and become progressively more simple minded as they mature. Nor do <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">young children</span> recognize the prescripts of the social system before they <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">recognize the prescripts of their immediate caretakers or companions</span>. Another</span></span> obvious <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">natural order of development involves a broadening of perspective from individual to institutional prescripts</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> for promoting human well-bein</span></span>g. Change from external regulation to increasing autonomy and self-regulation is still another natural order of development.
This is sufficient to affirm, juveniles are moral agents meaning they are morally responsible for their actions
3. Moral disengagement causes dehumanization—this type of mindset justifies the brutalization of impacts—root cause of potential NC harms , this is reason to maintain moral awareness
<span class="Author-Date">Bandura 5 </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The final set of disengagement practices operates on the recipients of detrimental acts</span></span>. The strength of self-evaluative reactions to injurious conduct partly depends on how the perpetrators view the people toward whom the behavior is directed. To perceive another as human activates empathetic or vicarious emotional reactions through perceived similarity (Bandura, 1989b). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The joys and suffering of similar persons are more vicariously arousing than are those of strangers or individuals who have been divested of human qualities. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Personalizing the injurious effects experienced by others also makes their suffering much more salient</span></span></span>. It is difficult to mistreat humanized persons without risking personal distress and self-censure. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Vicarious emotional activation is cognitively mediated rather than automatically elicited by the experiences of others. Ascriptions of insensateness to victims weakens vicarious self-arousal of distress to their suffering. People are unmoved by "unfeeling" recipients of maltreatment. Subhumans are not only regarded as lacking sensitivities, but as being influenceable only by severe methods. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Self-sanctions</span> against cruel conduct <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">can be disengaged</span> or blunted by divesting people of human qualities. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Once dehumanized, they are no longer viewed as persons with feelings, hopes, and concerns but as subhuman objects</span></span></span>. They are portrayed as mindless "savages," "gooks," "satanic fiends," and the other despicable wretches. If dispossessing antagonists of humanness does not blunt self-reproof, it can be eliminated by attributing bestial qualities to them. They become "degenerates," "pigs," and other bestial creatures. It is easier to brutalize victims when they are referred to as "worms" (Gibson & Haritos-Fatouros, 1986). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The process of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">dehumanization is an essential ingredient in the perpetration of inhumanities</span></span></span>. A Nazi camp commandant chillingly explained that the extreme lengths to which they went to degrade victims they were going to kill anyway was not a matter of purposeless cruelty (Levi, 1987). Rather, the victims had to be degraded to the point of subhuman objects so that those who operated the gas chambers would be less burdened by distress. Over the years slaves, women, manual laborers, and religious and racial minorities have been treated as chattel or as subhuman objects (Ball- Rokeach, 1972).
4. This moral disengagement leads to the dehumanization and punitive exclusion of out groups like juveniles. Vote aff to stop the exclusion of the out-group from society through moral awareness.
<span class="Author-Date">Bandura 6 </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">When persons are given punitive power, they treat dehumanized individuals much more punitively than those who have been invested with human qualities</span></span> (Figure 5). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Dehumanization fosters different self-exonerative patterns of thought</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Bandura, Underwood, & Fromson, 1975). People seldom condemn punitive conduct and they create justifications for it when they direct it toward individuals who have been deprived of their humanness. However, people strongly disapprove of punitive actions and rarely excuse their use toward individuals depicted in humanized terms. When several disengagement factors are combined, they potentiate each other rather than simply produce additive effects.Thus, combining diffused responsibility with dehumanization greatly escalates the level of punitiveness, whereas personalization of responsibility, along with humanization, have a powerful self-deterring effect (Figure 6). Many conditions of contemporary life are conducive to impersonalization and dehumanization (Bernard, Ottenberg, & Redl, 1965). Bureaucratization, automation, urbanization, and high geographical mobility lead people to relate to each other in anonymous, impersonal ways. In addition,</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">so</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">cial practices that divide people into ingroup and outgroup members</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">produce human estrangement that fosters dehumanization.</span> Strangers can be more easily cast as insensate than can personal acquaintances. Under certain conditions, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the exercise of institutional power changes the users in ways that are conducive to dehumanization. This happens most often when</span> persons in positions of authority have coercive power over others and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">adequate safeguards for constraining the behavior of powerholders are lacking</span></span></span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Powerholders come to devalue those over whom they wield control (Kipnis, 1974). In a simulated prison experiment (Haney, Banks, & Zimbardo, 1973), even college students, who had been randomly chosen to serve as either inmates or guards given unilateral power, began to treat their charges in degrading, tyrannical ways as guards. Thus, role assignment that authorizes use of coercive power overrode personal characteristics in promoting punitive conduct. Systematic tests of relative influences similarly show that social influences conducive to punitiveness exert considerably greater sway over aggressive conduct than do people's personal characteristics (Larsen, Coleman, Forges, & Johnson, 1971). </span>
5. Blaming other variables for action is a form of moral disengagement
<span class="Author-Date">Bandura 7 </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Imputing blame to one's antagonists or to environmental circumstances is still another expedient that can serve self-exonerative purposes</span></span>. In this process, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">people view themselves as faultless victims and their detrimental conduct as compelled by forcible provocation. Detrimental interactions usually involve a series of reciprocally escalative actions, in which the antagonists are rarely faultless. One can always select from the chain of events an instance of the adversary's defensive behavior and consider it as the original instigation. Injurious conduct thus becomes a justifiable defensive reaction to belligerent provocations</span></span>. Those who are victimized are not entirely faultless because, by their behavior, they usually contribute at least partly to their own plight. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Victims can, therefore, be blamed for bringing suffering on themselves</span></span>. Self- <span style="font-size: 6pt;">exoneration is similarly achievable by viewing one's destructive conduct as forced by circumstances rather than as a personal decision. By blaming others or circumstances, not only are one's own actions excusable but one can even feel self-righteous in the process. Observers of victimization can be disinhibited in much the same way as perpetrators are by the tendency to infer culpability from misfortune. Seeing victims suffer maltreatment for which they are held partly responsible leads observers to derogate them (Lerner & Miller, 1978</span>). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The devaluation and indignation aroused by ascribed culpability, in turn, provides moral justification for even greater maltreatment. That attribution of blame can give rise to devaluation and moral justification illustrates how the various disengagement mechanisms are often interrelated and work together in weakening internal control. </span></span>

But, under this framework, not all sanctions are the same. Government attempts to guide this development comes before failures to fulfill it or actions of individual agents because we are only responsible for actions we intend to cause rather than ones we allow to occur. Intervening actors or circumstances could have prevented the harms we omit from stopping, meaning the blood is not on our hands. Further, we cannot know with certainty what other agents will do, whereas we have absolute control over our intentions. Even if we can weigh those probabilities, their system always creates a gamble with summing worth, whereas mine ensures consistent application. While governments may create permissions and prohibitions when regulating third parties, it only regulates itself when choosing to pass a policy about state-provided rights, so this example is disanalogous.[[#_GoBack]]

I contend that in the United States, children charged with violent felonies ought to be treated as adults in a reformed criminal justice system consistent with a restorative justice paradigm. This includes an individualized approach including mediated interactions between the victim and offender. I reserve the right to clarify in the 1AR, absent neg clarification in Cross-X. 

Sub Point A is Crime 
1. The restorative process functions as moral education, the offender becomes morally aware of the impact of their crime. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Garvey 03</span></span>—(Stephen P. Garvey, Professor of Law Cornell School, Restorative Justice, Punishment and Atonement, Utah Law Review, 2003, http://privateweb.law.utah.edu/_webfiles/academic/journals/utahlawreview/2003_1/09Garvey.pdf)
My claim here is that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">when <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a restorative justice conference</span> is said to work</span></span>, it’s said to work because <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">it <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">achieves atonement</span></span></span>, or at least starts the process rolling. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Perhaps the most distinctive feature of the processes associated with restorative justice is, as I’ve mentioned, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the face-to-face encounter</span> between the offender and the victim</span></span>. Together with their accompanying communities of care, as well as other stakeholders, the victim and offender meet as fellow human beings sharing a common humanity. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Their dialogue and interactions are not mediated through formal legal rules or structures. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Victim and offender speak to one another directly</span>, not through lawyers. There is no judge, only a mediator or facilitator, whose main job is to ensure that the exchange remains within the boundaries of mutual respect <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">When this process works</span> as it should, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">it brings home to the offender in painful detail the full measure of the injury he has caused</span>. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">He comes to see his victim as a human being with standing equal to his own.</span> The guilt he formally acknowledged before the restorative process began hits home. Not only does he acknowledge it cognitively, he also experiences it affectively. 40 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The processes</span> associated <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">with restorative justice</span> therefore function ideally as m<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">echanisms of moral education</span></span></span>. 41 <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">They bring an offender to understand</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> and appreciate <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the full measure of the damage he has caused</span>, both material and moral; enable him to overcome mechanisms of defense and denial; and teach him what he must do to make amends and gain readmission into the community as a member in good standing.</span></span>

2. This solves better. A meta-analysis of every relevant study from the last 25 years proves that victims are more satisfied with restorative justice than other forms of treatment. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Latimer 01</span></span>—(Jeff Latimer, Craig Dowden, Danielle Muise. “The Effectiveness of Restorative Justice Practices: A Meta-Analysis.” Department of Justice Canada – Research and Stats Division. 2001.)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The overall </span></span>mean <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">effect</span></span> size for the 13 tests of <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">treatment </span></span>that explored the impact <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">restorative justice programming</span></span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">on victim satisfaction was</span></span> +0.19 <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">(+<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">19%)</span></span></span> (SD=.18) <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">with a 95 percent confidence</span></span> of +0.30 to +0.08 (see Figure 1). Although the effect sizes ranged from +0.44 to -0.19, the latter was the only negative value found in the distribution. In other words, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">participation in a restorative justice program resulted in higher victim satisfaction</span></span> ratings when compared to a comparison group in all but one of the 13 programs examined. It should be noted that the one negative result was found in the only program that operated at the post-sentence (or corrections) entry point. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Compared to victims who participated in the traditional justice system, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">victims who participated in restorative processes were significantly more satisfied</span></span></span> (t (12) = 3.89, p < 0.01). 

3. And, this also comparatively minimizes recidivism. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Latimer continues</span></span> (Jeff Latimer, Craig Dowden, Danielle Muise. “The Effectiveness of Restorative Justice Practices: A Meta-Analysis.” Department of Justice Canada – Research and Stats Division. 2001.)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The overall mean effect size for the 32 tests</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that examined the effectiveness of restorative justice programming </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">in reducing offender recidivism was</span></span> <span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">+0.07 </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">(+7%)</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (SD=.13) </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">with a 95 percent confidence</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> interval of +0.12 to +0.02. Although the effect sizes ranged from +0.38 to -0.23, more than two thirds of the effect sizes were positive (72%). In other words, </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">restorative justice programs,</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> on average, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">yielded reductions in recidivism compared to non-restorative approaches to criminal behaviour</span></span></span>__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">.</span>__<span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In fact, </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">compared to</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the comparison/ control </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">groups that did not participate in a restorative justice</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> program, </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">offenders in the treatment groups were significantly more successful during the followup periods</span> </span>(t (31) = 2.88, p < 0.01). 

4. Restorative Justice controls the internal link into deterrence—conferences make people want to obey the law rather than fear it through this type of moral awareness. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Sherman 97</span></span>—(Restorative Justice and Deterring Crime, Professor Lawrence W Sherman is an Adjunct Professor of Law at the Research School of Social Sciences, Australian School of Criminology, 1997, http://dspace.anu.edu.au/bitstream/1885/41919/1/risepap4.html) 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The effect of criminal justice actions on repeat offending is arguably a result of two separate factors, called procedures and outcomes. </span></span>Jeremy<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> Bentham's </span></span>classical<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> approach to criminology placed the emphasis on outcomes, assuming that offenders are deterred by the fear of greater infliction of pain</span></span> from the state in the form of anything from a fine to capital punishment. French sociologist Emile Durkheim modified that view by suggesting that "<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">it is shame which doubles most punishments</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">", and that the real power of formal punishment is to invoke informal disgrace among family and friends</span></span>. More recently, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">social scientists</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> of law <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">have argued that the fairness of the procedures</span> may matter as much as or more than the actual punishment imposed.</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Listening to the offender's view</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">s, correcting errors of fact, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">and judging each offender by equal standards regardless of race, income, age or gender are</span> all <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">important elements affecting whether offenders respect the law</span></span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">That in turn may affect their attitude to obeying it</span></span>. In the report in this series entitled "Restorative Justice and Offenders' Respect for the Law", <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">conferences were shown to be superior to court on all these elements</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> of "procedural justice", which results in greater offender respect for the police, the justice system and the law itself.</span></span> The reason these findings of a deterrent effect are surprising is that they go beyond the theory of reintegrative shaming devised by ANU Professor John Braithwaite. It holds that offenders will be more likely to obey the law if shamed in a restorative way because that will make them want to be law-abiding. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The theory does not suggest that shaming will make offenders more fearful of sanctions, thus coercing them into obeying the law. The theory places far more emphasis on the procedures of shaming than on the outcome, which is traditionally associated with the fear of punishment. </span></span>
In order to deter crime, we must judge each offender by equal standards to ensure fair procedures, means the neg can never solve for deterrence. 




Sub Point B is Youth Suicide—Restorative Justice reduces risk of youth suicide by incorporating psychotherapy programs and solving recividism—a single referral to the juvenile justice system doubles the risk of suicide. 
<span class="Author-Date">Poulson 03</span><span class="CitesChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">—(Utah Law Review, Academic Journal, </span>[[http://privateweb.law.utah.edu/_webfiles/academic/journals/utahlawreview/2003_1/07Poulson.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 10pt;">) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">One outcome that is of paramount significance to all people is whether a person lives or dies. Doug Gray, a psychiatrist at the University of Utah, has taken special interest in this issue and has extensively researched adolescent suicide. In</span> <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">one major project</span></span>, 50 Gray and his <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">colleagues examined 151 youth suicides in Utah over a three-year period with</span></span> the <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">goals of identifying predictors of suicide risk and planning appropriate interventions</span></span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">51 This study looked at a wide range of readily available predictors of suicide (i.e., information that is routinely gathered and available from public records). Of the 151 Utah youths to commit suicide, 19% had been referred to child protective services for abuse, 24% tested positive by medical examiners office for substance use, 27% had been referred to a mental health agency, 27% were behind schedule for graduation from high school, 34% had been subject to some form of school discipline, such as suspension or dismissal, 39% were receiving educational support, and 40% had been participating in extracurricular activities. However</span>, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the largest percentage (63%) had been referred to the juvenile justice system</span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">A single encounter with the juvenile justice system doubled the odds of suicide for a youth</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(compared to nonreferred youths). Eight or more referrals led to a fivefold increase in the odds of suicide. The connection between juvenile offenses and suicide risk, while correlational, is shocking and significant. In another study, 52 Gray and his colleagues also provided a more in-depth look at the mental health of youths who were referred to juvenile court. 53 For one month they assessed the psychopathology for every person to be referred to the juvenile courts in Salt Lake City, Utah. They found that, overall, mental health was poor. Forty-nine percent of all adolescents (ages twelve to seventeen) referred to court had levels of psychopathology that would merit outpatient treatment; 17% had inpatient levels of psychopathology. For juveniles who had been referred eight or more times (the group at greatest risk of suicide), the levels of psychopathology were 66% and 27%, respectively</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Given the seriousness of youth suicide and the great risk faced by certain youth</span></span> (particularly repeat offenders), Gray and his colleagues are designing <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">an intervention for youth offenders with the goals of directly improving mental health and reducing recidivism.</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">54 By bearing directly on these two significant correlates of youth suicide, Gray and his colleagues are hoping to reduce the risk of suicide in the youth population overall. Where does restorative justice come into all of this</span>? <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Restorative justice decreases recidivism</span></span>. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Research by Nugent, Umbreit, Winnimaki, and Paddock showed that after one year, 19% of 619 participants in restorative justice reoffended, compared to 28% of 679 participants in non-restorative justice. 55 This difference represents a 32% reduction in recidivism (odds-ratio = 0.60, P 2 (1, N = 1298) = 14.50, p < .001). In another study, Nugent and Paddock also found that</span> <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">reoffenders who participated in restorative justice tended to commit less severe offenses than other offenders. 56 Inasmuch as participation in restorative justice is correlated with reduced recidivism and reduced recidivism, in turn, is correlated with decreased suicide risk, it seems reasonable to believe that participation in restorative justice may reduce suicide ris</span></span>k. This <span style="font-size: 6pt;">is, of course, conjecture. No studies have directly demonstrated the link between restorative justice and offender suicide. Still</span>, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the possibility is too important to overlook. This possibility may be pursued in at least two ways: (1) addressing severe mental health problems (including suicide) as potential outcomes to be assessed in future evaluations of restorative justice programs; and (2) involving restorative justice procedures in existing suicide and psychopathology prevention programs.</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Either alternative would help elucidate the potential connection between restorative justice and the very life of at-risk participants</span>







Sub Point C is Solvency 
A. A restorative justice approach co-opts the effective punitive measure of a retributive system and restructures them within the new paradigm—ensures greatest policy effectiveness
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Dignan 03</span></span>—(Jim Dignan, University of Sheffield, UK, Restorative Justice and the Law: the case for an integrated, systemic approach, 2003)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">If <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">restorative justice</span> is to furnish <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a more constructive alternative to the current repressive approach</span>, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">it will </span>be necessary to <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">reformulate the existing range of punishments so</span> that, as far as possible<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, every kind of penalty applies restorative justice principles</span> in the pursuit of restorative outcomes.</span></span> Some <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">existing forms of punishment are already geared</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> (in principle at least) towards the pursuit of broadly restorative outcomes</span></span> – notably <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">compensation orders and reparation orders</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">. At present, however, the way in which compensation works is far from ideal from a restorative perspective</span></span> (Cavadino et al., 1999: 175). <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Compensation orders are not always considered despite a statutory duty on courts to do so. And even when compensation is imposed, the duty to take the offender’s financial circumstances into account means that it may not represent the full amount that the victim has lost as a result of the crime, particularly where the offender has committed a number of offences with multiple victims. Moreover, the victim often has to wait a considerable time for any compensation to be paid, frequently in small sums according to the 23 24 means of the offender; and often having to go back to the court when instalments are missed. Furthermore, the kind of reparation that such penalties are capable of providing is inferior in many respects to the kind of reparation that might be expected to emanate from an appropriate restorative justice process. For example, it is far less flexible, is less likely to address the particular needs and sensitivities of the parties, and lacks the empowering potential that may ensue when victims and offenders are given the opportunity to participate actively in the offence resolution process. But in less serious cases that do not lend themselves to restorative justice processes for one reason or another, the use of a compensation (or reparation) order is nevertheless likely to result in a more constructive and restorative outcome than is likely to emanate from most other conventional forms of punishment, particularly if it is modified to take account of some of the operational shortcomings identified above.</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Another conventional form of punishment that could in principle be modified in pursuit of restorative outcomes is <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the fine.</span> This is not the case at present, since the revenue that is generated by fines is paid to the Treasury. But in principle it would be possible to strengthen the reparative potential of the fine.</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">One way of achieving this would be to develop closer links between the fine and the compensation order, which might also attend to some of the deficiencies that have already been noted. For example, the income from fines (and also from proceeds that are confiscated from convicted offenders) could be used to create a ‘Reparation Fund’ that would enable victims to be compensated immediately.22 The fund could then be reimbursed by the offender at whatever rate the court feels is appropriate after taking account of the offender’s financial circumstances. There is still an important distinction 24 25 between the fine, a financial compensation order that is imposed on an offender by the court, and a voluntary agreement on the part of an offender to make reparation (whether financial or non-financial) to a victim</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Although the latter is preferable, it is not always achievable and, in such cases, it would be consistent with the idea of restorative justice as a form of ‘replacement discourse’ to develop a much more explicit and transparent link between crimes which infringes the right and well-being of others, including the community at large, and the principle of reparation for such wrongs.</span></span>
B. Restorative justice is applicable to both juveniles and adult—treatment is the same and is equally effective. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Marshall 99</span></span>—(Tony F. Marshall, The Home Office Research and Development and Statistics Directorate, Restorative Justice: An Overview, http://rds.homeoffice.gov.uk/rds/pdfs/occ-resjus.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The issue of prioritisation raises the further issue of those cases where restorative approaches are most suitable. There has been a tendency for people to see them as less appropriate for serious offences, those committed by older people or by offenders with a record of crime. There is little basis for these views, however</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Mediation services, for instance, have been as successful with adults as with juveniles</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, and generally with recidivists as with fi rst-time offe n d e rs</span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">There is usually more at stake, and there fo re more to gain, in relation to seri o u s crimes</span></span>, and victim refer rals usually involve more serious of fences. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Mediation is just as likely to prove successful in serious cases as in minor ones</span></span> (although a higher proportion of victims may be unable or unwilling to take part). As stated above<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">, any limitation according to the type of offence or of fender could be against the interests of victims. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Limitation to minor crimes also reduces the cost-effectiveness of restorative measures</span>. New services may sensibly concentrate at ﬁrst on less serious cases as they acquire experience, but there are strong reasons for removing restrictions as skills and resources permit. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The success of restorative measures</span> is dependent on m o re personal considerations, such as parties’ attitudes, feelings, motivations and social situations, than on formal characteristics like age or legal offence.</span></span>



C. Always a risk that an integrated adult and juveniles restorative justice approach it solves better
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Marshall 99</span></span>—(Tony F. Marshall, The Home Office Research and Development and Statistics Directorate, Restorative Justice: An Overview, http://rds.homeoffice.gov.uk/rds/pdfs/occ-resjus.pdf)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Given the greater re sources needed to set up confe rences, there may be arguments for pri o ritising them in term s of their like ly usefulness (e.g. where there are indications of fa m i ly dysfunction or of continued offending), and victims who are not related to the offender may pre fer to take part in a simpler one-to-one meeting which focuses more cl e a r ly on their own needs, either instead of attending a confe rence</span></span> (which could still pro c e e d with the other members) or preceding it. (The new VOCS project in Inner London proposes to offer both s e rvices according to the circumstances of each case.) <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Conferencing is still a new technique in criminal justice and more experimentation is re q u i red</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">. The inclusion of the victim in particular makes it ve ry diffe rent from the kind of fa m i ly confe rence with which social wo rke rs in this country are more familiar</span></span> (especially for ch i l d p rotection issues; see, e.g. Lupton, 1998, who discusses fa m i ly group confe rences without once mentioning victims). In its combination of victim re s t o ration, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">offender re i n t e gration, individual participation and commu n i t y involvement, confe rencing might be seen as a Restora t i ve Justice process par ex c e l l e n c e, but it is debateabl e whether it is either practical or desirable to meet all these ends at one time in the majority of cases.</span></span> Conferencing is in operation in this country in the Thames Valley and Humberside police areas (police-run, in conjunction with a caution along the Au s t ralian model), Hampshire and Kent (inter-agency initiatives, with youth-justice leadership, the latter using pro fessional mediators from local community mediation serv i c e s ) , C h e s h i re (a Barn a rdos initiative) and Inner London (an inter-agency initiative using lay volunteer mediators ) . <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">While current conferencing projects are ex cl u s i ve ly for juvenile offe n d e rs, there is no reason why the same p rinciples cannot be applied to adults as well, as for victim-offender mediation</span></span> (see Bowen, 1997, on experimental work with adults in New Zealand; see also McElrea, 1994).
D. Restorative Justice is a paradigm shift—restructures and creates programs congruent with the restorative mindset
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Umbreit 07</span></span>—(Mark S. Umbreit, Ph.D., and Mark Carey, Deschutes County Community Corrections, Restorative Justice: Implications for Organizational Change, 2007, http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/nij/topics/courts/restorative-justice/organizational-change/implications.htm 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Perhaps <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the biggest mistake many organizations make</span> when attempting to adopt restorative justice principles is miscalculating what a restorative justice agency is. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Too often, restorative justice is viewed as a program</span></span></span>, such as victim-offender mediation or community work service, or seen as a politically correct way of naming the activities already in place in probation departments. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">As a result<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, real changes don't take place</span>. A new program is developed or an existing program is renamed and yet the desired outcomes are only achieved superficially, if at all. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Restorative justice is a way of thinking. It is a fundamentally different framework for understanding and responding to crime and victimization in communities</span>. Correctional systems adopting a restorative justice approach are no longer driven by offender concerns only. Instead, they acknowledge the need for a three-dimensional response involving victims, offenders, and the community. Once correctional agencies clearly understand restorative justice, their activities will naturally follow it. However, agencies can't plunk down the latest restorative justice program and think that they are now performing restorative corrections. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The transition is easier if agencies have staff members who "think restorative justice" and if they develop policies that have a clear purpose which brings about wholeness in victims, offenders, and communities.</span> </span></span>


<span style="margin-left: -76.5pt;">I affirm. </span>
===<span style="margin-left: -76.5pt;">Charged is</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 20px;">**I I aPre Trial AC**</span>=== 
Charged is defined as “to accuse or blame,” so the affirmative does not have to defend equal punishment. Not all people charged with crimes eventually serve time, and the resolution specifically uses the term “treated” instead of “tried and punished” as in 2006 to avoid this debate. There is a clear legal distinction between the trial discussion of charged and the punishment one of convicted. 
Dictionary.com writes: 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dictionary.com, The Hot Word—5 November 2010. [Blog published by dictionary.com, not random people. Updated daily with interesting information about the meaning of various words and phrases]. What’s the exact difference between being “charged,” “convicted,” and “sentenced” for a crime? </span>
Today, former Oakland, California, transit police officer Johannes Mehserle received the minimum possible sentence in the controversial death of a teenager on January 1, 2009. The incident and subsequent trial have prompted outrage and violent protests. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Today’s decision brings attention to the legal meanings of three verbs : “charge,” “convict,” and “sentence.” </span></span>They appear in the news constantly, but do you know what each term actually describes? Let’s begin with “charge.” <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">When a person is charged with a crime, a formal allegation (a statement not yet proven) of an offense is made. Once convicted, the person has been proven or declared guilty of the offense. In the United States, a person is convicted after a legal trial</span></span>__.__ After a conviction in criminal (as opposed to civil) proceedings, sentencing is next. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">When sentenced, the convicted criminal is issued a formal judgment that usually pronounces the punishment.</span></span> The convict can appeal the sentence, but a sentence usually takes effect while appeals occur.
Ought is defined as moral obligation. 
The value is morality 
Persons can only meet obligations through setting ends for themselves—this process can only occur when they have the means to pursue such end—those means require freedom. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ripstein 04</span></span>—(Arthur Ripstein Authority and Coercion, 2004, Philosophy and Public Affairs) 
The ability to set an end for myself, and the ability to pursue it, are distinct, but cannot be separated entirely. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">A necessary condition of my setting</span></span> something as one of my <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">ends</span></span>, rather than, for example, wishing or hoping for that thing, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">is for me to take up means towards it</span></span>.<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">13 </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The capacity to set ends for myself</span></span> is not simply the capacity to entertain an end, a capacity which I might be able to exercise while in chains, but rather, the capacity to take steps toward its achievement. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">I can only do that provided that I take</span></span> myself to have <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">some means with which to pursue it</span></span>, that I be able to do something that counts as taking steps towards achieving it. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Otherwise, I have not made it my end at all</span></span>—I have only wished for it. This way of making the point is perhaps too instru- mental: the point is not that I need particular means in order to pursue whatever ends I happen to have. Instead, the connection goes in the opposite direction. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">If I am to be the one who sets ends for myself, I must have means fully at my disposal, so that I am the one who decides which purposes to use them for.</span></span> The point here is contrastive: <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">I am free to use my means to set ends only if my ability to do so does not depend on what others might have to say </span></span>about it.
Only the AC framework isolates the necessary condition for morality. 
Violations of person equate to violations of freedom—they prevent people from pursuing their own ends—this generates an obligation. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ripstein 04</span></span>—(Arthur Ripstein Authority and Coercion, 2004, Philosophy and Public Affairs) 
Much of <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the structure of rights to property applies</span></span> in just the same way <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">to</span></span> my <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">rights with respect to my own person</span></span>, since it too is some- thing that I can use to set and pursue ends; indeed <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">I could not set or pursue ends without it. </span></span>Strictly speaking, I do not have property in my own person; there are some inherent limits on my possessary rights, so that, for example, I may not alienate my own person. But I have rights in my person like those I have in external things. A traditional way of understanding property, found, for example, in Locke, sees it as an extension of the sort of ownership that we have of our own selves. For Kant, by contrast, the manner in which I have rights in my own person in an important sense subtends the manner in which I have rights in property. Like rights in property, those rights are rights that I have as against all other persons. And like rights in property, they extend to both possession and use. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Just as property can be both injured and trespassed against, so too can my person</span></span>. If you tie a balloon to my toe while I sleep, but remove it before I wake up, you do me no harm. But you wrong me because <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">you trespass against my person—you use me for a purpose that is not my own</span></span>. So <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">property must be understood broadly, to include my right to my own person</span></span>.<span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">18</span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;"> Property is a kind of rightful relation. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">It is</span></span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;"> also definitive of a distinctive type of wrong, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the wrong of interference</span></span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">If you damage my property</span></span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;"> (or person) you do not merely set back my interests. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">You limit my</span></span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;"> external </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">freedom because you limit my ability to pursue my own ends</span></span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;">. If you trespass on my property, that is, use it without my permission, you limit my ability to set the ends for which it will be used. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Because rights to person and property protect persons from others</span></span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;"> with whom they interact independently, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the law of both persons and property consists in negative prohibitions</span></span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;">: </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">I am not allowed to injure or trespass against you or your goods</span></span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;">. By contrast, contract and status create affirmative obligations, because they are cases in which separate persons interact interdependently.</span>
Thus, the standard is respecting individual freedom. 
1. Freedom exists absent alien control and non-arbitrary state interference. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pettit 08</span></span>—(Phillip Pettit, Law and Liberty, 2008, Princeton University, Department of Politics) 
We have been discussing freedom in particular choices and have argued for three distinctive theses: first, that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">freedom is a function of how far alien control is absent</span></span>; second, that alien control may be present without the presence of interference, as in the case of invigilation or intimidation; and third, that interference may be present without the presence of alien control, as when the interference is in ultimate control of the process. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">A</span></span> given <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">choice will be free just to the extent that it escapes alien control</span></span>: just to the extent that the agent is not exposed to the exer- cised <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">or unexercised power of arbitrary interference on the part of another</span></span>; just to the extent that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the agent is not dominated</span></span> in that choice by that other 

2. Freedom exists as long as there is equal opportunity to access it—the framework does not require perfect society. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pettit 2</span></span>—(Phillip Pettit, Law and Liberty, 2008, Princeton University, Department of Politics) 
There are three claims that enable us to build up a notion of the free person from that of the free choice. <span style="font-family: 'Lucida Sans Unicode';">␣</span>e first is that however <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">freedom</span></span> of the person is understood, it <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">should be</span></span> a status that is <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">equally available to all citizens</span></span>. In traditional republicanism, this would have meant a status that is available to all propertied, mainstream males; in neo-republicanism it is bound to mean a status that is available <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">on a</span></span> more <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">inclusive basis</span></span>. Take any status that can be made available, then, only to a proper subset of the citizenry. <span style="font-family: 'Lucida Sans Unicode';">␣</span>at status may define the privileged status of an elite but it cannot define what it means to be a free person. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Freedom</span></span> in a republic <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">may not be perfectly provided for all members</span></span>—the soci- ety may be less than perfect—<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">but</span></span> at least <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">it should be</span></span> a status that is capable <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">in principle</span></span> of being <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">equally provided for all</span></span>. 

3. Freedom requires equal protection for all choices—if the protection varies than the equality of the free person would be jeopardized.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pettit 3</span></span>—(Phillip Pettit, Law and Liberty, 2008, Princeton University, Department of Politics) 
The third claim that relates the notion of the free, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">un-dominated person</span></span> to the free, un-dominated choice is that not only must the free person be protected in the same choices as others, he or she <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">must </span></span>also <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">be protected on the same</span></span>, robust <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">basis</span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Did the basis of protection vary</span></span> between individuals, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">then the equality</span></span> that is built into the notion <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">of the free person would be jeopardized.</span></span> There might be <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">equal protection</span></span> provided at a given time but the equality of the protection would be highly contingent common basis of protection in the republican tradition is provided, of course, by the rule of law as exercised by an impartial government, operating under the control of the citizens. In Harrington’s words, it is a law ‘framed by every private man unto no other end (or they may thank themselves) than <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">to protect the liberty of every private man, which by that means comes to be the liberty of the commonwealth’</span></span>.<span style="font-family: 'Lucida Sans Unicode';">␣␣</span>

4. The law doesn’t limit if it is non-arbitrary and provides equal protection. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pettit 4</span></span>—(Phillip Pettit, Law and Liberty, 2008, Princeton University, Department of Politics) 
On a theory of liberty as non-interference, such as Bentham adopted and popularized, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">it is inevitable that law will detract from the liberty of citizens</span></span>; it will interfere with them in coercing them to do or not to do certain things, in imposing levies and taxes, and in applying sanctions to offenders. The benefits it creates by these means may compensate for the fact that it itself represents a form of interference but they cannot cancel it out. On a theory of liberty as<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> non-domination, however, there is a possibility that</span></span> law may not assume this hostile profile. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Law may help to secure for people the sort of protection that establishes them as free persons or citizens</span></span>. And in doing this it may not detract from their freedom of choice. It will interfere and restrict people’s freedom of choice, of course—most dramatically in the case of imprisonment. But <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">it may do this without imposing an alien will</span></span>; it may restrict choice on a controlled <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">and non-arbitrary</span></span> basis, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">and may not represent a form of domination</span></span>.

5. Government self-regulation pre-empts other government attempts to ensure justice. Government can control itself easier than addressing other injustice in society; furthermore, a government that takes unjust actions and abuses freedom cannot be trusted to consistently and fairly prevent other actors from violating freedom. This establishes an act-omission for the AC. 

Thus, the plan: In the United States, juveniles charged with violent felonies ought to subjected to adult statutes for equal protection during pre-trial detention. I reserve the right to clarify in the 1AR, absent neg clarification in C-X. 

Contention One is Parens Patriae 
1. Parens patriae is a broad statute giving the state great discretion regarding the pre-trial detainment of a juvenile—ignores child’s freedom. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Worrel 85</span></span>—(Claudia Worrell, 1985, Yale Law Journal, pretrial Detention of Juveniles: Denial of Equal Protection Maasked by the Parens Patriae Doctrine, lexis) 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">In its parens patriae role in the Juvenile Court</span></span>, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the State has two</span></span> professed <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">aims: to </span></span>provide guidance and <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">rehabilitation</span></span> for the child, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span></span> to provide<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> protection for society.</span> </span>[[#r9]]The first, "rehabilitative," aim has traditionally justified the procedural disparity between juvenile courts and adult criminal courts. [[#r10]] That is, in exchange for a minor's relinquishment of due process and other constitutionally protected rights, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the Juvenile Court promises to act in the minor's best interest rather than</span></span><span class="CardChar0"> to </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">punish </span></span>him or her. [[#r11]]Because the court promises to be committed to the minor's best interest, there is -- the argument goes -- no need for the State and the minor to take adversarial postures, [[#r12]]and thus no need for the court to be hampered by the due process protection constitutionally required in an adult system. The statutes governing when to detain accused persons before trial are much broader and less precise for minors than they are for adults. [[#r13]] Thus, [*177] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the state </span></span>agent <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">is left with great discretion to determine which accused juveniles to detain</span></span>. [[#r15]] The decision that arises from the exercise of this discretion is difficult to challenge, moreover, because it is assumed to have been motivated by the benevolence of the //parens patriae// philosophy. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The "best interests of the child" </span></span>tone of this philosophy, therefore, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">masks the inevitable competition in a juvenile court between the State's </span></span><span class="BlockCutChar1"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">interest in community protection</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and the juvenile's interest in freedom</span></span> from state institutional restraint. In addition to relying on the belief that the often conflicting interests of the community and of an accused juvenile can simultaneously be protected by the State in a "flexible," "non-adversarial" system, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the parens patriae doctrine relies on an assumption that minors require a greater degree of care and protection, and thus a lesser degree of liberty, than do adults</span></span>. [[#r16]] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">In contrast,</span></span> my argument that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">minors should enjoy equal protection of the laws </span></span>rests on a presumption that, at least <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">when the State seeks to exercise [*178] its coercive power to detain, minors have as great an interest in freedom as do adults.</span> </span>

2. Juveniles require equal protection under the law—developmental immaturity is not sufficient to justify violations of liberty
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Worrel 2</span></span>—(Claudia Worrell, 1985, Yale Law Journal, pretrial Detention of Juveniles: Denial of Equal Protection Maasked by the Parens Patriae Doctrine, lexis) 
Under the fundamental rights branch of equal protection analysis, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">equal protection of the laws is denied </span></span>when the government, lacking a compelling state interest, [[#r49]]distinguishes in its allocation of a fundamental right between persons who are similarly situated. [[#r50]] The differing allocation of a fundamental right -- liberty -- <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">in juvenile and adult detention statutes</span></span> escapes strict scrutiny because of the assumption that minors are not similarly situated to adults. Because <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">juveniles are,</span></span> in fact, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">similarly situated to adults </span></span>with respect to the criteria relevant to the State's interest <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">in pretrial detention</span></span>, however, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the dissimilar pretrial treatment of juveniles is a denial of equal protection</span></span>. [[#r51]] [*186<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">] The most common justification</span></span> for the classification of minors <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">is their developmental immaturity</span></span> [[#r52]] -- manifesting itself in minors' need for care, protection and guidance. [[#r53]]<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> A</span></span> practical <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">problem</span></span> with basing laws on juveniles' developmental immaturity <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">is</span></span> that, as the term implies, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">it is not an on/off status</span></span>, but a broad continuum that is correlated with age. Thus, one standard of judicial review -- whether it be rational relation, strict scrutiny or some intermediate standard -- may not be capable of coping appropriately with juveniles' widely varying levels of competence in the exercise of different rights. [[#r54]] Ideally, one would envision a sliding-scale standard of review that would accommodate the problem of immaturity with varying degrees of intrusion according to the juvenile's actual degree of competence. 

3. Parens patriae justifies pre-trial detention in the absence of parents—not equal protection 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Worrel 3</span></span>—(Claudia Worrell, 1985, Yale Law Journal, pretrial Detention of Juveniles: Denial of Equal Protection Maasked by the Parens Patriae Doctrine, lexis) 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Juvenile courts' treatment of</span></span> accused <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">minors who lack parental supervision highlights the link between</span></span> the <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">parens patriae </span></span>doctrine <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">and unconstitutional detention</span></span>. Because the//parens patriae// doctrine is triggered by an individual's need for care and protection, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the doctrine has</span></span> particularly <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">harsh effects on</span></span> those arrested <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">juveniles</span></span> whose parents are (or are suspected to be) unwilling or unable to supervise them until trial. This phenomenon is a key part of the juvenile detention problem: <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Many juveniles are detained solely because they lack a parent</span></span> willing to take them home. **<span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">61</span>** <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Detention on the basis of inadequate parental supervision is a denial of equal protection</span></span> not only because it is based on an irrelevant assumption of incompetence, but also because the remedy chosen -- <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">detention -- is not adequately tailored to the problem of parental absence</span></span>. 

4. Parens patriae has two conflicting goals—the protection of the child and the protection of the state—becomes arbitrary interference. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Worrel 4</span></span>—(Claudia Worrell, 1985, Yale Law Journal, pretrial Detention of Juveniles: Denial of Equal Protection Maasked by the Parens Patriae Doctrine, lexis) 
The high risk that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">an accused juvenile's liberty</span></span> interest <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">might</span></span> erroneously <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">be infringed</span></span> is partly created <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">by</span></span> a <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">conflict between the State's two parens patriae interests</span></span>: to protect the vulnerable individual, and to protect the community. [[#r32]] When these two interests compete, the State may wrongly choose (either accidentally or maliciously) to further its community-protection interest at the unwarranted expense of the minor. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">In the worst scenario, the State may use the parens patriae doctrine to cover up a motive that neither protects the juvenile nor the community</span></span>. For instance, [*182] some argue that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the real reason juveniles are subject to much harsher pretrial detention statutes than are adults is that the incarceration of accused juvenile delinquents is an easy way for government officials to look like they are taking concrete measures to fight crime</span></span>. [[#r33]] Parents, however, do not face such a conflict of interest. An individual's primary task as a parent is to care for his or her own child, a task that might secondarily include preventing the child from harming the community. But it is clear to parents that society relies primarily upon the State, and not them, to protect the community. Thus, in dealing with troubled and troublesome youths, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the State finds itself burdened with a conflict of interest</span></span> that parents do not share. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">This conflict, and the resulting</span></span> higher risk of an <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">erroneous deprivation of liberty</span></span>, indicates a need for stronger judicial safeguards in the State-juvenile relationship than might be deemed necessary in the parent-child relationship. 

5. The state juvenile relationship lacks the affection from parent to child—cannot act in the child’s best interest—proactively compromise the juvenile’s well—being. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Worrel 5</span></span>—(Claudia Worrell, 1985, Yale Law Journal, pretrial Detention of Juveniles: Denial of Equal Protection Maasked by the Parens Patriae Doctrine, lexis) 
Courts have often recognized that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the parent-child relationship is unique</span></span>. [[#r27]] The law has presumed that parents have the necessary life skills that young children lack, and, more importantly, that parents are motivated by "natural bonds of affection . . . to act in the best interests of their children." [[#r28]] It is these <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">natural family ties, and the affection and good will that they engender, which give parents unique authority over their children</span></span>. [[#r29]] But <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">these familial ties</span></span> that lead parents to act in the best interests of their children <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">cannot be presumed to exist in the State-juvenile relationship, especially in the Juvenile Court</span></span> context. In this context, the [*181] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">juvenile</span></span> and the <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">state agent</span></span>, (who might be a police officer, intake officer, referee, probation officer or judge), [[#r30]] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">are</span></span> usually <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">strangers</span></span>, with their sole contact a result of the juvenile's alleged delinquent act. If they do have an established relationship, it, too, most probably developed in the context of some alleged misconduct. The state agent, to whom the juvenile is a stranger or delinquent, is not likely to feel the same commitment to the juvenile's well-being that a parent would feel. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">We</span></span> consequently <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">cannot place in a state agent the same trust to act in the best interests of the juvenile that we place in parents.</span></span> Thus, as least in the Juvenile Court context, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">the right to constrain and direct children loses much of its justification in the transfer from parent to State</span></span>. 
The hallmark of the juvenile justice system is the ability to protect a child’s well—being. Inability to do so is reason to prefer the affirmative offense. 
6. Competency is not relevant for rights that are designed to protect juveniles against state harm—less competent juveniles are more likely to need pre trial protections 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Worrel 6</span></span>—(Claudia Worrell, 1985, Yale Law Journal, pretrial Detention of Juveniles: Denial of Equal Protection Masked by the Parens Patriae Doctrine, lexis) 
Even if all minors were incompetent, however, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">juvenile detention standards that did not stringently protect liberty would still deny minors the equal protection of the law</span></span>s. Scrutiny of a juvenile classification must not only take into account the difficult question of the juvenile's individual level of competence, but must also determine whether level of competence is relevant to the allocation of the right in question. [[#r56]] Level of competence is relevant to rights that depend upon the responsible exercise of free choice, such as the right to drive an automobile, [[#r57]] and that thus require the person to act without harming him or herself or others. [[#r58]] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Level of competence is not relevant, </span></span>however, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">to rights that are designed to protect the individual against governmental harm</span></span>, such as the right not to be imprisoned or <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">not to have one's property confiscated</span></span> without due process, or the Eighth Amendment right to be free from cruel and unusual punishment. [[#r59]] Where <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">we want to be sure that the government does not overstep its bounds, act arbitrarily</span></span> or maliciously, or otherwise cause harm, our concern is not lessened if the victim is immature, of low intelligence, or irresponsible. In fact, if the victim fits any of the above categories, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">we may be particularly concerned to protect him or her from governmental harm, because the victim may be less able to protect him or herself, or may be more susceptible to harmful influence</span></span>__.__ <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> Strict guidelines in juvenile detention </span></span>[*188] standards would protect juveniles <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">from erroneous and dangerous detention</span></span>, a consequence that is surely not rendered inappropriate by some juveniles' developmental immaturity.

Contention Two is Strip Searches
1. Juveniles are subjected to blanket strip search policies—unconstitutional when applied to adults 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Feierman 07</span></span>—(Jessira R. Feierman and Riya S. Shah, Attorney, Georgetown University of Law, 2007, Rutgers Law Review, PROTECTING PERSONHOOD: LEGAL STRATEGIES TO COMBAT THE USE OF STRIP SEARCHES ON YOUTH IN DETENTION)
This Article focuses on one issue affecting <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">detained</span></span> and confined <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">children: blanket strip-search policies requiring all children to be searched at intake to a detention facility.</span></span>13 <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Such policies are unconstitutional as applied to adults</span></span>.14 Nonetheless<span class="CardChar0">, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">both the Eighth and Second Circuit have recently upheld them as applied to children.</span></span> The clear tension between the courts’ language of child protection and the risk that the searches will harm children brings to light important questions regarding the legal definition of personhood and dignity for children.

2. Juvenile detention facilities condone juvenile strip searches without any constraint—the adult system requires reasonable suspicion. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 11</span></span>—(Emily J. Nelson, Boston College Law Review, 2011, Note: Custodial Strip Searches of Jvueniels: How Safford Informs A New Two-Tiered Standard of Review, Lexis) 
Given that the Supreme Court has never established a framework for considering strip searches of juveniles in JDCs, [[#r18]] lower courts appear uncertain about what standard and precedent to apply when considering such searches. [[#r19]] Moreover, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">state officials are given substantial </span></span>[*342] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">deference to determine when to conduct a juvenile search,</span></span> and <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">such deference can lead to </span></span>unbridled discretion and<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> serious privacy invasions</span></span>. [[#r20]] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The need for a clear standard is</span></span> further <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">illuminated by the disparity in the way</span></span> some <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">courts address strip searches of juveniles as opposed to adults.</span></span> [[#r21]] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Some courts will find the search of an adult</span></span> detained for a minor offense to be <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">impermissible without reasonable suspicion</span></span> that he or she possessed contraband, but <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">will uphold the strip search of a juvenile detained</span></span> for a minor offense as constitutional, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">even in the absence of individualized suspicion</span></span>. [[#r22]] Although youth strip searches are a serious issue in any context, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">strip searches in JDCs can be particularly damaging because of their potential to exacerbate the already detrimental impact of detention and incarceration on vulnerable youth:</span></span> even absent the trauma of a strip search, incarceration in crowded juvenile facilities can lead to psychiatric problems, suicidal tendencies, aggressive adult behavior, and poor development of social skill 
3. Statutes regulating pre-trial detention are less precise for juveniles than adults—justifies strip searches 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 2</span></span>—(Emily J. Nelson, Boston College Law Review, 2011, Note: Custodial Strip Searches of Jvueniels: How Safford Informs A New Two-Tiered Standard of Review, Lexis) 
Yet the early promises of procedural rights for youth articulated in //Kent// and //Gault// are still unfulfilled, such that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">juveniles are held to adult accountability standards but denied </span></span>similar<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> constitutional rights</span></span>. [[#r60]] For example, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">state agents have great discretion to determine when to detain juveniles because statutes governing when to detain accused individuals before trial are less precise for minors than for adults</span></span>. [[#r61]] Moreover, in //McKeiver v. Pennsylvania//, decided by the Supreme Court in 1976, the plurality opinion held that juveniles have no constitutional right to a trial by jury in the juvenile court's adjudicative stage. [[#r62]] A recent constitutional [*347] debate over juveniles' constitutional rights and needs for protection concerns strip searches of juveniles--the subject of this Note. [[#r63]] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Invasive strip searches present some of the most serious constitutional issues because they infringe both on due process rights and on personal privacy rights</span></span>. [[#r64]]
4. The rhetoric of the juvenile justice system masks harm to juvenile’s personhood
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Feierman 07</span></span>—(Jessira R. Feierman and Riya S. Shah, Attorney, Georgetown University of Law, 2007, Rutgers Law Review, PROTECTING PERSONHOOD: LEGAL STRATEGIES TO COMBAT THE USE OF STRIP SEARCHES ON YOUTH IN DETENTION)
The holdings in Smook241 and N.G.242 demonstrate <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">courts’ reluctance to guard the fundamental principles of personhood</span></span> set forth in Gault and underscored by international law and social science research. For forty years, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">courts have been touting the state’s responsibility to protect children as the</span></span> primary <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">function of the juvenile justice system</span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Case law on juvenile strip searches echoes this rhetoric, claiming to protect children in detention centers from themselves and others. </span></span>Social science research shows, however, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">that behind the rhetoric of protection, children are suffering harm.</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">[[#_GoBack]] </span>
5. Strip searches cause psychological trauma—magnifies impacts of post-trial incareration and is a solvency deficit to rehab—lifelong impact on adolescent mind—example of the dominating effects. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nelson 11</span></span>—(Emily J. Nelson, Boston College Law Review, 2011, Note: Custodial Strip Searches of Jvueniels: How Safford Informs A New Two-Tiered Standard of Review, Lexis) 
JDCs, however, are more comparable to schools--and more distinguishable from prisons--than appears at first blush for the purposes of examining the constitutionality of strip searches. **__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">183</span>__** First, the individuals [*361] in both schools and JDCs are youths. **__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">184</span>__** Scientific and psychological <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">research indicates that a traumatic strip search can have a lifelong impact on an adolescent's developing mind</span></span>. **__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">185</span>__** Even <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">without the added trauma of a strip search, the incarceration of youth in crowded juvenile facilities can lead to psychiatric problems, increased suicidal tendencies, aggressive adult behavior, and poor development of social skills</span></span>, compared with youth who remain in the community. **__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">186</span>__** <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The trauma of a strip search would likely exacerbate the negative effects of youth incarceration</span></span>. **__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">187</span>__** Research has shown that the part of the brain responsible for rational decision making does not develop fully until an individual reaches his or her mid-twenties. **__<span style="color: blue; font-size: 7pt;">188</span>__** Moreover, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">childhood trauma increases the likelihood of lifelong personality disorders, conduct disorders, depression, anxiety,</span></span> learning disabilities, and school-related Problems. 



==Negative== 
===Restorative Justice CP=== 
CounterPlan Text: In the United States, juveniles charged with violent felonies ought to be treated as adults in a reformed criminal justice system consistent with a restorative justice paradigm. This includes an individualized approach including mediated interactions between the victim and offender
Competition 
A. Mutual Exclusivity—The aff defends the current punitive criminal justice system, the counter plan reforms re-structuring the way we convict and sentence juveniles, no perm ground can’t reform and use the same punitive measures at the same time. 
B. Net Benefits 
C. Also, advocating treating both juveniles and adults through restorative justice is severance and intrinsic because this was not the original Aff advocacy. This makes it impossible to Negate because they make all my arguments disappear by shifting their advocacy to coopt them, and their ground is better because they can shift in such ways to answer any objection to their arguments.
Contention One: Net Benefits
1. The restorative process functions as moral education, the offender becomes morally aware of the impact of their crime. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Garvey 03</span></span>—(Stephen P. Garvey, Professor of Law Cornell School, Restorative Justice, Punishment and Atonement, Utah Law Review, 2003, http://privateweb.law.utah.edu/_webfiles/academic/journals/utahlawreview/2003_1/09Garvey.pdf)
My claim here is that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">when a restorative justice conference is said to work</span></span>, it’s said to work because <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">it achieves atonement</span></span>, or at least starts the process rolling. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Perhaps the most distinctive feature of the processes associated with restorative justice is, as I’ve mentioned, the face-to-face encounter between the offender and the victim</span></span>. Together with their accompanying communities of care, as well as other stakeholders, the victim and offender meet as fellow human beings sharing a common humanity. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Their dialogue and interactions are not mediated through formal legal rules or structures. Victim and offender speak to one another directly, not through lawyers. There is no judge, only a mediator or facilitator, whose main job is to ensure that the exchange remains within the boundaries of mutual respect When this process works as it should, it brings home to the offender in painful detail the full measure of the injury he has caused. He comes to see his victim as a human being with standing equal to his own. The guilt he formally acknowledged before the restorative process began hits home. Not only does he acknowledge it cognitively, he also experiences it affectively. 40 The processes associated with restorative justice therefore function ideally as mechanisms of moral education</span></span>. 41 <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">They bring an offender to understand and appreciate the full measure of the damage he has caused, both material and moral; enable him to overcome mechanisms of defense and denial; and teach him what he must do to make amends and gain readmission into the community as a member in good standing.</span></span>

2. This solves better. A meta-analysis of every relevant study from the last 25 years proves that victims are more satisfied with restorative justice than other forms of treatment. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Latimer 01</span></span>—(Jeff Latimer, Craig Dowden, Danielle Muise. “The Effectiveness of Restorative Justice Practices: A Meta-Analysis.” Department of Justice Canada – Research and Stats Division. 2001.)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The overall </span></span>mean <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">effect</span></span> size for the 13 tests of <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">treatment </span></span>that explored the impact <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">of restorative justice programming on victim satisfaction was</span></span> +0.19 <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">(+19%)</span></span> (SD=.18) <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">with a 95 percent confidence</span></span> of +0.30 to +0.08 (see Figure 1). Although the effect sizes ranged from +0.44 to -0.19, the latter was the only negative value found in the distribution. In other words, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">participation in a restorative justice program resulted in higher victim satisfaction</span></span> ratings when compared to a comparison group in all but one of the 13 programs examined. It should be noted that the one negative result was found in the only program that operated at the post-sentence (or corrections) entry point. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Compared to victims who participated in the traditional justice system, victims who participated in restorative processes were significantly more satisfied</span></span> (t (12) = 3.89, p < 0.01). 

3. And, this also comparatively minimizes recidivis form of continued moral disengagement. Even if neg argues consistent retribution would always solve these needs to restore the community, it’s still preferable to proactively prevent disengagement. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Latimer continues</span></span> (Jeff Latimer, Craig Dowden, Danielle Muise. “The Effectiveness of Restorative Justice Practices: A Meta-Analysis.” Department of Justice Canada – Research and Stats Division. 2001.)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The overall mean effect size for the 32 tests</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that examined the effectiveness of restorative justice programming </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">in reducing offender recidivism was</span></span> <span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">+0.07 </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">(+7%)</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (SD=.13) </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">with a 95 percent confidence</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> interval of +0.12 to +0.02. Although the effect sizes ranged from +0.38 to -0.23, more than two thirds of the effect sizes were positive (72%). In other words, </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">restorative justice programs, on average, yielded reductions in recidivism compared to non-restorative approaches to criminal behaviour</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">.</span>__<span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In fact, </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">compared to</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the comparison/ control </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">groups that did not participate in a restorative justice</span></span><span class="LinedDown"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> program, </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">offenders in the treatment groups were significantly more successful during the followup periods </span></span>(t (31) = 2.88, p < 0.01). 

4. Restorative Justice controls the internal link into deterrence—conferences make people want to obey the law rather than fear it through this type of moral awareness. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Sherman 97</span></span>—(Restorative Justice and Deterring Crime, Professor Lawrence W Sherman is an Adjunct Professor of Law at the Research School of Social Sciences, Australian School of Criminology, 1997, http://dspace.anu.edu.au/bitstream/1885/41919/1/risepap4.html) 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The effect of criminal justice actions on repeat offending is arguably a result of two separate factors, called procedures and outcomes. </span></span>Jeremy<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> Bentham's </span></span>classical<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> approach to criminology placed the emphasis on outcomes, assuming that offenders are deterred by the fear of greater infliction of pain</span></span> from the state in the form of anything from a fine to capital punishment. French sociologist Emile Durkheim modified that view by suggesting that "<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">it is shame which doubles most punishments", and that the real power of formal punishment is to invoke informal disgrace among family and friends</span></span>. More recently, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">social scientists of law have argued that the fairness of the procedures may matter as much as or more than the actual punishment imposed. Listening to the offender's views, correcting errors of fact, and judging each offender by equal standards regardless of race, income, age or gender are all important elements affecting whether offenders respect the law</span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">That in turn may affect their attitude to obeying it</span></span>. In the report in this series entitled "Restorative Justice and Offenders' Respect for the Law", <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">conferences were shown to be superior to court on all these elements of "procedural justice", which results in greater offender respect for the police, the justice system and the law itself.</span></span> The reason these findings of a deterrent effect are surprising is that they go beyond the theory of reintegrative shaming devised by ANU Professor John Braithwaite. It holds that offenders will be more likely to obey the law if shamed in a restorative way because that will make them want to be law-abiding. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The theory does not suggest that shaming will make offenders more fearful of sanctions, thus coercing them into obeying the law. The theory places far more emphasis on the procedures of shaming than on the outcome, which is traditionally associated with the fear of punishment. </span></span>
In order to deter crime, we must judge each offender by equal standards to ensure fair procedures, means the neg can never solve for deterrence. 
5. Restorative justice embraces societal interconnectivity, plays a key role in the transformative processes necessary to solve racial, gender and societal inequity.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Consedine 03</span></span>—(Jim, Catholic Prison Chaplain, RESTORATIVE JUSTICE - HEALING THE EFFECTS OF CRIME, Speech Transcript, Restorative Justice and Probation Conference, Warsaw, 2 December 2003) 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Restorative justice is a philosophy that embraces a wide range of human emotions including healing, compassion, forgiveness, mercy, reconciliation as well as sanction when appropriate. It</span></span> also <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">recognises a world-view that says we are all interconnected and that what we do be it for good or evil has an impact on others. Restorative justice offers the process whereby those affected by criminal behaviour be they victims, offenders, the families involved or the wider community, all need to have a part in resolving the issues which flow from the offending</span></span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">This provides recognition to a degree at least that all things are interconnected.</span></span> Restorative justice cannot, of course, solve <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">the systemic issues created by class, race and gender divisions</span></span>. These belong to wider communal efforts that seek to bring about equity and justice for all through transformative justice. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Restorative justice does</span></span> however <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">play an important element in this transformative process. It can be used from situations in kindergartens and individual homes, through schools and communities, to the course of action followed in South Africa with the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, where a whole nation sought to be healed and reconciled to a criminal past. Where crime is involved, under restorative justice victims and offenders assume central roles and the state takes a back seat. The process does not focus on vengeance and punishment but seeks to heal both the community and the individuals involved. It seeks the common good of all concerned. This is done by putting the notion of reparation and not punishment at the centre. </span></span>
===Competency NC=== 
I value justice defined as giving each their due
Prefer this value because:
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1) While morality governs the actions of individuals, justice governs and provides constraints on legal systems, making it the most contextually appropriate value. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">2) Justice is the inherent goal of a criminal justice system making it the most appropriate value.</span>
The standard is ensuring competency to stand trial.
This is justified because.
1. Procedural focus protects citizens.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Tyler 06</span></span> (Tom R., Chair of Psychology at NYU, “Why People Obey the Law”, Princeton Press, 2006, P58-59, Google Books)
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">There are several reasons why <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">people</span> may <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">focus on procedures </span>rather than outcomes</span></span> when evaluating authorities. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The most straightforward reason is simplicity</span></span>. Although <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">it may seem simple to make evaluations based on</span> </span>the quality of one’s <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">outcomes, in reality it is quite difficult</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">. In</span></span> complex organizations, such as <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">our society, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">people receive a wide range of benefits. They are also restricted in some ways and incur many types of cost. How can a person combine judgments of all these outcomes into any single evaluation</span> of authorities, rules, or institutions? Such <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">complex decisions can be avoided by making</span> organizational <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">evaluations based on</span> the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">procedures</span></span></span> of allocation and resolution of disputes. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">If the procedures are fair, people</span></span> will believe that over time their interests <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">are</span></span> reasonably <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">protected </span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">by membership in the group</span></span>. This has been called the “process politics” view of evaluations (Ophuls 1977). 10
2. Legitimacy and Fair Process norms are vital to public compliance with the law, key to justice.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Meares 5</span></span> (Tracey, Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation, “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005))
It goes almost without saying that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">the legitimacy of the criminal justice system is critical to the system’s proper functioning</span></span>. We can see this by examining the criminal trial. We use the criminal trial in order to accurately ascertain whether the accused in fact committed an act deserving of punishment. It is sometimes said that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">constitutional criminal procedure guarantees represent a preference for more accuracy in criminal judgments</span></span>, as rules that tend to favor the defendant are likely on average to reduce false positives.9 But, it is also true that this sorting function is not the only, or even the primary, goal of the procedures that make up a criminal trial.10 For example, Peter Arenella has noted that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">criminal procedure can insure that a suspect is treated with dignity and respect</span></span> in ways that capture “society’s normative aspirations embodied in its positive laws, customs, religions, and ideologies and the proper relationship between the individual and the state.”11 Fair process norms are typically promoted as ethical imperatives to be pursued as goods in and of themselves set apart from their value in reducing outcome error. Importantly, however, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">even if procedure is disconnected from the objective of accurate sorting, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">fair process norms</span> still can lead to <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">instrumental benefits. Public confidence in the criminal justice system is one</span> such <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">obvious benefit. The public is much more likely to support and participate in the criminal justice process</span> and support those officials who run it <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">when the public believes that the process is run fairly. If the</span> American <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">public does not</span> perceive its criminal justice system to be fair, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">negative consequences can result</span></span></span>. Diminished public support for the criminal justice system, taken to the extreme, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">can lead <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">to diminished respect for the law and</span>, thereby, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">less compliance with the law</span>.</span></span>12 <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Social science researchers have demonstrated that a person’s evaluation of whether a criminal trial is fair does not depend entirely upon the relationship between the procedures that make up the trial and the outcome of the trial. It turns out that people do not typically emphasize the extent to which a procedure leads to accurate results when assessing whether the procedure is fair. Instead, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">people are more likely to evaluate trial procedures as messages to them from the authorities controlling the procedures</span></span></span>. The primary proponents of this view, E. Alan Lind and Tom Tyler, call this model the “group value” theory of procedural justice.13 The basis of the group value model is <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">people “belong to social groups and that they are very attentive to signs</span> and symbols <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">that communicate</span> information about <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">their status within their groups</span>.</span></span>”14 Thus, Lind and Tyler assert that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">r<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">elational concerns</span>, such as <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">whether a person is treated with dignity, whether the decision-maker is perceived as neutral</span>, and whether the person subjected to a procedure has trust in a decision-maker, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">convey information to the evaluator about her standing in a group or society</span></span></span>.15 Other researchers have explained that people may rely heavily on the evaluation of procedures independent of outcomes because procedures are more “trait-like”16 than outcomes. Outcomes often are variable, or they may be extremely indeterminate in any particular case. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">While it may not be obvious how a particular case should come out, it is almost always clear how parties should proceed and be treated in that particular case</span></span>. At the extreme, individuals may ignore outcomes completely, and focus entirely on the procedures that make up a trial when evaluating whether the trial is “fair.”17 

3. Competency is a prerequisite to due process—must be competent to stand trial to award due process rights
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Grisso 03</span></span>—(Thomas Grisso, et al, —August 2003. University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4. http://www.wisspd.org/html/training/ProgMaterials/Juv07/JCST.pdf) 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">It is well established that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a criminal proceeding meets the constitutional requirements of due process only when the defendant is competent to stand trial</span>, which <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">includes capacities to assist counsel and to understand the nature of the proceeding sufficiently to participate in it and make decisions about rights afforded all defendants</span></span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Dusky v. U.S., 1960; Godinez v. Moran, 1993). Although courts and legislatures in some states have determined that youths adjudicated in juvenile court and criminal court must be competent to stand trial, the conventional standard that has been applied focuses on mental illness and disability</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">In general, there has been little recognition that youths in criminal court may be incompetent due to developmental immaturity</span></span> (Bonnie & Grisso, 2000; Redding & Frost, 2002).

I contend that juveniles are incompetent to stand trial
Juveniles are incompetent to stand trail due to psychological immaturity and ought be treated in a juvenile court—current law doesn’t respect psychological development as an indicator of incompetency—prefer the evidence, it is directly comparative with the competency levels of adults 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Grisso 03</span></span>—(Thomas Grisso, et al, —August 2003. University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4. http://www.wisspd.org/html/training/ProgMaterials/Juv07/JCST.pdf) 
This challenge may be less daunting than it at first appears. As suggested above, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">most youths who are not competent to stand trial as adults due to immaturity could likely be adjudicated in juvenile court</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Moreover, some defendants whose incompetence is based solely on deficient understanding (rather than immature reasoning) could likely be tried as adults after a period of instruction about the matters they do not comprehend. Thus</span>,<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> the great majority of youths would be subject to adjudication on their criminal charges with little <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">delay even when an assessment of their abilities indicates they do not meet adult competence standards. The more difficult questions involve appropriate dispositions for those defendants who are (a) charged with serious crimes and (b) are incompetent to stand trial even in juvenile court on the basis of their immaturity</span>.</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">At least a few options other than the dismissal of charges suggest themselves as possible responses to this very small group of offenders. If the youth is a danger to self or others, civil 18 commitment procedures can be initiated. Confinement for an indefinite period to achieve sufficient maturity to stand trial is another option, but one that must have outer time limits. As the Supreme Court made clear in Jackson v. Indiana (1972) (at least for adults), indefinite confinement of incompetent defendants is analogous to punishment without a trial. Another option would be to rely on social service or educational intervention in response to problems manifested by the child’s behavior. For example, failure of parental supervision may result in removal of the child to state custody and foster care placement. None of these responses is ideal; they may be more restrictive than dispositions that are appropriate for adults. Nonetheless, they deserve careful consideration as responses to the unique developmental status of children</span>. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The present study compared juveniles and adults in their capacities to function in the trial process under established doctrinal requirements that focus on reasoning, understanding and appreciation. But <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">questions about how minors function as criminal defendants compared to adults go beyond those that are captured by the narrow focus of the ordinary competence inquiry</span>. The study indicates that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">psychosocial immaturity may affect a young person’s decisions, attitudes and behavior in the role of defendant in ways that do not directly implicate competence to stand trial, but that may be quite important to how they make choices, interact with police, relate to their attorneys, and respond to the trial context</span>. </span></span>
This isolates reason why the juveniles ought to be treated in the juvenile justice system in order to respect their competency.

Additionally, adolescents are incompetent to stand trial because they are impaired in the decision making process-making them more vulnerable to waive rights or forgo necessary procedures. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Grisso continues</span> </span>
Bonnie (1992, 1993) suggested that, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">in addition to defendants’ basic understanding and reasoning abilities, their <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">“decisional competence” may be significant in cases in which defendants must make important decisions about the waiver of constitutional rights</span>. A potentially <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">important difference</span> between adolescents and adults in this regard <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">involves maturity of judgment</span>. Differences between adolescents and adults are <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">not only cognitive, but also involve aspects of psychosocial maturation</span> that include progress toward greater future orientation, better risk perception, and less susceptibility to peer influence</span></span>. Several authors have hypothesized that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">these developmental factors could result in differences between adolescents’ and adults’ decisionmaking about important rights in the adjudicative process</span></span> (Cauffman & Steinberg, 2000; Scott, 1992; Scott, Reppucci, & Woolard, 1995; Steinberg & Cauffman, 1996). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Current law does not include these developmental factors as relevant when considering a defendant’s adjudicative competence</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">. For example, when making a decision about waiver of important rights, defendants are free to place a primary value on their immediate gratification at the expense of their future welfare, or to opt to please their friends rather than act in their best interests, as long as they adequately understand and grasp the consequences of their choices. But <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">if adolescents place a relatively higher value on immediate gratification than adults as a consequence of their developmental immaturity, they may make different legal decisions than they themselves would make in their adult yea</span>rs.</span></span> Although <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">psychosocial immaturity is not addressed in the formal legal construct of competence to stand trial</span></span>, it needs to be investigated in this context to provide a comprehensive account of adolescents’ capacities to participate in the trial process.

A separate juvenile court system with lower competence standards affords due process rights and assures justice.
Grisso continues
We believe that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">a <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">more relaxed competence standard in juvenile court is compatible with</span> the demands of constitutional <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">due process</span>. The Supreme Court has made clear that the requirements of due process in delinquency proceedings are not identical to those that regulate criminal trials</span></span> (McKeiver v. Pennsylvania, 1971). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The justification for <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a separate juvenile court</span> rests in part on the fact that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">it is not an exact replica of criminal court. If</span> juvenile <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">court jurisdiction ends when the minor reaches adulthood</span> (an important “if”), then <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the stakes of a delinquency proceeding are not as high as</span> those faced by <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a youth charged with a felony in adult court</span>. Under these conditions, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">no constitutional bar would restrict the use of a more relaxed standard of adjudicative competence in juvenile court</span></span></span>. As Bonnie and Grisso (2000) have argued, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">in an ordinary juvenile court</span><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> delinquency proceeding, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the minimal criteria for adjudication</span> are satisfied if the youth “has <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a basic understanding of the purpose of the proceedings and</span> can <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">communicate</span> rationally <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">with counsel.</span> </span></span>



=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]