[[toc]]
=Contact Info= 

Contact Jacob for aff cites -- [[mailto:jacobthedebater@gmail.com|jacobthedebater@gmail.com]]
Contact Cory for neg cites -- [[mailto:cory.jstern@gmail.com|cory.jstern@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
===**1AC Korea Aff -- UMich**=== 

The advantage is security:

Current Korean policy discussions are dominated by security discourse and logic – these discussions rely on characterizing North Korea as the “bad” Koreans

Hazel Smith 2000 “Bad, mad, sad or rational actor? Why the ‘securitization’ paradigm makes for poor policy analysis of north Korea” International Affairs, vol 76, 593-594

There are different strands.... of north Korea as ‘mad’.

Despite the fact that North Korea is no longer a threat, policy makers continue to describe and construct it as one to justify America’s troop presence and policing of the world.

Pena 2002 –“Axis of Evil: Threat or Chimera?”, Charles Charles Peña is senior defense policy analyst at the Cato Institute pp (Mediterranean Quarterly, Volume 13, Number 3, Summer 2002, 40-57)

North Korea is considered a threat.... “sunshine policy” of engagement with North Korea.

Specifically, the language of “rogue states” creates a dichotomy between the moral actions of the US and evil behavior of North Korea. This results in the materialization of North Korea’s “dangerous” behavior while legitimizing America’s continued military presence

Tan See Seng, Prof of Security Studies @ IDSS Singapore, ‘2 [July, “What Fear Hath Wrought: Missile Hysteria and The Writing of America, IDSS Commentary No. 28,http://www.sipri.org/contents/library/0210.pdf]

Otherness, in Wolfowitz’s rendition....of Self as it is of the Other.

This dichotomy further manifests itself in discussion of proliferation, obscuring that western security logic is what spurs proliferation in the first place

Gusterson, 99 associate professor of Anthropology, (Hugh Gusterson, Associate Professor of Anthropology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Nuclear Weapons and the Other in Western Imagination, CULTURAL ANTHROPOLOGY, February 1999, JSTOR)

In the following pages... First World institutions and states.

And, the dichotomy of between “good” Koreans and “bad” Koreans necessitates the violent elimination of the “bad” Korea

Wilson, 91. Rob (Professor of English at the University of Hawaii) Theory's Imaginal Other: American Encounters with South Korea and Japan in boundary 2, Vol. 18, No. 3, Japan in the World (Autumn, 1991), pp. 220-241

The larger question of textual... be known as "Korea" at all.

This flawed security logic attributes responsibility for danger and instability only to North Korea. This results in American policies like military posture in the ROK that reify this image – es calating the conflict

Bleiker, 2005 (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. 36-38, TH)

I will pay particular attention... and force its opponent into submission.

But, American policymakers intentionally construct crises in order to gain concessions in so-called negotiations

Bleiker 2003 (“A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis” International Affairs 79, 4 p.719-737)

‘Hawk engagement’ has emerged... weapons programme, fictive or not.

Status quo rhetoric surrounding North Korea will justify US interventionist war that will result in global conflict

Cumings 5 – Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p ()(
Bruce-, . 487-88) ncp

The point is not that.... regional if not a global holocaust.


The end result is total war –securitization justifies genocidal violence

Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]

The problem with societal... where truth is never questioned.

The process of security leads to unending violence and wars against populations of created threats

Duschinski 2009 – Assistant Prof of Sociology and Anthropology, Ohio University (Haley, “Destiny Effects: Militarization, State Power, and Punitive Containment in Kashmir Valley.” Anthropological Quarterly, Volume 82, Number 3, Summer 2009, Project MUSE) CMR

Patterns of war emerging in ... than human respect and dignity" (Stephen 2000:823).

Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce United States Forces Korea.

Contention Two is Exercises in Futility

North Korea is the key starting point for overhauling existing IR theory – aff produces a new way of approaching policy decisions.

Kang 03 (David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18, JH)

This is just the... South was the rising defender.’’

Evaluate the debate through the lens of what is historically or culturally contingent-- western policymakers claim to objectively describe the North Korean threat, while employing the myth of "the unkown" to dismiss differing opinions. This makes the state the only arbiter of "reality" Policies become unquestionable--only the aff opens up space for criticism

<span class="Cite">Bleiker, 2005</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. xxxv-xxxvii, TH) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Journalists, academics, and policymakers...</span>have become what they are.

Realists misunderstand power politics in North Korea--they should employ a comprehensive historical view of the world to figure out why the misconstruction came about

Kang, 3. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">David (</span><span style="color: #2b2b2b; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of International Relations and Business, Director of Korean Studies Institute</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">), Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks International Security, Volume 27, Number 4, Spring 2003, pp. 65 MUSE </span>

More than a dozen years...such an explanation in the following section.

And, reject “expert” predictions – so-called experts have no accountability or better techniques to predict the future than any informed person.

Menand 5, (12/5/5, Louis Menand, staffwriter for the New Yorker, http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?currentPage=all)

It is the somewhat gratifying lesson....They were seduced by the detail.

Our arg is not that representations shape reality, but that representations ARE reality. Any discussion that ignores the role of representations is vapid.

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">Neta </span><span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Crawford</span></span> <span style="color: black;">,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. __Argument and Change in World Politics__, 200</span><span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">2</span></span><span style="color: black;"> p. 19-21 </span></span>

Coherent arguments are unlikely...framing is a meta-argument.

**Evaluate the debate through the lens of human cooperation – The neg reifies the perceived inevitability of realism – people can and do work together**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span>Busser<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Masters Candidate at the Dept of Political Science at York University. Aug 200</span>6<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (“The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations ”, http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf) </span>

Clark describes the African...or ranking differences.

Realism fails in the case of North Korea –at best it only explains war scenarios – but cannot explain tensions that do not escalate

Kang 03 (David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18, JH)

Additionally, the Korean case....guidance for interpreting either of these strategies

Psychology Proves--evidence is on our side

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey D. </span>Berejikian, Assistant Professor of International Affairs<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the University of Georgia. Dec 200</span>2<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (International Society of Political Psychology. “Model Building With Prospect Theory: A Cognitive Approach to International Relations ”. http://www.jstor.org/stable/3792366?origin=JSTOR-pdf) </span>

For more than two decades...recently taken it up.

Claims that “we are on the brink” of a conflict in North Korea are just rhetorical strategies that are attempting to preserve failing security logic in the status quo –a critical examination now is key

Kang, 3. David (Professor of International Relations and Business, Director of Korean Studies Institute), Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks International Security, Volume 27, Number 4, Spring 2003, pp. 57-85 MUSE

Following the end of the Cold ....designed to avoid troubling evidence.

Analysis of US security logic and threat construction is a precondition for understanding and resolving the North Korean “crisis”
Bleiker 2003 (“A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis” International Affairs 79, 4 p.719-737)

The purpose of this article....crisis solely to North Korea’s actions.

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">This realism takes away original identity and assumes a Western security mindset and denies cultural motives for violence. </span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hansen, 6.</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Lene (Associate Professor, Director of the Ph.d. Program, Department of Political Science, University of Copenhagen//jh) Security as Practice: Discourse Analysis and the Bosnian War, 174.// </span></span>
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">To construct the Bosnian...</span>****<span style="font-size: 11pt;">true national homelands.</span>**</span>//

//**Thayer lied and oversimplified – treat their card as an analytic**//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span>Busser<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Masters Candidate at the Dept of Political Science at York University. Aug 200</span>6<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (“The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations ”, http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf) </span>//

//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**According to Thayer...rests arguable sociobiological evidence.**</span>//


//**Genetics don't impact human nature enough and Thayer has no scientific support**//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mark </span>Busser<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Masters Candidate at the Dept of Political Science at York University. Aug 200</span>6<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (“The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations ”, http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf) </span>//

//Because of these complications...and sustained interdisciplinary exploration.//

//And, security logic is not useful or inevitable in the case of North Korea – aff is key to creating a paradigm shift.//

//Hazel Smith 2000 “Bad, mad, sad or rational actor? Why the ‘securitization’ paradigm makes for poor policy analysis of north Korea” International Affairs, vol 76, 593-594//

//Given the Kuhnian framework... anomalies and the available alternatives.//

//Security discourse is not neutral or rational –but works to justify US military actions and obscure contradictory evidence//

//Bleiker 2003 (“A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis” International Affairs 79, 4 p.719-737)//

//If one steps back... as real and politically legitimate.//






=//Negative//= 


===//Kritiks//=== 

====//Security K//==== 

//Claims of war and conflict are not objective--they are produced by the specific history of the observer and fed upon by teh state in a blind striving for security//
//David Grondin, Masters in Poli Scie and Ph.D. Candidate--University of Ottawa,2004, "(Re)Writing the 'National Security State,' Center for United States Studies, p 12-47)//
//Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices...of existence are generated//

//Securitization is a precondition to genocide--their advantage descriptions will be used to justify massive violence//
//Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, "From Liminars to Others: Securitization Myths,"//
//[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2|[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]]//
//The problem with societal...where truth is never questioned.//

//The role of the ballot should be to assume the position of a critical intellectual//
//Richard Wyn Jones, Professor International Politics @ Aberstwyth University, 99 (Security, Strategy, and Critical Theory, p. 155-163)//
//The central political task of the...a challenge to critical security studies.//

//Framework: Representations must precede policy discussions and shape reality//
//Neta Crawford, PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at Boston University. "Arguments and Change in World Politics", 2002 p. 19-21//
//Coherent arguments are unlikely...Hence framing is a meta-argument.//


=====//Afghanistan Link//===== 

//**Minor shifts in military policy misses the boat – maintaining friend-enemy distinctions makes Afghani violence inevitable**//

//**Crowe 2007 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">York University (L.A., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security -Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’.” http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf) </span>//

//The first element is that...economics enables globalized militarization.//

=====China Link===== 

<span class="Underline">**The affirmative views China as a security threat to be contained or stopped, based on orientalist assumptions which over-inflate China’s goals** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Latham 1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew A., assistant professor in the Department of Political Science at Macalester College, in St. Paul, Minnesota. He has a PhD from Yotk University, Toronto. “China in the contemporary American geopolitical imagination” Asian Affairs: “An American Review, 2001, Academic OneFile)</span> </span>

China in the U.S. Geopolitical Imagination...responsible member of the international community.

=====//Democracy Link//===== 

//**Constructing non-democracies as threats legitimizes intervention against those threats**//

//**Burger and Villumsen 07** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christian and Trine, Journal of International Relations and Development, “Beyond the gap: relevance, fields of practice and the securitizing consequences of (democratic peace) research” pg. 24, https</span>//secure.palgrave-journals.com/jird/journal/v10/n4/full/1800136a.html) 

To give empirical flesh to...a dilemma of vast proportions.

=====Disease Link===== 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our conceptions of health are historically and culturally contingent – they force elimination of a “diseased” Other to protect the state </span></span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Campbell 98 --</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> professor of international politics at the university of Newcastle (David, “Writing Security:</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">United States Foreign Policy and the Politics of Identity</span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">.” University of Minnesota Press, pg. 86-88) </span></span>

What has been and remains...is a foreigner, a stranger.

=====Environment Link===== 

**The 1ACs engagement in green rhetoric throws the left a bone while legitimizing the state as a means to protect against threats**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jon Barnett</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Fellow in the School of Social and Environmental Enquiry at University of Melbourne, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__The Meaning of Environmental Security: Ecological Politics and Policy in the New Security Era__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, pg. 87 p1 – pg. 88 p3) </span>

The NSS, DOD and State Department interpret environmental...in their environmental security pronouncements.

=====Hegemony Link===== 


**The drive for hegemony forces war against populations who resist the “american way”**
**Peet 2005 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Graduate School of Geography, Clark University (Richard, “From Eurocentrism to Americentrism” Blackwell Synergy) </span>

All centrisms see the world...compelling critique of Americentricism.

=====International Law Link===== 

**Action under the guise of international law justifies violence against rogue states who stand against civilization**

<span class="MsoCommentReference">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[#_msocom_1|[CR1]]]</span>**</span>**008**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- </span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor of Human Rights and the Coordinator of the Human Rights Program at Carleton University (Margaret, “</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Human Rights of Others: Sovereignty, Legitimacy, and "Just Causes" for the "War on Terror".” Hypatia: Volume 23, Number 2, Spring 2008. Project MUSE) CMR</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Developments in public international...humanity was the perfect alibi.</span>
----
[[#_msocom_1]]

=====Japan Alliance Link===== 

**Bolstering the Japan alliance is a cover for US ambitions to “secure” Asia as it projects spokes of influence throughout the region**

**Cha 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- </span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">D.S. Song Professor of Government and Asian Studies at Georgetown University and Senior Adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Victor, “</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Powerplay Origins of the U.S. Alliance System in Asia.” //International Security// Volume 34, Number 3, Winter 2009/10, Project Muse) CMR </span>

Why did the United States pursue...limiting the potential for renewed aggression.

=====Korea Link===== 

**The aff dichotomy of North/South Korea relies on a flawed purpose of differentiating “good” korea from “bad” korea – this necessitates elimination of the “bad” Korea**


**Wilson, 91.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rob (Professor of English at the University of Hawaii) Theory's Imaginal Other: American Encounters with South Korea and Japan in boundary 2, Vol. 18, No. 3, Japan in the World (Autumn, 1991), pp. 220-241 </span>

The larger question of textual...North Korea to be known as "Korea" at all.)

=====Prolif Link===== 

**The West creates a hypocritical global proliferation model that privileges western policy and constructs other nation’s proliferation efforts in Orientalist terms that create the problems they seek to prevent**
**Behnke, 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Lecturer of IR at the University of Reading (January, Andreas, “Inscriptions of Imperial Order: NATO's Mediterranean Initiative” http://www.gmu.edu/programs/icar/ijps/vol5_1/behnke.htm) BBL </span>

David Mutimer (1997) has argued that the use of...information with proper conceptual tools.

=====Russia Link===== 

**The affirmatives construction of Russia as a threat turns the world into an item that must be defended – in the global drive to eliminate danger we otherize Russia and turn everyone into a soldier in the war against the Russian enemy**
**__Jæger__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Norwegian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute </span>**__2k__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Øyvind “Securitizing Russia: Discurisve Practices of the Baltic States” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf) </span>

The constitutional ban in all...of the prime external enemy.

=====Terror Link===== 

**Claiming to “solve” terrorism through shifts in military action misses the point – postulating that they are intrinsically evil means we should annihilate them forces wars of intervention – only reevaluating terror solves**

**Noorani 2005 --** <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assistant Professor in Near Eastern Studies at the University of Arizona (Yaseen, “</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Rhetoric of Security.” </span><span class="apple-style-span">//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The New Centennial Review</span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">5.1 (2005) 13-41, Project MUSE) CMR</span></span>

The Bush administration perpetually...for the foreseeable future.

====Hillman K==== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">War is an inevitable part of the human psychology--trying to prevent war only creates a class of individuals who conduct violence illicitly--we are forced to eliminate these individuals for the sake of peace </span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Hillman 04</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 201-205, JB) </span></span>
There remains the wish...hypocrisy of noble proclamations

**The impact is omnicide and war on the psyche**
**Davis ‘1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Walter A, Professor of English at Ohio State University, Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative. State Univesrity of New York Press, p. 95-96 AM)</span>
It is never enough however...Kant's struggle with the sublime

<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">We must embrace war to end </span>**</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Hillman 04</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 125-126, JB) </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> There must be a myth at work...ghosts can't get me </span>
**Next, our framework—the psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it**
**Jung 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, The Undiscovered Self, New American Library, New York, 81-85, AM) </span>
Separation from his instinctual nature...can happen to everyone

=====General Link===== 

**War is inevitable – the aff’s advantages are teddy bears which may comfort in the short term but only delay worse wars**
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Hillman 04</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (James, Psychologist, scholar, international lecturer, originator of post-Jungian archetypal psychology, professor at Yale and the University of Chicago, "The Terrible Love of War", Penguin Press, pg. 214-217, JB) </span></span>

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">There is no</span> practical <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">solution </span>__...love and peace and reason.
====Statism K==== 

The affirmative's governmental policies allow for the state to define what constitutes as a "good" and "bad" citizen. This convinces citizens that their role is to serve the state, which allows the state to gain full control over all people--leads to totalitarianism
**McPherson 4** – Scott (Staff Writer, 23 7, “A Culture of Subservience”, ) 

Should service be the...a culture of subservience

The impact to statism is the state's enabling of its people for its own benefit--this leads to oppression, domination, warfare, and genocide. These impacts are inevitable in the world of the affirmative
**Shaffer 4** (“What is Anarchy? The Freeman: Ideas on Liberty”, www.fee.org/vnews.php?nid=4334, Professor of Law at Southwestern University Law School.) Butler. 

One may answer that freeway...marbled halls and citadels.

We will concede that nobody can truly know everything, which is exactly our point. These decisions that we do not know the outcomes too cannot be left to bureaucrats to decide, which is why you must reject the aff--this is exactly what they do. Vote neg to engage in a single act of refusal to embrace responsibility and freedom from the government that currently runs our lives.
<span class="Underline">**Purchase** **90** - Graham (Teacher in the Department of Traditional and Modern Philosophy @ University of Sydney, “Anarchist Society & Its Practical Realization”, ), 1990. </span>

Revolution is a complex social...our species' continued survival.

=====Revolution Link===== 

<span class="Underline">**All revolutionary actions fail because they are tied to a national idea and require state action**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Martin 90** – PhD, professor in the interdisciplinary area of Science, technology, and society at the University of Wollongong in Australia (London: Freedom Press, “Uprooting War”, 1990), Brian. CJS</span>

<span class="Underline">Many social action campaigns have...conclusion is a bit too hasty.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Social action groups use bureaucracies to promote their beliefs and organize themselves but can’t ever solve because they don’t look at our use of government and bureaucracies**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Martin 90** – PhD, professor in the interdisciplinary area of Science, technology, and society at the University of Wollongong in Australia (London: Freedom Press, “Uprooting War”, 1990), Brian. CJS</span>

<span class="Underline">For most social action groups...to become bureaucratized themselves.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Focusing on the root cause of war through social revolution only subconsciously strengthens the state by not actually solving the problem** </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">**Martin 90** – PhD, professor in the interdisciplinary area of Science, technology, and society at the University of Wollongong in Australia (London: Freedom Press, “Uprooting War”, 1990), Brian. CJS</span></span>

Focusing on the roots of...than attempting to transform them.

===Counterplans=== 

====Six Party Talks Counterplan==== 
CP Text: The United States federal government should end all arms sales to Taiwan with the condition that China pushes North Korea in the 6-Party Talks.

China wants the US to end arms sales to Taiwan; this is the key barrier to relations
AP 10 (10 1, "China urges US to end arms sales to Taiwan", 
http://www.deseretnews.com/article/705357419/China-urges-US-to-end-arms-sales-to-Taiwan.html)
China has reiterated its opposition...according to the Xinhua News Agency

Arms sales area major barrier to Sino-US relations
Lum 10 (12 3, "U.S.-China Relations: Policy Issues", 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/content~db=all~content=a915184713, Specialist in Asian Affairs, Congressional Research Service), </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">U.S. arms sales to Taiwan...involved in the arms sales </span>
====Bilateral Defense Counterplan==== 
**CP TEXT: The United States federal government should negotiate a bilateral defense treaty with the government of Afghanistan that unequivocally commits to removing the Taliban from Afghanistan. The United States federal government should adopt a counterinsurgency strategy that is primarily centered on protecting the Afghanistan population, and should provide all necessary resources to implement this strategy, including making the surge part of a permanent commitment to Afghanistan and clarifying that it has no withdrawal deadline. The United States federal government should create, fund, and support a 15 month enlistment period for the United States armed forces, including support for college and other funding, without an eight year stop-loss obligation. The United States should freeze the size of its training commitment to the Afghan National Army and focus on training for quality over quantity, locating ANA divisions in their local provinces, and training an ANA helicopter division for mobile operations. The United States federal government should create a long-term strategy for the development of the Modern Silk Road where trade with Afghanistan is the foundation for this approach and generate incentives to invest in this project. This effort should be linked with the Northern Distribution Network. The United States federal government should pressure local governments to decrease unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles to trade. The United States federal government should provide significant monetary aid to Pakistan for the purpose of aiding Pakistan’s recovery from flood damage in addition to significant sustainable aid for the purpose of general development. The United States federal government should pressure the Afghani government to levy official taxes on trade.**

**The counterplan formalizes the US commitment to Afghanistan, gets Pakistan on board and demoralizes the Taliban – they can no longer wait us out**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lynch, 08</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- U.S. Army Colonel</span><span class="Heading1Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">, </span></span><span class="bio"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX)</span> </span>
In mid-January, Defense Secretary...ducked for far too long

**Shifting to a population centered counterinsurgency mission solves the problem of Taliban recruiting and attrition tactics - it’s empirically effective**
**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf]]) 
Reorienting the counterinsurgency campaign...quite inhospitable to their operations

**The counterplan solves overstretch – <span class="Underline">Shortening the enlistment time would significantly increase the number of recruits and the quality – study on college campus </span>**
<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">Moskos, 02</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Northwestern University Sociology Professor, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars Fellow (September 2002, Charles, “Reviving the Citizen-Soldier,” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0377/is_2002_Spring/ai_84557330/?tag=content;col1 ) WX </span>
Even though recruitment goals for the active...civilian life than in the military

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Modern Silk Road is vital to longer term stability and success in Afghanistan </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kuchins et al 10</span></span> - Senior Fellow and Director of the CSIS Russia and Eurasia Program (Andrew, Thomas Sanderson - Deputy Director and Senior Fellow in the CSIS Transnational Threats Project, David Gordon - Research Assistant and Program Coordinator, “Afghanistan: Building the Missing Link in the Modern Silk Road,” April, Washington Quarterly, http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_KuchinsSandersonGordon.pdf, EMM)
Achieving the Modern Silk Road is as much...in the hart of Eurasia

====Consult China CP==== 

Text: the United States federal government should propose that it_ __with the People's Republic of China for binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation.__

__US must engage with China at every opportunity--the alt is war__
__**Maginnis 5/20 --** <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">retired Army lieutenant colonel, a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television and a senior strategist with the U.S. Army</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robert, Human Events, “China's High Seas Aggression.” <span style="color: black;">http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=37081</span>) CMR </span>__

__Finally, the U.S. ought to...cold war or worse.__

__The plan's unilateral action kills China's peaceful rise--only the CP solves relations and war__
__<span class="Underline">**Bandow, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO) </span></span>__

__In the case of...economic and geopolitical ambitions.__

__War escalates__
__<span class="Heading2Char3">The Strait Times, 2000 </span>[“No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis]__

__The high-intensity scenario...sovereignty above everything else.__


====Consolidation Counterplan==== 
__CP Text: The United States federal government should consolidate its military bases in Okinawa.__

__Counterplan solves--full scale comprehensive fixes to the problems in Okinawa seriously address the concerns of Okinawa and theUS-Japan alliance__
__<span style="color: black; text-align: justify;">Robert **Eldridge** (Ph.D. Director, U.S.-Japan Alliance Affairs Division </span>__
__<span style="color: black; text-align: justify;">Center for International Security Studies and Policy (CISSP), School of International Public Policy, Osaka University (OSIPP)) **05** (9/24, Toward a Viable, Comprehensive, Long-term Approach to the Okinawa Basing Issue and the True Strengthening of the Alliance, OSIPP, http://www2.osipp.osaka-u.ac.jp/~eldridge/) </span>__

__Today, full-scale surgery is...than the current rudderless discussions.__

====Humanitarian PIC==== 

//**TEXT: The United States federal government should** <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;">eliminate its military and police presence in Afghanistan</span> **except for operations that provide food, water and medical aid to people living in Afghanistan.**

**The United States should continue these operations – distinct from stabilization operations that people hate.**

**Donini 2009 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Researcher, Feinstein Center, Tufts University (Antonio, “ Afghanistan: Humanitarianism under Threat.” Briefing paper, Humanitarian Agenda 2015: Principles, Power, and Perceptions. </span>[[http://wikis.uit.tufts.edu/confluence/download/attachments/22520580/Donini-Afghanistan.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) CMR </span>**

**Our findings suggest that...****where urgent attention is needed.**

**In Afghanistan these humanitarian operations saves lives from starvation**

**Donini 2009 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Researcher, Feinstein Center, Tufts University (Antonio, “ Afghanistan: Humanitarianism under Threat.” Briefing paper, Humanitarian Agenda 2015: Principles, Power, and Perceptions. </span>[[http://wikis.uit.tufts.edu/confluence/download/attachments/22520580/Donini-Afghanistan.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) CMR </span>**

**There is no __humanitarian consensus__...****__<span style="background-color: yellow;">the future of humanitarianism worldwide.</span>__**//

===Disads=== 

====<span style="text-align: left;">SK Deterrence DA </span>==== 

__<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The US is deterring adversaries in East Asia now--military exercises</span>__
__<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">AFP 8/19 ("US steps up pressure on NKorea with anti-submarine drill." </span>__
__[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5gpnhizv9ZJ8-5-lY94QbeP0zjk8w]])__

__<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">The United States and South Korea...which occurred with Cheonan </span>__

__<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">W/d causes Japan to nuclearize, turns China conflict and turns Korean conflict</span>__
__<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Dao 3 (1/5/2003, James, NY Times, "Why Keep US Troops in South Korea?" </span>__
__http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html)__

__<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Withdrawing forces in Korea would...they see in the region </span>__

__<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT </span>__
__**Halloran, 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That anxiety has reinvigorated...</span>under the US nuclear umbrella__

__Nuclear War__
__**Cimbala, 2008**__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld] </span>__

__<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> If the possibility existed of a...of major interstate warfare </span>__

=====2NC Troops Key===== 
__**Troops key – commitment, perception – star this card**__

__**Ledwith 2002** – Masters Paper in Military Studies @ US Marine Corps Command and Staff College (Sioban J., “US Forces Korea: The Key to Cooperative Stability and Security in Northeast Asia.” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA404030]]) CMR__

__The <span style="background-color: yellow;">forward stationing of troops … for regional peace</span> and progress.__

__**Ground troops are a “combat multiplier” – turns Korean conflict, gives access to air and navy**__

__**Ledwith 2002** – Masters Paper in Military Studies @ US Marine Corps Command and Staff College (Sioban J., “US Forces Korea: The Key to Cooperative Stability and Security in Northeast Asia.” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA404030]]) CMR__

__The <span style="background-color: yellow;">forward deployed</span> presence <span style="background-color: yellow;">of</span> … from the continental United States.__

__**Permanently stationing ground troops key … credibility of the nuclear umbrella**__

__**Payne, et. al, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,”</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]], JMP) </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">Forward Deployments </span>__

__<span style="background-color: yellow;">The forward presence of U.S.</span> military … <span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">as contributing to regional stability.57 </span>__


=====2NC Turns Korea===== 
__**DPRK is not benign – each previous withdrawal has increased North Korean hostility**__

__**Ledwith 2002**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Masters Paper in Military Studies @ US Marine Corps Command and Staff College (Sioban J., “US Forces Korea: The Key to Cooperative Stability and Security in Northeast Asia.” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA404030]]) CMR</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">More importantly was the way … </span>another war on the peninsula<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__

__**Withdrawal would embolden DPRK**__

__**Davino 2004** – Colonel, US Army (Michael, “SHOULD THE U.S. CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN FORCES IN KOREA?” U.S. Army War College, Google Scholar) CMR__

__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the region’s economy and … </span>allies and the **North Koreans**.__


=====2NC Russia===== 
__**US withdrawal causes China to make land grabs on the Russia Far East**__

__**Wimbush 2008 --** Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C. (S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down.” In “What If? A World without the U.S.-ROK Alliance.” Ed. Eberstadt et al, Google Scholar) CMR NOTE: THIS IS A HYPOTHETICAL, “WHAT IF” ARTICLE THAT POSTULATES WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF THE US WITHDREW__

__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russia’s support, Japanese strategists concluded, … managing North Korea’s nuclear ambitions. </span>**__

__This escalates__

__**Nathan** Nankivell**, Senior Researcher – Special Adviser Policy for Maritime Forces Pacific HQ, Canada,** 2006 **(Asian Research, <span style="color: #3366bb;">[[http://www.asianresearch.org/articles/2758.html]]</span>)**__

__**Finally, China’s seemingly insatiable appetite … third nations must be considered.**__
__**Territorial Expansion or Newfound Alliances**__
__**In addition to the concerns …** two powerful, nuclear-equipped nations.__

__Extinction__

__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alexander </span>**Sharavin**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Director of the Political and Military Analysis Institute, </span>**2001**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (What The Papers Say (Russia), Nezavisimoe Voennoe Obozrenie, No. 28, “The Third Threat,” Translated by Andrei Ryabochkin) </span>**__

__**Chinese propaganda has constantly been … frost of a** possible nuclear winter**.**__


====<span style="text-align: left;">Politics--Obama Good SKFTA</span>==== 
__South Korea Free Trade Agreement will pass but political capital is key to smooth out disagreements over auto and beef__

__**Nasdaq 11/3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Barkley of Dow Jones News, “Obama Could Set Political Tone At Home With South Korean Trade Deal.” http://www.nasdaq.com/aspx/stock-market-news-story.aspx?storyid=201011031138dowjonesdjonline000533&title=obama-could-set-political-tone-at-home-with-south-korean-trade-deal</span>**)** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">CMR </span>__

__When Presidents Barack Obama returns...on taxes and trade__

__Link--Plan Unpopular__

__KORUS solves warming__
__**Kim 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – policy analyst, heritage foundation (Anthony, “Time to Build a Clean Energy Future through the KORUS FTA.” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/06/Time-to-Build-a-Clean-Energy-Future-through-the-KORUS-FTA) CMR</span>__


__The pending Korea-U.S. Free...both countries would benefit__

__Extinction__
__**Cummins and Allen ‘10** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6]]</span>)__


__The hour is late...maintain "business as usual."__

=====Afghanistan Link===== 
__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Afghanistan reduction will destroy Obama’s political capital </span></span>__
__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ANDERSON 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Kenneth, an astronomer who has worked on a number of NASA projects, devotes his scientific training to observations and inferences about current affairs, politics and the media, “Change and the Chosen Path” The Public Record, Dec 7 -- lexis] </span>__

__If this does go down...the lives of millions more.__

__**Any Afghanistan policy will be controversial**__

__**Biddle 2009** -- <span class="apple-style-span">Senior Fellow for Defense Policy, Council on Foreign Relations (Stephen, “</span><span class="title">Is It Worth It?</span><span class="subtitle">The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan.” </span>[[http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617]]) CMR__

__Public opinion is beginning...tunnel, for President Obama.__


=====Generic Link===== 
__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal’s unpopular </span></span>__
__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ENGELHARDT 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Tom, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com , “Yes, We Could…. Get Out! – Why we won’t leave Afghanistan or Iraq” Atlantic Free Press -- lexis] </span>__

__Have you noticed, by the...in the years to come.__

__**Unpopular in congress**__
__<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dayen 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [David Dayen, “Defense Spending Cuts Face Likely Congressional Override,” Monday May 17, 2010 9:18 am, http://news.firedoglake.com/2010/05/17/defense-spending-cuts-face-likely-congressional-override/] </span>__

__<span class="underline">The lesson of Congress</span> in the...don't need new engines.__


=====South Korea Link===== 
__**Withdrawal would be massively unpopular – several reasons**__
__**Harrison 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Selig, Director of the Asia Program at the Center for International Policy, is a senior scholar of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and director of the Century Foundation’s Project on the United States and the Future of Korea. He has specialized in South Asia and East Asia for fifty years as a journalist and scholar and is the author of six books on Asian affairs and U.S. relations with Asia, Baluch expert and left wing theorist at the Carnegie Institute. Former managing editor of The New Republic, Former senior fellow in charge of Asian studies at the Brookings Institution, Senior fellow at the East-West Center and Lecturer in Asian studies at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, Adjunct professor of Asian studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University, “Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement”, p. 181-182) </span>__

Why has <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the presence of</span>...__in the United States.

====Guam Redeployment DA==== 

No Guam deployment now
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kan and Niksch 10</span></span> (Shirley A. Kan, Specialist in Asian Security Affairs, Larry A. Niksch, Specialist in Asian Affairs, January 19, 2010, “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments”, Congressional Research Service, Lexis |JC) 
In May 2006, the United...this promise to decide by May.

Okinawan troops will be moved to Guam--Navy report proves
Kensei<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Yoshida** </span>6/28/**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>**, "Okinawa and Guam: In the Shadow of US and Japanese 'Global Defense Posture'", Retired U of Tokyo Professor in US Politics, author of 'Democracy Betrayed, Okinawa Under US Occupation'. 
http://japanfocus.org/-Yoshida-Kensei/3378

To meet the "pressing...interests in the Pacific region."

Redeployment to guam causes genocide of the Chamorro people
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFP 2010</span>** 1-22 "US Military build-up on Guam worries islanders" http://www.asiaone.com/News/AsiaOne+News/World/Story/A1Story20100122-193753.html 

"This proposed military build...Japan during World War II.

====India Relations DA==== 

US-India relations high--Obama's visit
**Times of India 10/14** (“India looking at Obama's visit with great hope, optimism: Envoy.” http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/India-looking-at-Obamas-visit-with-great-hope-optimism-Envoy/articleshow/6745712.cms) CMR 
People of India are...provided by Indian Embassy in Washington.

Plan kills India relations--perceived as undermining commitment
**Kaplan 2010** – senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security (August 2010, Robert D., “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict,”www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf) 

He or she who sits...we perform in Afghanistan.

Relations key to democracy promotion
**Ayoob, 2k** – distinguished professor of international relations at Michigan State University (Mohammed, Winter 2000, The Washington Quarterly, accessed via Project Muse)

Furthermore, the recent emphasis...plane of understanding and cooperation.

Extinction and turns case
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diamond, 95 </span> </span>
[Larry Diamond, a professor, lecturer, adviser, and author on foreign policy, foreign aid, and democracy. 
“Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict”, December 1995, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm] 

This hardly exhausts the...prosperity can be built.