[[toc]]
=Contact= 
For additional cites or requests email: [[mailto:aznplkomijn@gmail.com|aznplkomijn@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 

==Plan Texts== 
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should withdraw all of its military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture in Japan.**

**<span style="font-family: Symbol,sans-serif;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should end the deployment of US Marine Corps troops on Okinawa Prefecture </span>**
==Okinawa 1AC - Wake Forest== 
**Contention 1 is Inherency:**

**The US has retracted it’s promise to remove troops from Okinawa**
<span class="Heading2Char">Ogawa 7/24</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Satoshi Ogawa, Yomiuri Shimbun Newspaper Correspondent “U.S. marines' Guam move seen delayed / Futenma plan also could be jeopardized”. 7-24-10 http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/national/T100723005957.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON--</span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; border: medium none; font-size: 10pt;">The U.S.</span><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 10pt;"> government </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; border: medium none; font-size: 10pt;">has</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;"> effectively </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; border: medium none; font-size: 10pt;">… </span></span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">with the relocation to Guam.</span>__

**Current Domestic turmoil in Japan risks further alliance stagnation**
<span class="Heading2Char">Harris 7/16</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tobias Harris, doctoral student in political science at the MIT, Newsweek. 7-16-10 “Japan-U.S. Relations Could Get Bumpy” http://www.newsweek.com/2010/07/16/a-fragile-alliance.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A mere month later</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; border: medium none; font-size: 10pt;">Japan … continue<span style="border: medium none;"> to face serious obstacles</span></span><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>


**Contention 2 is: The Environment**

**Scenario 1 is Coral Reefs:**

**US military presence on Okinawa will kill the most biologically dive**rse region in the world
<span class="Heading2Char">Center for Biological Diversity 09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Is a nonprofit membership organization with approximately 220,000 members and online activsts, known for its work protecting endangered species through legal action and scientific petitions, Dec. 3rd, “RE: PROPOSED U.S. MILITARY AIR BASE EXPANSION NEAR HENOKO, OKINAWA . http://www.biologicaldiversity.org/species/mammals/Okinawa_dugong/pdfs/dugongletter.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The island of </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Okinawa</span>__ __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">has … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">in 2010 and years to come. </span>

**The loss of the coral reefs causes a chain reaction of extinctions within the ocean, mass hunger, and poverty**
<span class="Author-Date">Red Orbit 10</span> (Staff Writer March 26 2010 Coral Reef Extinction Could Have Catastrophic Effect) [[http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/index.html]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Were that to occur, the… maintain food security around the world."</span>

**And, independently, each species loss gets us one step closer to extinction.**
<span class="Heading2Char">Diner 94</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (David was a Major in JAG Corps, Military Law Review. “The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who’s Endangering Whom? 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, L/N)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By causing widespread extinctions, humans … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">edging closer to the abyss</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Food shortages cause extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char">Winnail 96</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Douglas S., Ph.D., MPH, “On the Horizon”: Famine, From the World Ahead, Sep/Oct, http://www.survivalplus.com/foods/page0004.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps you have been too … to morally act to fight it.</span>

**Without healthy oceans all human life will end.**
<span class="Heading2Char">Craig 03</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Robin Kundis, Associate Prof Law, Indiana U School Law, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments … </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">most of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the biosphere with us.</span></span>__

**Scenario 2 is Warming:**

**US – Japan cooperation will be successful at creating multilateral solutions to global warming.**
<span class="Heading2Char">EoJ 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Embassy of Japan “Overview of Japan-U.S. Relations” 2-08 http://www.us.emb-japan.go.jp/english/html/japanus/japanusoverview2009.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5) Global Warming On February 14, 2002, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">… </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joint Nuclear Energy Action Plan</span>

**Specifically, the cooperation fostered from interaction on mutual __alliance issues­__ solves Warming**
<span class="Heading2Char">Calder 2/1</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kent E. Calder, Director of Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, 02/01/2010 “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.</span>‐<span style="font-size: 8pt;">JAPAN COOPERATION”, [[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]])</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Active <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">U.S.</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">‐</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">Japan cooperation on energy … </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">political interests in both countries.</span></span>

**Extinction**
<span class="Heading2Char">Tickell 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Oliver Tickell, British journalist, author and campaigner on health and environment issues, and author of the Kyoto2 climate initiative “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction,” The Guardian, 8-11-08 http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">We need to get prepared … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">us towards</span> a similar <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">hothouse Earth.</span></span></span>

**And, Comparatively, warming is the biggest impact, everything else is reversible**
<span class="Heading2Char">NYET 06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (New York End Times, Non-Partisan News Filter Monitoring World Events Pertaining to Extinction, “The Extinction Scale”, 10-16-2006, [[@http://newyorkendtimes.com/extinctionscale.asp]])</span>

__<span style="color: black;">We rate Global Climate Change … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">to incorporate the dangers here. </span>

**Contention 3 is: The Alliance**

**The Okinawa Issue is the key obstacle to restructuring the alliance to one of equality**
**Bandow, 5/12/10** (Doug, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” Cato Institute, pg online @ **<span style="font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804]]</span>** //ag)

__Making fewer promises to intervene … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">time for Washington to deliver</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Equality is the key step toward proper alliance management and effectiveness – the redefinition creates a framework for Asian Stability**</span>
<span class="Heading2Char">Cronin 09</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ([[http://www.cnas.org/node/3614|Patrick M. Cronin]] 11/13/2009, “[[@http://www.feer.com/international-relations/20098/november53/The-Looming-Crisis-in-U.S.-Japan-Relations|The Looming Crisis in U.S.-Japan Relations]]” Far Eastern Economic Review Patrick Cronin is a Senior Advisor and Senior Director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security (CNAS). Previously, he was the Director of the Institute for National Strategic Studies (INSS) at National Defense University. In 2001, he was confirmed by the Senate to the third-ranking position at the U.S. Agency for International Development. Dr. Cronin was an adjunct professor at Georgetown University’s Security Studies Program, The Johns Hopkins University’s Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), and the University of Virginia’s Woodrow Wilson Department of Government. He read International Relations at St Antony’s College, University of Oxford, where he received both his M.Phil. and D.Phil. degrees, and graduated with high honors from the University of Florida. [[http://www.cnas.org/node/3736]] )</span>

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The alliance</span> and treaty…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, training and operations. </span>

**A reshaped alliance prevents multiple instances of nuclear war.**
<span class="Heading2Char">Armitage et al. 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard L. Armitage Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye, fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)</span>

Asia, in the throes of … foundation for the 21st century. 

**Equity is comparatively better than US unilateralism at creating Asian stability.**
William E. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rapp</span></span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Brigadier General William E. Rapp graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University. “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span></span>

Finally, as the partnership deepens, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 10pt;">… </span></span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">future security environment of Asia.</span>__

**Plan is a prerequisite to the relations needed to deter North Korea and China and create peace in the region**
**Katsumata and Shimbun 2/5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior writers for Daily Yomiuri ( Hidemichi and Yomiuri, 2/5/10, “ Deterrence part of Futenma issue”, [[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100218dy03.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Starting with a proposal to integrate it with the U.S. Kadena Air Base, Japan and the United States have discussed, both formally and informally, various options on where to relocate the U.S. Marine Corps' Futenma Air Station in Ginowan, Okinawa Prefecture. </span>

__The biggest issue has been <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">… </span>Japan and the United States.__



**Contention 4 is: Solvency**

**Troop removal is a critical symbolic precedent for a transition to a more equitable US-Japan Alliance**
<span class="Heading2Char">Feffer 5/6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John Feffer, Ph.D. co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, taught an international conflict graduate course at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul, lectured at NYU and Cornell. 5-6-10, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> You'd think that, with … </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the costs of the alliance.</span></span>
**Withdrawal ends the Okinawa issue which is crucial for the political sustainability of the alliance.**
<span class="Heading2Char">Chantlett-Avery 09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Congressional Research Service, Emma Chanlett-Avery, an Analyst in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade division of CRS and Weston S. Konishi Analyst in Asian Affairs, CRS. “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests” 7-23-09)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Okinawa as Focus of Realignment … the Guam relocation plans by 2014.</span>
== == 
==Kan Politics Advantage== 

**No domestic agreement on Okinawa now – disagreements over runways and specifics of relocation**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kawaguchi 9/2</span></span> (KENTARO KAWAGUCHI, KEIICHI KANEKO AND HIROSHI ITO THE ASAHI SHIMBUN, 9/2/10, asahi.com)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tokyo and Washington released a report … Okinawa gubernatorial election in November. </span>

**These disagreements ruined Hatoyama’s leadership – it will kill Kan’s credibility if he doesn’t move soon**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Irish Times 10 </span></span>(Irish Times, 6/3/10, “Resignations in Japan”, ebsco)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">With fewer than one in … over HIV-tainted blood products.</span>

**The credibility gained from a win on Okinawa is key for Kan to restore collapsing relations with China, preventing conflict and stabilizing the region**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ito 10 </span></span>(Masami Ito, Japan Times, 6/5/10, “Kan needs to balance U.S. ties, China's clout”, ebsco)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The new administration Prime Minister … </span><span class="boldunderline">to be antagonizing each other.</span>

**Japan-China conflict ruins SE Asian stability, collapses US Heg, causes global war, and kills the economy.**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Soerenson 6</span></span> (Camilla T.N. Soerensen, research fellow at the Department of Political Science, University of Copenhagen, Asian Perspective, 30:3, 2006, 99-128, "Strategic triangularity in northeast asia: the sino-japanese security relationship and U.s. policy")
<span class="underline">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">deterioration in the Sino-… </span>the Sino-Japanese security relationship.</span>


=Negative= 
Coming Soon...
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]