=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
__**<span style="font-size: 140%;">South Korea (Valley)</span>**__
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 1: The Status Quo </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Beginning in 1945 US troops have been stationed in South Korea. Since that time brothels and “massages parlors” have been used by American troops while on active duty. These brothels and “massage parlors” remain prevalent in the areas surrounding US military bases despite threats of court martial and making clubs off limits </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kloer</span>**</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">, <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Feb. 9, </span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 115%;">20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">**10**</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> (Amanda, “Sex Trafficking High Around U.S. Military Bases Abroad” http://humantrafficking.change.org/blog/view/sex_trafficking_high_around_us_military_bases_abroad)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Serving in the United States military is about honor</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">….</span></span> __<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Korean government policy</span> </span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The South Koreans who have worked and continue to work in as military prostitutes are disowned from their families and society for leading “tainted dirty shameful” lives leaving these South Koreans exiled from the population. The mere presence of the US military in South Korea perpetuates this growing underclass of South Koreans ignored by society and the stereotype that prostitution is “part of Asian culture” </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">**Moon 09** - <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Wellesley College professor (Katharine H.S. “Military Prostitution and the U.S. Military in Asia” in The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus. Posted on January 17, 2009. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/margins-to-centre/2009-January/001668.html]]<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, MT) </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Where there are soldiers…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> Kids at Amerasian transit center, Ho Chi Minh City, 1992 </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The stereotype that Asian women are exotic, accommodating, and sexually compliant is due in large part to the US militaries hegemonic masculine culture that teaches its soldiers to dehumanize others as part of their preparation for war </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kirk</span>** **<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">2008</span>**</span></span> <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">(Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">__<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Violence against women is pervasive</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">… </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">legal, political, economic, and social structures</span> </span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The hegemonic masculine culture of the US military has lead to the rationalization and legitimization of violence and rape at a higher rate in South Korean than other countries in which the US has a military presence </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**Lee, 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Chang-Hun, Department of Criminal Justice, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, “Institutionalized Hegemonic Masculinity and Rape by United States Army Personnel in South Korea: A Perspective on Military Subculture”, Asian Criminology Journal, http://www.springerlink.com/content/3r2341331x22g936/fulltext.pdf</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">__<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Studies have found that the</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none; textunderline: none;">… </span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">times more likely to commit rape</span> </span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The US military presence in South Korea has allowed the exploitation of women and children by creating a dispensable class of military prostitutes. These notions have been fueled by primitive western assumptions of annexation, colonization, exploitation, and war. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kirk, 2008</span>**</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__The power dynamics of militarism… that reinforce gender stereotypes__ </span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**Continuance of patriarchy justifies the continuation of rape, domestic violence, environmental destruction, war, and dehumanization. It must take precedence** </span></span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**Warren & Cady 94**</span></span> <span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">(Karen & Duane, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing Connections”, Hypatia Volume: 9. Issue: 2, pp 4, DJ </span></span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy… connections in regional, national and global contexts. </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;">Thus the Plan: The United States Federal Government should remove all military presence in South Korea </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Observation 2: A chance for hope </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">The targets of gender violence are living symbols of and epitomize the relationship between the US and Korea, only through the withdrawal of US bases from South Korea can the liberation from the sexual domination of the American GI begin </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">**Moon 97**</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Katharine H.S., Department of Political Science and Chair of Asian Studies @ Wellesley College, “Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S./Korea Relations”, 1997, Columbia University Press</span> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt;">I think <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__there is__ </span></span>yet <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__another…__ </span></span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__the sexual domination of the GI.__ </span></span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">We understand that there is no panacea for militarism, however united by the threads of hope and a vision for a different future it is paramount to begin to de-link masculinity and militarism </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Kirk, 2008</span>**</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;"> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__Militarism is a system of institutions… and to act accordingly.__</span> </span></span>



__**<span style="font-size: 150%;">Animal Soldiers (Fremont- Mills)</span>**__

**OBSERVATION ONE: INHERENCY:**
**The military’s use of animals, especially dogs, in military combat has continued to increase so dogs are harmed and regarded as nothing more than units of production by the military.**
**Tan 2011** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Tan, Michelle. "Working dogs get heavy use in war zones." AirForceTimes. N.p., 3 Jan. 2010. Web. 3 Jan. 2011.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; line-height: 115%;">They can be cute and cuddly….. [here at the schoolhouse].” </span>

**The trauma of war has taken its toll on the animals. In canines specifically, the dogs are suffering from post-traumatic stress. Despite all of this, dogs are given medication to “fix” them so they can be put back into combat zones and used for human purposes.**
**Tan Dec 30** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Tan, Michelle. "Dogs bring home war’s stress, too." //ArmyTimes//. N.p., 30 Dec. 2010. Web. 3 Jan. 2011.</span>
**__Dogs suffer from post-traumatic…..__**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> how we’re treating the dogs.” </span>

**The military has historically categorized military animals as equipment no different from a shell casing or a gun, stripping the animals of their classification as living creatures.**
**Emmers 99** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Emmers, Bob. "Let Rest the Dogs of War." //Orange Coast// Nov. 1999: 111. Web.</span>
**__As American involvement in……__**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> in rank and ordered home </span>

**OBSERVATION TWO: THE PROPERTY CATEGORY**
**Deeming animals as objects and property without value and being justifies any atrocity against animals. Such thinking has consequences, legal and moral, which must be faced if we seek a more just future.**
**Bartlett 02**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">, (Steven J. completed his undergraduate work at the University of Santa Clara, received his master's degree from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and his doctorate from the Université de Paris.,‘Roots of Human Resistance to Animal Rights: Psychological and Conceptual Blocks’</span>
**__Animals are property. These……__**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> standing doctrines, and so on. [FN10] </span>

**Deeming animals as property of war not only forces the animal to be devalued but also allows the devaluation of others as evident in the usage of dogs during torture and interrogation.**
**<span style="color: black;">History Commons 03</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 9.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> Torture, Rendition, and other Abuses against Captives in US Custody ."</span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 9.0pt; line-height: 115%;">History Commons</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 9.0pt; line-height: 115%;">. N.p., 20 Nov. 2003. Web. 2 Feb. 2011.</span>
**__Dog teams arrive….__**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> none of which [are] fulfilled </span>

**The reduction of animals to objects is the same logic that has justified the slaughter of millions of humans. We are doomed to continue committing atrocities and genocide until we stop viewing living beings as property.**
**Bartlett 2002**, <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">(Steven J. completed his undergraduate work at the University of Santa Clara, received his master's degree from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and his doctorate from the Université de Paris.,‘Roots of Human Resistance to Animal Rights: Psychological and Conceptual Blocks’) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">In the traditional homocentric….</span> **__socially appointed work in prisons.__**

**The view that non human animals are irrational and do not deserve respect is at the root of biopolitical control.**
**Wadiwell** **<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">02</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;"> (Joseph W., doctorate candidate @ Univ. of Western Sydney, “Cows and Sovereignty”, Borderlands, 1:2) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">But how does the…..</span> **__life within its domain__**.

**THUS THE PLAN: The United States federal government should immediately suspend the use and deployment of all non human animals within the combat zones of Iraq and Afghanistan**

**OBSERVATION THREE: SOLVENCY**
**Until respect is given to animals, atrocities will continue. Changes in policy and law are crucial for actual change.**
**Brower 04** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">Brower, Charles. "The lives of animals, the lives of prisoners, and the revelations of Abu Ghraib." Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law. N.p., - Nov. 2004. Web. 2 Feb. 2011. **http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb3577/is_5_37/ai_n29147994/**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">When studying public…..</span> **__guarantees of humane treatment.__**

**Our plan is key to stop the devaluation of life and promote justice.**
**Francione 96**, <span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">(Gary is a professor at The Rutgers University School of Law, ‘Animal Rights: The/’ Future’, World Prat Assembly, DLD: December 27th 2010, http://www.worldproutassembly.org/archives/2005/04/animal_rights_t.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; line-height: 115%;">If the animal rights movement….</span> **__and for the planet.__**

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]