[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">STOCK AC-</span>**

<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Ought = moral oblig, Value = Morality. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Not means neg must prove converse of rez true. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Presume aff because moral neutrality lies w/ aff due to neg wording of rez. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Moral Skepticism aff ground b/c prove absence of moral oblig. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">VC- Min Imposition of Suffering</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. Suffering most immoral thing in this world. </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Robert Meister [Professor, UC Santa Cruz]. “NEVER AGAIN; THE ETHICS OF THE NEIGHBOR AND THE LOGIC OF GENOCIDE.” 2005. [[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/pmc/v015/15.2meister.html]]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“In ethical discussions… of all immorality”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">2. Contractural oblig to govt force the govt to min suffering towards its own ppl</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">3. Emotions helps us prescribe moral truths and value ideals, preclude skepticism args. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Franco Carnvale [McGill U, Prof of Bioethics Dept]. “A Conceptual and Moral Analysis of Suffering.” //Nursing Ethics.// March 2009, vol 16 no 2. “Nussbaum has noted… to the person”</span>
C1- Deterrence fails b/c creates an unstable world, ppl constantly suffer. Krieger
“Nuclear Deterrence, Missile Defenses, and Global Instability.” April 2001. [President of Nuke Age Peace Fndtion, Board Member of Lawyers Committee on Nuke Policy, published over 20 papers on nukes]. Nuke Age Peace Foundation. [[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/04/00_krieger_nuclear-deterrence.htm]]
“Security built upon… It undermines it”

Empirically fail in Israel. Wilson
“The Myth of Nuclear Deterrence” NonProliferation Review, Vol 15, No 3, November 2008. Researcher @ Belfer Center for Science and Intl Affairs @ Harvard. [[http://cns.miis.edu/npr/pdfs/153_wilson.pdf]]
“The case of… Syria was deterred”

C2- Bomb makes it impossible to focus on poor people. Stegnega 
“The Immorality of Nuclear Weapons.” //Contemporary Security Politics,// Volume 4, Issue 1, 1983, pgs 65-72. [Professor of Pol Science @ Purdue U].
“Ethicists and others… tolerate, even support.” 

Empirics- N. Korea. Library Index. “Poverty in the Developing World- North Korea.” [Reference source collected by Net Industries]. [[http://www.libraryindex.com/pages/2678/Poverty-in-Developing-World-NORTH-KOREA.html]]
“The decision to… foreign economic support”

Impact- poverty, bad in terms of mag. James Gilligan 
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Gilligan, 96’ [James, Faculty of Dept of Psychiatry @ Harvard Med School, Former Director of Mental Health for the Massachusetts Prison System, close studies on violence, Violence, p.] </span>

“In other words… throughout the world”

==Negative== 
**Stats Neg-** 
V- Morality

Amitai Etzioni “Security First: For a Muscular, Moral Philosophy.” Yale University Press 2007.
“However, I must.. tortured or maimed.”
VC- protecting national security interests

Prefer empirics because 1) go back and forth w/ analytical warrants and 2) infinite variables as to how states can act.

Reduce Interstate conflict. Asal and Beardeley 1 “Winning with the Bomb.” Journal of Conflict Resolution. April, 2009. vol 53, no 2. 278-301
“Starting from a… a nuclear strike.” 

Deter war = protect nat security interests. 

Prefer b/c specific to deterrence + objective. Asal and Beardley 2 
“To study the… the deterrence literature”

Fits the definition of an actor in crisis, also another reason to prefer. 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]