AFFIRMATIVE

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text: </span>The United States federal government should withdraw its ground presence from the Republic of Korea.**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adv 1 - Chinese Relations</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. China’s rise is coming now, US reaction will determine if there are power wars</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ikenberry 08</span>-** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">G. JOHN IKENBERRY is Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University and the author of After Victory: Institutions, Strategic Restraint, and the Rebuilding of Order After Major Wars. The Rise of China and the Future of the West, Foreign Affairs; Jan/Feb2008, Vol. 87 Issue 1, p23-37, [[http://web.ebscohost.com/src/detail?vid=7&hid=15&sid=58a8d697-3e33-443c-8fb0-6724df25c376%40sessionmgr12&bdata=JnNpdGU9c3JjLWxpdmU%3d#db=ulh&AN=28018827]] EBSCO</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Can the Liberal System Survive?</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">THE RISE of China will … -centered international order than Germany </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[CONTINUED NO TEXT REMOVED]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">was. But even more decisive … </span>__be in place to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">receive it.</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2. Withdrawal from South Korea is the only way a peaceful transition can occur. And now is the key time, waiting will guarantee a crisis</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 5/1 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Christopher Layne is Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas A&M’s George H.W. Bush School of Government & Public Service. He is author of The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present and, with Bradley A. Thayer, American Empire: A Debate. The American Conservative -- Graceful Decline May 1, 2010 http://www.amconmag.com/article/2010/may/01/00030/</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The United States emerged from … </span>__in order <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">to give</span> an__
[CONTINUED NO TEXT REMOVED]
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">adequate transition period for its … </span>way we see the world.__


**3. Any attempts to contain China or remain the sole hegemon are doomed to fail because countries in the region will align with China**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shambaugh 06 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">DAVID SHAMBAUGH, a Current History contributing editor, is a professor of political science and international affairs and director of the China policy program at George Washington University. He is the editor of Power Shift: China and Asia's New Dynamics (University of California Press, 2005).Asia in Transition: The Evolving Regional Order, 04-01-2006</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://elibrary.bigchalk.com/elibweb/elib/do/document?set=search&dictionaryClick=&secondaryNav=&groupid=1&requestid=lib_standard&resultid=7&edition=&ts=521CF9B0C9A4531156C49B244D326E1A_1281497393162&start=1&publicationId=&urn=urn%3Abigchalk%3AUS%3BBCLib%3Bdocument%3B132816108</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The US-South Korea alliance</span> has …__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Dialogue is no guarantor of </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[CONTINUED NO TEXT REMOVED]</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">agreement, but it is an … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">between Washington and other nations.</span>__


<span class="underline0">4.) The U.S.-China relationship solves every scenario for extinction—economic decline, global insecurity, warming, prolif, and terrorism are all inevitable without cooperation - alliance has spillover effects and solves for Pakistan, Iran, and Afghanistan. </span>
**Cohen 9**<span class="underline0"> <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">(William S. Cohen is chairman … </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">strategic interests, both countries want </span></span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">[CONTINUED NO TEXT REMOVED]</span></span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">to minimize instability and enhance <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">… , though not inevitable, is indispensable.</span></span></span>


<span class="Underline">**Adv 2 – Korean War**</span>

<span class="Underline"> </span>

<span class="Underline">**1. November’s attack was caused … regime change in North Korea**</span>
<span class="Underline">**China key to stop tensions**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Stewart and Mohammed 11/24**</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Phil Stewart and Arshad Mohammed, North Korea's attack tied to succession, U.S. says, 24 Nov 2010, Source: Reuters, http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/N24241316.htm</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON, Nov 24 (Reuters) - </span>The United … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">) Withdrawal key to ease that</span></span>


**2. Withdrawal only way to ensure China’s cooperation**
**Garfinkle, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” [[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NO NORMAL DIPLOMACY The U.S. finds … </span>__it. We can help them do so.__



**3. Chinese involvement is key to stabilize Korea – prevents violent collapse, military response by South Korea, North Korea nuclearization and allied proliferation**
**Bandow, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, the United States, South … in the North Korean issue. </span>



**4. Failed succession collapses regime and triggers civil war and instability**
**Klingner, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation. (Bruce, 4/7/10, Heritage Foundation, “Leadership Change in North Korea—What it means for the U.S.” [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/04/leadership-change-in-north-korea-what-it-means-for-the-us]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Failed Succession.</span> __Even if the … ) or an "implosion" (regime collapse).__

**5. Escalates to global nuclear war**
**Cirincione, 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blocks would fall quickest __...__ </span>__nuclear weapon since__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__45__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span> 

<span class="Underline">**6. The brink is now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**McNeill and Kirk 11/24**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David McNeill and Donald Kirk, South Korea warns of 'enormous retaliation', Two Koreas on brink of war as pressure mounts for response, //<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">Wednesday, 24 November 2010 </span>//<span class="Underline">http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/south-korea-warns-of-enormous-retaliation-2142127.html</span></span>
__The divided Korean peninsula appeared__ ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">stepped up its force-wide alert. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Adv 3 – 6 Party Talks**</span>

<span class="Underline"> </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. 6 party talks key to denuclearizing North Korea</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klug 11/22</span>**</span>
By FOSTER KLUG, Associated Press <span class="fn"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Foster Klug, Associated Press</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Mon Nov 22, North Korea nuke revelations stir US policy worry</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/koreas_nuclear</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">SEOUL, South Korea – The United … honest assessment of the options." </span>



2. US troops in South Korea raise Chinese threat perceptions---means they’ll undermine Six Party Talks to keep North Korean nuclear weapons as a buffer. Withdrawal solves.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lin 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Christina Lin, PHD and is a visiting fellow at AICGS and researcher for Jane's Information Group, March 2010, “CHINA, IRAN, AND NORTH KOREA: A TRIANGULAR STRATEGIC ALLIANCE,” online: http://www.gloria-center.org/meria/2010/03/lin.html</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">A 2006 article by Shen Dingli, … the “Israel of East Asia.”[75] </span>


3. China will only strongly support Six Party Talks if the U.S. can convince them it’s in their interests 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 3</span>**, April 29, 2003, Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “Enlisting China,”
http://article.nationalreview.com/268688/enlisting-china/doug-bandow
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Pyongyang's willingness to sit </span>… <span style="font-weight: normal;">doubled grain and vegetable sales. </span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">4. Sustaining the six party talks is key to regime change and denuclearization </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lankov 09</span>** (11/16, Associate Professor of History at Kookmin
University, “Beating Kim at His Own,” www.nytimes.com/2009/11/17/opinion/17iht-edlankov.html?_r=1 Game)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0">If de-nuclearization is impossible, does … </span>other **things,** <span class="underline0">bring about de-nuclearization). </span></span>



**5. North Korean aggression and escalation will cause nuclear conflict – even the smallest miscalculation leads to rapid escalation and 4 scenarios for extinction.**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND  **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,”** **[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]****)**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly … consideration from the international community. </span>**




Solvency



<span style="text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1. Withdrawal will allow adoption of an off-shore balancing strategy and reduce perception of U.S. over handedness </span>
Espiritu, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)</span>**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Another alternative</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the grand … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">aspect of the international community.</span>__**




<span style="text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">2. Kim wants a Peace Treaty – Korean treaty will happen once US pulls out of South Korea.</span></span>
**<span class="Author-Date">Bandow 09</span>, 8/31/09, Doug Bandow, “Individual Liberty, Free markets, and Peace” http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10492**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline">__Withdraw U.S. forces from South Korea__</span>. __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">… </span>____resolution of the Korean confrontation.__</span>**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> </span>

**<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none;">3. Lack of Chinese leadership and cooperation encourages North Korean aggression and guarantees that miscalculation escalates—plan is a pre-requisite to denuclearization and a stable peace</span></span>**
Economist 10**<span class="underline0"> <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">(27 May 2010, The nightmare scenario, </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.economist.com/node/16216482?story_id=16216482]]</span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, RBatra)</span></span>**
**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">If China cannot … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">have died in vain.</span></span>**



4. Withdrawing __ground troops__ solves – stops North Korea from probing U.S. weakness to draw our forces into a wider conflict. Air and naval installations will maintain power projection capabilities afterward. 
Stanton, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – U.S. Army Judge Advocate in Korea from 98-02 and practicing attorney in Washington, D.C. (4/12/10, Joshua, The New Ledger, “It's Time for the U.S. Army to Leave Korea,” [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/04/11/opinion/main6386737.shtml]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Proceeding against the advice … aligns with the correct result.</span>



<span class="CardsFont12pt">5. U.S. troops aren’t useful for deterrence- continued presence can only escalate the conflict</span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Erickson </span>Executive Director of CenterMovement.org<span class="AuthorDateChar"> ‘10</span>
(Stephen, the, ‘End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,’ May 6, 2010, http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/)
<span class="CardsFont12pt">Most crucially, from an American point of view … </span><span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="border: medium none;">needs to be brought home before it’s too late. </span></span>