=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
==Greenhill 1AC== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all of its military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.** 


**Contention 1 is Alliance: Alliance collapse inevitable— first— grass roots movements and politics** 
Michael __**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Auslin</span></span>**__, Director of Japan Studies at American Enterprise Institute, <span class="Author-Date">__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">6/16/</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, " The Real Futenma Fallout ", http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704324304575307471399789704.html?mod=WSJ_Opinion_LEFTTopBucket 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">A great sigh of relief erupted in ….__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Japan's national security establishment. </span></span>__ </span>



**Futenma only highlighted the issue of broader opposition to US bases in Japan** 
Terashima **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Jitsuro,</span></span>** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", <span class="Author-Date">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">8/20/</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve {jchen} 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">But history is harsh. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hatoyama …__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">in the present state of the bases.</span>__ </span></span></span>


**Current US policy has made the nuclear umbrella and military deployment obsolete—bases in Japan no longer hold any deterrence value** 
Terashima <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Jitsuro</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span></span> chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span> Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve {jchen} 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">At the time of the regime change, …of Japanese strategic thinking will loom important. </span>


**Removal of bases shifts focus toward economic and security cooperation—this is the ONLY scenario for a sustainable alliance that preserves East Asian stability** 
Terashima __**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Jitsuro,</span></span>**__ chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/__**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>**__ Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve {jchen} 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">What Should Be Done-Demand the …</span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">alliance evolve into something truly deserving of trust</span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">.</span> </span></span>



Scenario 1 Geography: 
Current military presence alienates China—Basing makes China-Taiwan inevitable and leads to nuclear war 
Michael <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Klare</span></span>, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span>, “**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html</span>**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">In discussing long-term threats to US security…<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;"> can be no victors from such a conflagration</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span> </span>
The US-Japan alliance is critical to stop Chinese—Taiwan conflict
Yukio <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Okamoto</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span></span> special advisor to the Japanese Prime Minister’s Task Force on Foreign Relations, WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Sprin<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">g <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">2002</span></span></span>, p. 59 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regardless of whether China’s development …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the two sides need to come to a negotiated solution. </span></span></span> </span>


Second, Sino-Russian cooperation now. Strong Alliance key to loosen ties.
Peter <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Brooks</span></span>, Senior Fellow at the heritage foundation, 8/15/20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">05</span></span> “An Alarming Alliance: Sino Russian ties tightening” The Heritage Foundation, http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed081505a.cfm 

The first- ever joint <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chinese-Russian military …addressing the burgeoning Sino-Russian entente</span></span>. 



Russia-China alliance causes Chinese military modernization and world war. 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arthur <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Waldron</span></span>, professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War College and an associate of the Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard, 19<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">97</span></span>, “HOW NOT TO DEAL WITH CHINA,” March 1997 </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MAKING THESE flash-points all the more …Russia, or India, or Japan--or the United States. </span></span>


Finally, Japanese leaders are shifting towards an increasingly anti US stance—drawdown of forces is key to appease them and maintain the security alliance 
Kenneth B. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Pyle,</span></span> Professor of History and Asian Studies at the University of Washington, “Troubled Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">10,</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;"> July</span></span> 2010, [[http://asiapolicy.nbr.org/|http://asiapolicy.nbr.org]] {jchen} 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Japan and the United States are observing …</span></span>domination has shaped Japanese behavior. </span>

====**Second is Cooperation:**==== 
**First, strengthening U.S.-Japan alliance is key to energy innovation and environmental regulations** 
Kent E. __**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Calder</span></span>**__, Director of Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, __**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">02/01</span></span>**__/2010 “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.‐JAPAN COOPERATION”, [[http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf]]

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Active </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">U.S.</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: 'MS Mincho'; font-size: 12pt;">‐</span><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Japan cooperation </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">embedded political interests in both countries.</span></span> </span>


U.S.-Japan cooperation sets a precedent for clean energy and innovation in Asia that solves climate change 
Nirav <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Patel</span></span>, a research associate, specializing in Asian affairs, at the [[http://www.cnas.org/|Center for a New American Security]]//<span style="color: #504e4e;">.</span>// December 7 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">07</span></span> World Politics Review, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,” <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation]]</span>,”) SM 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">Historically, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S.-Japan relations have …international peace, stability and security.</span></span> </span>


**Technological innovation key to carbon capture methods—removes over half of greenhouse gases** 
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">University of Calgary </span></span>**9/30/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">“Global Warming Fix? Carbon Dioxide Captured Directly From Air With Simple Machine,” //<span style="font-style: normal;">ScienceDaily,</span>// http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2008/09/080929123941.htm</span> </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">University of Calgary <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">climate change scientist</span></span> …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">than half of the greenhouse gases emitted on Earth. </span></span></span>

**We’re on the brink of runaway warming—that causes extinction** 
<span class="CiteChar">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oliver </span>**</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Tickell</span></span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span></span>environmental researcher, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span></span>8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange) 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">We need to get prepared …</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> towards a</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> similar </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">hothouse Earth</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span> </span>


AND Even if we don’t win rapid <span style="color: #1a1a1a;">warming</span>, slight temperature increases cause methane burps which cause extinction 
John <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Atcheson</span></span>, geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span>, “Ticking Time Bomb,” Baltimore Sun, December 15, [[http://www.commondreams.org/views04/1215-24.htm]]

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">There are enormous quantities </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">… on Earth. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">We have to act now.</span></span></span> </span>


There’s no question about warming—it’s real and anthropogenic 
Stefan <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rahmstorf, </span></span>Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span> (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49) 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">It is time to turn to statement B: human …<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> reality</span></span> with which we need to deal. </span>




Even 1% risk justifies action ---- the consequences are too big 
Robert <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Strom</span></span>, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">2007</span></span> “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Keep in mind that the current consequences … define what awaits us. The time for action is now. </span>



Contention 2 Is Japanese Politics: 

Kan’s agenda is on the brink –Winning the Okinawa issue restores Kan’s credibility—he’ll be spun as responsive to citizen demands and strong on foreign relations 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Kyodo News 7/11</span></span><span class="NothingChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">/</span>2010</span>,“Stability, unity key to Kan’s success: expert,” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100611f2.html 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">WASHINGTON — <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ensuring <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">stability</span> … policy as we look forward," she said. </span></span></span>

Tax reform is unpopular but increased credibility on other issues lets Kan force it through 
Justin <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">McCurr</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">y</span></span>, GlobalPost correspondent for Japan, 7/17/20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, GlobalPost, http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/japan/100715/global-economy-japan?page=0,1 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">"It is possible to say that <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span> Democratic Party by its acronym. </span>

Tax reform’s key to solve deflation and spur growth 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">WSJ 7/18,</span></span> 2010,Tomoyuki Tachikawa, Dow Jones Newswires, “Correct: Japan Govt Aims For Growth Through Investments, Tax Cuts” http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20100618-703746.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prime Minister Naoto <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Kan</span>'s Cabinet <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">… money and the economy cannot revive."</span> </span></span></span>



3 years until the debt crisis hits—failure to resolve stagnation before that ensures economic collapse 
Huffington Post, Devin <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Stewart</span></span>, Program Director and Senior Fellow, Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs (blog), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">7/15</span></span>/10, " Will a Rudderless Japan Drift into Crisis? ," http://www.huffingtonpost.com/devin-stewart/will-a-rudderless-japan-d_b_648321.html // vkoneru 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">"<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Three</span> to four <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">years</span> from …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">revenue and employment in the future."</span></span></span>

Japanese economic crisis triggers global collapse 
Alan P. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Weiss</span></span>, president of Regent Wealth Management Group 12/7/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, New Haven Register “Japan’s deflation could have global ripple effect” http://www.nhregister.com/articles/2009/12/27/business/f2-weiss27.txt 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">JAPAN has the second-largest economy </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for a stronger and healthier economy tomorrow.</span>
Nuclear war 
Walter Russell <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Mead</span></span>, Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy Studies @ Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, 2-4-<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, [[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=1]]

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">The greatest danger</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">,<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> we may</span> still <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">have to fight</span></span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">.</span>




===**New Japanese Politics advantage**=== 

Ozawa’s winning now but remaining Diet members are key to election – vote count proves 
The <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Daily Yomiuri, 9/10</span></span>/10, “ Ozawa hot on Kan's tail in DPJ race ”, [[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/national/T100909004727.htm]] {jchen} 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">D</span></span>emocratic <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">P</span></span>arty of <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">J</span></span>apan <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">heavyweight</span></span> Ichiro …to select more than one reason. </span>


Okinawa withdrawal’s massively unpopular within the Diet 
Gregory <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Smits</span></span>, associate professor of East Asian history at Pennsylvania State University, last modified 4/10/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>, East Asian History website, “Okinawa in Postwar Japanese Politics and the Economy”, [[http://www.east-asian-history.net/Ryukyu/History/Okinawa/Postwar/index.htm]] {jchen} 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because several thousand more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">base </span>…</span></span>the eyes of the rest of Japan. </span>

Ozawa supports controversial withdrawal but has backed off the issue to appease the Diet—linking it back to him would lose him the election 
Tobias <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Harris</span></span>, Japanese politics specialist who worked for a DPJ member of the upper house of the Diet Observing Japan, 2/26/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, 

“What is Ozawa's angle?”, http://www.observingjapan.com/2009/02/what-is-ozawas-angle.html {jchen} 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ozawa</span></span> Ichiro, a week after his meeting with … be necessary were Ozawa's vision to come to fruition? 

Ozawa victory maintains status quo economic policies that make collapse inevitable 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Bloomberg</span></span>, William Pesek, Bloomberg News Columnist, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">9/5</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">/10</span></span>, “Shadow Shoguns Will Trash $5 Trillion Economy”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-05/shadow-shoguns-will-trash-5-trillion-economy-commentary-by-william-pesek.html {jchen} 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">There he was, scandal-tainted powerbroker…<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the sun is about to come out</span></span>. </span>

Japanese economic crisis triggers global collapse 
Alan P. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Weiss</span></span>, president of Regent Wealth Management Group 12/7/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, New Haven Register “Japan’s deflation could have global ripple effect” http://www.nhregister.com/articles/2009/12/27/business/f2-weiss27.txt 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">JAPAN has the second-largest economy </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span> a stronger and healthier economy tomorrow. </span>


Nuclear war 
Walter Russell <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Mead</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy Studies @ Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, 2-4-<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span>, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=1 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">The greatest danger</span></span> both <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">to</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> U.S.-China … but, if we can't get </span></span></span>





=Negative= 
See Westwood LK
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]