For cites, email:
Aff: [[mailto:kla8938@gmail.com|kla8938@gmail.com]]
Neg: [[mailto:saxman11952@gmail.com|saxman11952@gmail.com]]

Politics Disads: 
START- New Trier
START/Tax Cuts- Iowa Caucuses
START- Glenbrooks
Senate Rules- Omaha Westside
No politics disads were read at Golden Desert. They all sucked. 

[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC - New Trier== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__PLAN__: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.** </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__ADVANTAGE ONE IS HEGEMONY__:**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**We will not be leaving in 2011 but the deadline itself kills our credibility**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Rogin 10** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Josh, staff writer for Foreign Policy, covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly, also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/29, </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/]] petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When General David Petraeus testifies … exactly what they've been doing." </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Current efforts not working, we’re losing the war now**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AFP 10** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(September 9, “US Losing War in Afghanistan: Taliban Leader”, </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[["http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20100909/wl_afp/afghanistanr|http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20100909/wl_afp/afghanistanreligionislameidtaliban]]) KA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Put all your strength and planning behind the task of driving away the invaders and regaining independence of the country," he told </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Afghan mujahedeen (fighters). He claimed … has been underground since then.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Cross border sanctuaries, government corruption, tensions within the Afghan army and the utter failure of population protection makes failure inevitable**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dorronsoro 10** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Gilles, visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes “The Case for Negotiations,” In These Times, 5/24, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan… need for a negotiated settlement. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Iraq created backlash against COIN – overstretch in Afghanistan prolongs the “long war” and constrains our foreign policy**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kitfield 2009** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(James, National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, [[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As the administration reconsiders its … difficult nation building by civilians.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Afghanistan is a quagmire sapping our morale and readiness**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kuhner 9** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">America is losing the war … evil, welcoming arms of extremists.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**This will obliterate American primacy** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pyne 9** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(David, Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Since we invaded Iraq six … US-ally Georgia this past year.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**U.S. hegemony prevents nuclear wars in every corner of earth- no alternative**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kagan 7**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“End of Dreams, Return of History,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">By the same token, foreign … will provide an easier path.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Shift to counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Friedman 10** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(George, American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There is an anomaly in … and re-establish its ground reserves. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**We solve – Strategic withdrawal replenishes vital strategic reserves**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stewart 9** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(9/16/09, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The best Afghan policy would … long-term, less will be more.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**The plan restores credibility – Ending COIN will salvage Afghanistan policy and allows for sustainable presence**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stewart 10** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Rory, Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But this moderate tone gains … much greater focus on Kashmir.1</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Withdrawal makes our grand strategy sustainable – The alternative is retrenchment**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kupchan and Trubowitz 10** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Charles A., Prof. Int’l Affairs @ Georgetown, and Peter L., Assoc. Prof. of Gov’t at UT Austin, “The Illusion of Liberal Internationalism’s Revival” in International Security, Volume 35, Number 1, Summer, pp. 95-109, Project Muse, DA: 9/24/2010JLENART) NOTE- Ellipses in Original </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Congress may be leading the …home as it is globally. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**__ADVANTAGE 2 IS STABILITY__:** </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A large footprint structurally fails – Afghanistan is too geographically diverse and an enemy-focused approach is key**</span>
**Cohen 10**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Michael A. - Writer on politics and foreign affairs. Former Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Dissent Magazine, University of Pennsylvania Press, “No-Win Policy for Afghanistan” Volume 57, Issue 2, pg 5)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> In the end, the fundamental … an example to other nations </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – props up an ineffective central government at the cost of stability**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **Preble 2010** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Christopher A., director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, "Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?" May 21, Cato Institute, originally published on The Economist Online, [[http://%22|http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The appropriate question is not … challenges elsewhere in the world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Impact is anarchy – try or die**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **Castonguay 2010** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(David, studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, “In Praise of Warlords”, [[http://%22|http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords]], DA: 9/15/2010JLENART)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Engaging local groups made up … a greater chance of success. </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **Akhtar, 10** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If it is a war … moment, thus destabilizing the state.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Pitt, 9**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But a suicide bomber in … situation. So should we all.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**A shift to a light force posture solves – leads to tribal engagement and regionalism.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Castonguay 10** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(David Castonguay studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, 2010, “In Praise of Warlords”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, there is the experience …U.S. military itself can tolerate.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Plan’s decentralization remains critical to stability**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Mukhopadhyay 9** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Dipali, doctoral candidate at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and a Jennings Randolph Dissertation Scholar at the U.S. Institute of Peace. She has received doctoral fellowships from Harvard Law School and the Jacob K. Javits Fellowship Program at the U.S. Department of Education. Undergraduate studies at Yale in the Political Science Department, and former junior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment’s Nonproliferation Program – August, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Middle East Program. Number 101 http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/warlords_as_bureaucrats.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterterrorism and state building coexist … of state (re)formation in Afghanistan.</span>

==1AC - Iowa Caucuses== 


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">__PLAN__: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan. </span>**

__**CONTENTION ONE IS INHERENCY:**__

**WE WILL LOSE THE WAR NOW**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**A large footprint structurally fails – Afghanistan is too geographically diverse and an enemy-focused approach is key**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Cohen 10**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Michael A. - Writer on politics and foreign affairs. Former Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Dissent Magazine, University of Pennsylvania Press, “No-Win Policy for Afghanistan” Volume 57, Issue 2, pg 5)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In the end, the fundamental … an example to other nations</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Current efforts not working, we’re losing the war now**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**AFP 10**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(September 9, “US Losing War in Afghanistan: Taliban Leader”, [["http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20100909/wl_afp/afghanistanr|http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20100909/wl_afp/afghanistanreligionislameidtaliban]]) KA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"Put all your strength and planning behind the task of driving away the invaders and regaining independence of the country," he told</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Afghan mujahedeen (fighters). He claimed … has been underground since then.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__CONTENTION TWO IS HEGEMONY:__** </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Iraq created backlash against COIN – overstretch in Afghanistan prolongs the “long war” and constrains our foreign policy**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kitfield 2009**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(James, National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">As the administration reconsiders its … difficult nation building by civilians.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COIN IS OVERSTRETCHING KILLING BOTH LEADERSHIP AND POLITICAL WILL FOR IT</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">KRETKOWSKI 10</span>**

<span style="color: black;">(Paul, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter break I had … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">).</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Afghanistan is a quagmire sapping our morale and readiness**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kuhner 9**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">America is losing the war … evil, welcoming arms of extremists.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**This will obliterate American primacy**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Pyne 9**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(David, Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Since we invaded Iraq six … US-ally Georgia this past year.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**U.S. hegemony prevents nuclear wars in every corner of earth- no alternative**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kagan 7**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">“End of Dreams, Return of History,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">By the same token, foreign … will provide an easier path.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Shift to counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Friedman 10**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(George, American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">There is an anomaly in … and re-establish its ground reserves.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**We solve – Strategic withdrawal replenishes vital strategic reserves**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Stewart 9**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(9/16/09, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The best Afghan policy would … long-term, less will be more.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The plan restores credibility – Ending COIN will salvage Afghanistan policy and allows for sustainable presence**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Stewart 10**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Rory, Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But this moderate tone gains … much greater focus on Kashmir.1</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__CONTENTION THREE IS STABILITY:__** </span>


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – props up an ineffective central government at the cost of stability </span>**
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Preble 2010** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Christopher A., director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, "Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?" May 21, Cato Institute, originally published on The Economist Online, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://%22/|http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The appropriate question is not … challenges elsewhere in the world.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Impact is anarchy – try or die**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Castonguay 2010**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(David, studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, “In Praise of Warlords”, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://%22/|http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords]]</span>, DA: 9/15/2010JLENART)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Engaging local groups made up … a greater chance of success.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Akhtar, 10**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If it is a war … moment, thus destabilizing the state.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Pitt, 9**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But a suicide bomber in … situation. So should we all.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**A shift to a light force posture solves – leads to tribal engagement and regionalism.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Castonguay 10**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(David Castonguay studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, 2010, “In Praise of Warlords”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Finally, there is the experience …U.S. military itself can tolerate.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Plan’s decentralization remains critical to stability**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Mukhopadhyay 9**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">(Dipali, doctoral candidate at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and a Jennings Randolph Dissertation Scholar at the U.S. Institute of Peace. She has received doctoral fellowships from Harvard Law School and the Jacob K. Javits Fellowship Program at the U.S. Department of Education. Undergraduate studies at Yale in the Political Science Department, and former junior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment’s Nonproliferation Program – August, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Middle East Program. Number 101 http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/warlords_as_bureaucrats.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterterrorism and state building coexist … of state (re)formation in Afghanistan.</span>

**A focused counterterror mission creates a smooth transition.**
**Long 10**
(Austin Long - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, Spring, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” Foreign Policy Research Institute)

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">This insoluble problem is why … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">than any other counterterrorism deployment.</span></span>


**Small footprint strategy best—it preserves stability in Afghanistan and prevents total withdrawal, which makes all their turns inevitable**
**Blackwill 10**
(Robert D. Blackwill served as U.S. ambassador to India, deputy national security advisor for strategic planning and presidential envoy to Iraq in the George W. Bush administration International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs "A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan" July 7, <span style="color: black;">http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html?breadcrumb=%25</span>, DA: 10/23/2010//JLENART)//

//The Obama administration's counterinsurgency strategy … and the future of Iraq.//


==//1AC - Glenbrooks//== 


__**Plan**__**: The United States federal government should immediately reduce its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq.**

__**Advantage One: The Iran Conundrum**__

**The US only worries about Iran’s possession of nukes – this stance is unsustainable and only leads to conflict and economic collapse – we must shift negotiations towards the issue of Iraq**
**Friedman – 10** (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC
The United States apparently has … the consequences would be unacceptable.

**US has only two options for Iran – both actions make conflict with Iran inevitable.**
**Friedman – 09** (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC
The Iranians signaled last week … they can wait no longer.

**And, Iran strikes fail but retaliation is inevitable**
**Friedman – 09** (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC
U.S. and Iranian Options
Iran’s problem becomes clear when … interdiction and disruptions in Iraq. 

**Only the US has the power to counter-balance to Iran**
**Friedman – 10** (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC 
As long as the problem … , it is doing just this.

**Iran Nuclear Talks Will Happen December 5th, US dealings in Iraq is the lynchpin to successful talks**
**AFP 11/14** (Assad Abboud, 11/14/10, " Foreign influence behind Iraq power-sharing pact: analysts ", http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5i9iv67og5U5GGc5vyOlyt15s2-gg?docId=CNG.abcbb510a5c046dbf43a74a8c92b43c3.161)
BAGHDAD — Iraq's power-sharing deal, … seats in the March 7 polls.

**US is planning a hardline approach to negotiations with Iran. They will fail currently.**
**NY Times – 10** (DAVID E. SANGER, Writer, “Obama Set to Offer Stricter Nuclear Deal to Iran”, October 27, 2010, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/28/world/middleeast/28iran.html]]) CJC
WASHINGTON — The Obama administration and … Iran’s program as his “No. 1 job.”

**Iran’s nuclear ambitions are not peaceful. Allowing them to continue will result in global proliferation**
**Landau – Dec. ‘10** (Emily B. Landau is the director of the Arms Control and Regional Security program at Tel Aviv University’s Institute for National Security Studies (INSS). She teaches nuclear arms control at Tel Aviv University and the University of Haifa, Israel, “The Iranian quagmire: How to move forward. Position: Tough bargaining tactics”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, November/December 2010, 66 (6), [[http://bos.sagepub.com/content/66/6/88.full]]) CJC 
When considering how to improve … “merely” expressed his wish list.4

**Accidents and Nuclear War**
**Sturm 2009** [ Frankie, July, Nuclear Weapons: A New Paradigm for the 21st Century, Truman National Security Project]
Accidents happen, but the price … extra gravity to the threat.

**Military strikes against Iran are not an option. Only dealing with the 3 pillar issues of Iranian security can result in successful easing of tensions and desires for a nuclear Iran. The plan ensures these are met by eliminating the perceived security threats that the US poses and elevating and recognizing Iran as a critical leader by ceding to their role in Iraq.**
**Kibaroglu – Dec. ‘10** (Mustafa Kibaroglu teaches courses on arms control and disarmament in the Department of International Relations at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey. He is also the Academic Advisor of NATO Centre of Excellence Defence against Terrorism in Ankara, Turkey, “The Iranian quagmire: How to move forward Position: Resuscitate the nuclear swap deal”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, November/December 2010, 66 (6), [[http://bos.sagepub.com/content/66/6/88.full]]) CJC
Regarding the military option, the … thus far cannot be destroyed.

**__Advantage 2 is Water:__**


**The Iraqi Government is Not Stable—Maliki Has One Month to Form and Government and a Full Cabinet But It Won’t Last That Long**
**Arraf 10** (Jane Arraf, Novermber 12, 2010, Christian Science Monitor, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/11/12/103668/iraq-has-new-government-but-its.html)
ONE MONTH TO FORM A CABINET … no commitment to it," he said.

**A Stable Government In Iraq Is Key to Relations and Security Guarantees with Syria**
**BBC 10** (British Broadcasting Company, Monitoring Middle East- Political, “ Syrian Leader riterates call for formation of Iraqi national unity government” , October 14, 2010, Lexis Nexus)
The latest developments in the … the Syrian and Iraqi people. 


**Government instability makes tackling the water issue impossible**
**al-Ansary and Chaudry 10** (Khalid and Serena, November 14, “Climate change worsens plight of Iraqi farmers”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6AD1DW20101114?pageNumber=2)
BAGHDAD (Reuters) -Frequent dust storms … daily food," the farmer said.


**Drought now is hurting Iraqi water supply – tensions with Syria, Turkey and Iran and disagreements over water supply leads to conflict**
**al-Hasani and al Shara 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Saleem and Basim, June 5, “Baghdad Urged to Tackle Water Shortage Crisis”, [[http://www.groundreport.com/Business/Baghdad-Urged-to-Tackle-Water-Crisis/2924468]]) </span>
Iraqis are calling on their … in terms of water rights.”


**Water wars unleash 60,000 nukes**
**Weiner ’90** – Pulitzer Prize winning author (Jonathan, “The Next One Hundred Years”, p. 270)
If we do not destroy … world has stockpiled since Trinity.

<span class="Underline">**US withdraw will help create stability in government formation of Iraq.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Jansen 11/3** (Liza Jansen, "Interview: Though still largely muddled, Iraq stands ready to embrace post-US era", 11/3/10, [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2010-11/04/c_13589881.htm]]) CJC </span>
UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 3 (Xinhua) -- Fractious … to form a new government though.

==1AC - Westside== 

**Plan Text: The United States federal government should immediately reduce its military and police presence in the Republic of Iraq.**

**Contention One is Inherency:**

**The withdrawal deadline will be extended – we’ve invested too much in the Iraq to go cold turkey**
**Karon 1/6** (Tony Karon – reporter for Time magazine, 6 January 2011, “Iraq: With al-Sadr Back In, Is U.S. on Way Out?,” Time, [[http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,2041026,00.html]]) 
The end of 2011 is, of course, … two veterans returning to Iraq.)


**Contention Two is the Iran Conundrum:**


**The US only worries about Iran’s possession of nukes – this stance is unsustainable and only leads to conflict and economic collapse – we must shift negotiations towards the issue of Iraq**
**Friedman – 10** (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC 
The United States apparently has … the consequences would be unacceptable. 

**US has only two options for Iran – both actions make conflict with Iran inevitable.**
**Friedman – 09** (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC 
The Iranians signaled last week … they can wait no longer. 

**And, US-Iran war is on the brink now. Previous war rhetoric should be ignored, we must evaluate this instance in a vacuum.**
**Friedman 10** – (10 American political scientist and … ) CJC\) 

Public discussion of potential attacks … confirm nor deny that possibility. 

**And, Iran strikes fail but retaliation is inevitable – this closes the Strait of Hormuz and Persian Gulf, skyrocketing oil prices and killing the world economy**
**Friedman – 09** (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “The Iranian Incursion in Context”; December 21, 2009; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20091221_iranian_incursion_context?fn=6415576593) CJC 

U.S. and Iranian Options Iran’s problem becomes clear when … interdiction and disruptions in Iraq.


**And, Rising oil prices destroy the economy**
**Whipple 7/14/2010** (Tom, one of the most highly respected analysts of peak oil issues in the United States. Retired 30-year CIA analyst who has been following the peak oil story since 1999, Editor of the daily Peak Oil News and the weekly Peak Oil Review, The Peak Oil Crisis: A Mid-Year Review, FNCP.com, http://www.fcnp.com/commentary/national/6896-the-peak-oil-crisis-a-mid-year-review.html) 
Interestingly, six in ten surveyed … the proximity of the crisis. 

**Extinction**
**Broward 9** ((Member of Triond) http://newsflavor.com/opinions/will-an-economic-collapse-kill-you/ AD: 7-7-09 )ET 
Now its time to look … us in the 21st century. 

**Only the US has the power to counter-balance to Iran – plan forces US to redefine issue away from nuclear program**
**Friedman – 10** (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC 
As long as the problem … it is doing just this. 

**Withdrawal from Iraq solves and avoids conflict. The US must engage Iran and push for a relationship, accepting their nuclear weapons and giving them influence in Iraq. This can only be done with a withdraw of US troops from Iraq.**
**Friedman – 10** (George, American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor; “Thinking About the Unthinkable: A U.S.-Iranian Deal”; March 1, 2010; http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100301_thinking_about_unthinkable_usiranian_deal?fn=5016929549) CJC 
Consider the American interest. First, … eliminate Iranian influence in Iraq.


**Contention Three is Water:**


**The Iraqi Government is Not Stable—even with new formation it won’t last long**
**Arraf 10** (Jane Arraf, Novermber 12, 2010, Christian Science Monitor, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/11/12/103668/iraq-has-new-government-but-its.html)
ONE MONTH TO FORM A CABINET … no commitment to it," he said.

**A Stable Government In Iraq Is Key to Relations and Security Guarantees with Syria**
**BBC 10** (British Broadcasting Company, Monitoring Middle East- Political, “ Syrian Leader riterates call for formation of Iraqi national unity government” , October 14, 2010, Lexis Nexus)
The latest developments in the … the Syrian and Iraqi people.

**Government instability makes tackling the water issue impossible**
**al-Ansary and Chaudry 10** (Khalid and Serena, November 14, “Climate change worsens plight of Iraqi farmers”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6AD1DW20101114?pageNumber=2)
BAGHDAD (Reuters) -Frequent dust storms … daily food," the farmer said.

**Drought now is hurting Iraqi water supply – tensions with Syria, Turkey and Iran and disagreements over water supply leads to conflict**
**al-Hasani and al Shara 10** (Saleem and Basim, June 5, “Baghdad Urged to Tackle Water Shortage Crisis”, [[http://www.groundreport.com/Business/Baghdad-Urged-to-Tackle-Water-Crisis/2924468]])
Iraqis are calling on their … in terms of water rights.”


**Conflict between Iraq, Syria, and Turkey over water is coming now.**
**Langer – 09** (Andrew Langer is a 2009 graduate of Johns Hopkins University, where he majored in International Studies and concentrated in International Security, “Hydro Wars The Struggle for Water and Survival in the Euphrates-Tigris River Basin”, 2009, [[http://www.helvidius.org/files/2009/2009_Langer.pdf]]) CJC
In 1995, World Bank Vice President … exhibited by Syria and Iraq.


**And, MIDDLE EAST WAR WILL PRODUCE GLOBAL NUCLEAR CONFLAGRATION.**
**Steinbach, 2002.** [[http://wagingpeace.org/articles%20/0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm|http://wagingpeace.org/articles /0203/0331steinbachisraeli.htm]]
Meanwhile, the existence of an … conflict could trigger a world conflagration."


**Though Iraq’s government seems to be solidifying, Sadr’s return threatens stability – only through withdrawal can al-Maliki ensure Sadr’s support and sustain necessary coalition building**
**Bazzi 1/6** (Mohamad Bazzi – Adjunct Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies for Council on Foreign Relations, 6 January 2011, “What Sadr's Return Means for Iraq,” Council on Foreign Relations, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23737/what_sadrs_return_means_for_iraq.html?cid=rss-fullfeed-what_sadr_s_return_means_for_i-010611&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+cfr_main+(CFR.org+-+Main+Site+Feed)) 
Muqtada al-Sadr, one of the … formidable power broker in Iraq. 

**US withdraw will help create stability in government formation of Iraq.**
**Jansen 11/3** (Liza Jansen, "Interview: Though still largely muddled, Iraq stands ready to embrace post-US era", 11/3/10, [[http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2010-11/04/c_13589881.htm]]) CJC
UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 3 (Xinhua) -- Fractious … to form a new government though. 

==1AC - Golden Desert== 
We did not read the Bazzi card on the water advantage. 

This card was read on the Iran advantage: 


Egypt has set the brink for a return of stagflation due to oil price shocks. Markets are now aware of the risk and would act quickly. There is not a risk for the Egytian crisis to cause oil shocks, because the Suez Canal will not be shut down. The biggest risk is conflict with Iran over its nuclear weapons shutting down oil supplies. 
Gasparino – 1/30 (Charlie Gasparino is a senior correspondent for Fox Business Network. He is a columnist for The Daily Beast and a frequent contributor to the New York Post, Forbes, and other publications. His latest book, Bought and Paid For, is about the Obama administration and Wall Street, “Will Egypt Rock Our Economy?”, January 30, 2011, [[http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2011-01-30/stagflation-will-egypt-cause-an-economic-doomsday/]]) CJC 

Will the chaos in Egypt … shock" needed to ignite stagflation. 


=Negative= 

==Topicality== 
===Topicality- Combat Troops=== 
====1NC==== 



**A. Interpretation - Presence excludes combat activities.**
James **Thomason** – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, **2002** http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf
Our working definition of US … may not be “doing presence.”



====2NC==== 

=====A2: COUNTER-INTERPRETATION===== 


**Presence excludes combat forces.**
Lieutenant Colonel Charles **Greer**, United States Army, February 19, **1991**, “The Future of Forward Presence,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA234227&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
To establish a conceptual framework for … do not have a military component. 

**Presence excludes crisis response and combat forces.**
Bradford **Dismukes**, representative of the Center for Naval Analyses to the London staff of the Commander in Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe , October **2003**, “National Security Strategy and Forward Presence: Implications for Acquisition and Use of Forces,” http://cna.org/sites/default/files/research/2793019200.pdf
Beyond the direct defense of … for distinct kinds of capabilities.


=====A2: LOSE AFF GROUND===== 


**The US has tens of thousands of non-combat troops in Iraq – plenty of aff ground**.
Sam **Smith**, editor of Undernews (online report of the Progressive Review), January 19, **2009**, “The Non-Combat Troop Trick,” Undernews, http://www.prorev.com/2009/01/non-combat-troop-trick.html
Barack Obama has repeatedly talked … communications functions, among other tasks."

**Not all US troops in Afghanistan are combat troops.**
The **Guardian**, October 13, **2009**, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2009/oct/13/obama-afghanistan-troop-deployment
President Barack Obama is quietly … minds of the Afghanistan population.


=====2NC/1NR Link---Korea===== 



Korean and Afghanistan troops are devoted to __possible combat__
O’Hanlon 8 (Michael is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a senior advisor to the Center for a New American Security, Unfinished Business: U.S. Overseas Military Presence in the 21st Century, June, [[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/reports/2008/06_military_ohanlon/06_military_ohanlon.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/reports/2008/06_military_ohanlon/06_military_ohanlon.pdf]], DA: 10/15/2010JLENART) 
Today, the United States … remains on a few key players.

=====2NC/1NR Link---Afghanistan===== 

**COIN troops are combat**
**Schreer and Noetzel 2008** (Benjamin and … Institute Journal, Feb, Vol. 153, No. 1, RUSI)
The third and probably most … targeted offensive actions against insurgents. 

===T- Bases=== 
====1NC==== 

**Interpretation: Presence means basing or other military facilities**
**Korb and Moss 8**
(Lawrence, senior fellow at the Center for American Progress and a senior adviser to the Center for Defense Information. was a senior fellow and director of national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, served as director of the Center for Public Policy Education and senior fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution, dean of the Graduate School of Public and International Affairs at the University of Pittsburgh, served as assistant secretary of defense, was awarded the DoD’s medal for Distinguished Public Service; and Ian, national security researcher at the Center for American Progress, M.A. in comparative politics from Northeastern University veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps, where he served on active duty for five years, a graduate of the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California, (“Moving Beyond the Carter Doctrine: Rethinking the U.S. Military Presence in the Persian Gulf” http://www.tcf.org/publications/ internationalaffairs/korb.pdf)

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in; text-align: justify;">This U.S. military presence requires that … pemanent bases in that country.</span>
====<span style="display: block; margin: 0in; text-align: justify;">2NC</span>==== 
=====A2: C/I===== 

**Presence is defined as port, airfield, or infrastructure**
**Lamberson 3** (Commander Jeffrey Lamberson of the United States Navy, USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT: BEE POWER 21, April 3, 2003, U.S. Army War College,Carlisle Barracks < http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA420208>)

Overseas presence has long been a … accomplish these relationships through a significant

**THAT EXCLUDES THEIR CI- BASES ARE KEY**
**Meernik 94**
(James, University of North Texas, 1994, Presidential Decision Making and the Political Use of Military Force, International Studies Quarterly, Vol 38, p. 127)

The level of American involvement … , enemies, and neutral parties alike.

===T- Substantially=50%=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

**A. Interpretation - DOD defines substantial reduction as 50% - official guidelines prove.**
US Department of Defense (**DOD**), produced by the Office of Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics), Office of Assistant Secretary of Defense (Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence), Office of Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, “Mandatory Procedures for Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPS) and Major Automated Information Systems (MAIS) Acquisition Programs,” April 5, **2002**, http://www.explorationsystems.nasa.gov/documents/TTT_052005/DoD50002R.pdf 
C7.10.3.12. The DoD Components shall … the termination or reduced participation.

**Presence is the totality of military activities in each country.**
Barry M. **Blechman et al**, President of DFI International, Spring, **1997**, Strategic Review, p.14
Given its multifaceted nature, neither … requisite infrastructure and sustainment capabilities."

====2NC Jazz==== 
=====2NC/1NR---Overview===== 

**Our interpretation specifies that substantial must be more than 50% this is key to focus on the core of the topic instead of avoiding clash and reading aff’s on small parts of bases to spike out of disad links. A bill written for a reduction of troop presence has to be at least fifty percent-**
THOMAS.gov, 92 – Summary of H.R.4421, the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992 (http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d102:HR04421:@@@L&summ2=m&) 

Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and … than 50 percent of its personnel. 

**50% is key- Congress proves**
**Pallone**, US Congressional Representative, **2003** (Text of H.R. 3189, introduced by Pallone, to amend Title XVII of the Social Security Act,” 9/25, http://www.theorator.com/bills108/hr3189.html)

`(7) SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTION- The term `… the fourth sentence of section 602(3).' 



=====2NC/1NR---A2: Arbitrary-ness===== 

**Substantially must be given meaning even if arbitrary – contextual uses are key**
**Devinsky, 02** (Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)

In reversing a summary judgment of … , upon reading the patent documents."

===T- Presence is Only Troops=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

A. Interpretation - Presence is limited to troops. 
The Oxford Essential Dictionary of the U.S. Military, 2001, Oxford Reference Online
presence n.a group of people, especially … : maintain a presence in the region. 


====2NC/1NR Jazz==== 
=====2NC/1NR---Overview===== 

Presence is measured based on troops.
Jessie PH Poon, et al, Professor in the Department of Geography, University at Buffalo-SUNY, September 2006, Political Geography, ScienceDirect
The major source of defense … and developments in the region.

There is no official military definition of presence – common usage proves that troops are the best definition of presence—PROVES THEIR REASONABILITY ARGUMENTS ARE IRRELEVANT
Craig W. Mastapeter, Senior Planning Officer, Department of Homeland Security, December 2008, “The Instruments of National Power: Achieving the Strategic Advantage in a Changing World,” 
According to Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary, … on terms favorable to the U.S.

==Disads== 
===Deterrence Disad vs. South Korea affs (New Trier)=== 

**Uniqueness- U.S. presence is sustainable – committed to maintaining credible deterrence**
**Kellerhals, 10** (6/7/10, “Merle David Jr., Staff Writer, “Shangri-La Conference Highlights Asia-Pacific Security Concerns”, http://www.lexisnexis.com) 

Washington -- Pursuing common interests in … and improve relationships, he said. 

**Withdrawal will wreck U.S. influence.**
**Kang & Cha, 03** – *associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, AND **associate professor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service (May/June 2003, David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,” [[http://www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf]])**

**“The United States Should … of its alliance are not.**

Withdrawal will cause Japan to nuclearize and embolden China against Taiwan 
Dao, 03 **(1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html)**

**Deciding if now is the … they see in the region."**

Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT. 
Halloran, 2009 
**[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]**
**That anxiety has reinvigorated a debate … under the US nuclear umbrella.**

Prolif causes nuclear war 
Cirincione 2k **[Joseph - Foreign Policy. www.foreignpolicy.com/Ning/archive/archive/118/asiannuclear.pdf]**
**The blocks would fall quickest … use of a nuclear weapon since 1945.**

US withdrawal wrecks regional instability – causes miscalc, arms races, and war and other factors won’t check escalation. 
Richardson, 2006 **[Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]**
**Rumors of a substantial drawdown or … stability, even in a reunified Korea.**



===**2NC Jazz**=== 

====**2NC/1NR---Uniqueness**==== 



The U.S. is taking a tough line to deter future aggression. 
Reuters, 5-24-2010 **(5/24/10, Jeff Mason, “Obama Tells Military: Prepare for North Korea Aggression,”**
**http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/05/24-6)**
**WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama has … would be appropriate," he said.**



====**2NC/1NR---Hegemony Impact Scenario**==== 


Withdrawal in the midst of Korean threats will send the wrong message to both adversaries and allies – spurring proliferation and global aggression 
Facts on File.com, 07 **(8/7/07, "U.S.-South Korea Relations." Issues & Controversies On File: n. pag. Issues & Controversies. Facts On File News Services, http://www.2facts.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/article/i0800190)**

**Proponents maintain that the combination … of irresponsible North Korean behavior."**

That causes nuclear war. 
Khalilzad, Rand Corporation 95 **(Zalmay Khalilzad, Spring 1995. RAND Corporation. “Losing the Moment?” The Washington Quarterly 18.2, Lexis.)**

**Under the third option, the … a multipolar balance of power system.**


====**2NC/1NR---A2: (Army/Navy/Air Force) Checks**==== 


It would take days to relocate troops- doesn’t check 
Dao, 03 **(1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html]])**

**In addition, the United States … across the Pacific," he said.**

Takes weeks to deploy naval … troops key to check escalation 
Hendricks, 05 **– Lieutenant Commander, Civil Engineer Corps, United States Navy (2/14/05, Todd B., “Adverse Effects of Prospective U.S. Forces Korea Troop Realignments,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463965&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])**

**Another consideration is deployment time … fire and close air support.”23**

===Deterrence Disad v. SK (Golden Desert)=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

The U.S. is strategically rebalancing to Asia – that deterrence capability is sustainable –hegemonic resiliency 
Paal 12/9 (Douglas, vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior analyst at the CIA, “The Rise of China and Alliance in East Asia: Implications for Diplomatic Truce,” [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=42110&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed:+CarnegieEndowmentForInternationalPeaceGeneralPublicationsAndEvents+(DC+-+General+Publications+and+Events)#]], DA: 2/1/2011//JLENART) 

Now, this brings me to … of working its will again. 

Troop presence in ROK is sustaining credible deterrence and preventing crisis escalation 
Carden 9/16 – Sgt. 1st Class (9/16/10, Michael J. Carden, American Forces Press Service, “U.S. presence necessary for Korean security, officials say,” http://www.army.mil/-news/2010/09/16/45317-us-presence-necessary-for-korean-security-officials-say/) 

WASHINGTON, Sept. 16, 2010 - The sinking in … to defeat them if necessary." 

US withdrawal wrecks regional instability – causes miscalc, arms races, and war and other factors won’t check escalation. 
Richardson, 2006 [Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html] 
Rumors of a substantial drawdown or … stability, even in a reunified Korea. 


====1NR Jazz==== 
=====Overview===== 
[Note--these are obviously all turns/solves the case args, not impact extension-esque args.]

() Their author agrees that we turn Korean war 
Huessy 3 – Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states (8/13/2003, Peter, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560]]) However, Carpenter has long advocated a … Patrick Robinson in Kilo Class. 

Solves the aff 
Levkowitz 8 – The International Relations Department, Hebrew University (May 2008, Alon, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “The seventh withdrawal: has the US forces' journey back home from Korea begun?” vol. 8, no. 2., Oxford Journals) Regional tasks – From a regional, strategic … allies in the region (Lee, 1978, pp. 107–108, 1982, p. 102). 

b) Bioweapons 
Snyder 9 – director of the Center for U.S.-Korea Policy and senior associate of Washington programs in the International Relations Program of the Asia Foundation (Scott, CSIS, April, “Pursuing a Comprehensive Vision for the U.S.–South Korea Alliance.” Google Scholar) An emerging challenge illustrated by … in both countries from harm.33 (

Turns regionalism— 
Goh 8 – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database) 
The centrality of these mutual … appear to be much worse. 


=====1NR--AT: North Korean Provocations Disprove Deterrence===== 

North Korea is merely using belligerence as a strategy—they are still rational. 
Cha 12/10 (Victor, former Director for Asian Affairs in the White House's National Security Council, during which time he was the top adviser to President Bush per North Korean issues, “Five myths about North Korea,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/12/10/AR2010121002488.html]], DA: 2/2/2011//JLENART) 

1. The North Koreans are … their perspective, it makes sense.


===**Guam Disad--Iowa Caucuses (Round 4 vs. SFL YJ)**=== 

====**1NC Shell**==== 




A-- Removal of troops in Japan only means more pressure on Guam. They troops will be placed there, because the US has control and Japan gets pitted against Guam pushing the US to keep troops close.
Kirk – 10 **(Gwyn, PhD faculty in Women's and Gender Studies at University of Oregon and a founder member of Women for Genuine Security and LisaLinda Natividad, PhD assistant professor with the Division of Social Work at the University of Guam. She is also president of the Guahan Coalition for Peace and Justice; “Fortress Guam: Resistance to US Military Mega-Buildup”; The Asia-Pacific Journal, 19-1-10, May 10, 2010; [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LE14Dh01.html]]; CJC)**

**The military is adept at … Marines base in nearby Henoko.**

B -- Guam’s status as a colony ensures that the US can use the right of eminent domain to continue to take land from the peoples of Guam and continue the most fundamental aspect of colonialism
Cristobal – 10 **Chamorro former Senator of Guam (Hope A. Cristobal; “Perspectives on the Decolonisation of Guam THE QUESTION OF GUAM: STATEMENT OF GUAHAN COALITION FOR PEACE AND JUSTICE and THE CHAMORRO STUDIES ASSOCIATION”; 30 May 2010; [[http://overseasreview.blogspot.com/2010/05/perspectives-on-decolonisation-of-guam.html]]) CJC**

**Guam’s unincorporated (permanent colony) status … alienation have the same effect.**

C -- Colonialism Leads to Genocide and Extinction
**Dalai** Lama**, Commencement Address by His Holiness the XIV Dalai Lama of Tibet, The John Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, May 24,** 2001
**The concept of the basic … and spiritual traditions diminishes humankind.**

**[Occasionally read]**
D – Vote Negative: Reject the colonialist discourse in the Affirmative project. It is the only way to solve.
**Edward** Said**, professor of literature at Columbia University. Culture of Imperialism, Chapter 4.** 1994 **pg.200**
**This overlapping is not a small … a largely common although disputed terrain**



====**2NC/1NR Jazz**==== 

=====**2NC/1NR Overview**===== 



THIS TURNS AND SOLVES PATRIARCHY—US COLONIALISM ONLY REIFIES PATRIARCHAL CONCEPTS THAT DESTROY THE CULTURE OF OTHER FORMS OF CIVILIZATION—THAT LEADS TO THE SAME IMPACTS ALL OVER AGAIN
Kirk – 08 **(Gwyn, contributor to Foreign Policy in Focus, Women for Genuine Security part of the International Women’s Network Against Militarism; “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”; Foreign Policy In Focus; 3/14/2008; [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]) CJC**

**The power dynamics of militarism … annexation, colonization, exploitation, and war.**

TURNS AND SOLVES THE ENVIRONMENT—ALL OF THEIR EVIDENCE IS INDICATIVE OF HOW THE US DESTROYS THE OKINAWAN ENVIRONMENT—THIS WILL ONLY HAPPEN AGAIN IN GUAM, WHICH CONTINUES THEIR ENVIRONMENT IMPACTS.
Fujita – 10 **(Akiko, Staff; “US military buildup in Guam”; 1/4/2010; [[http://www.pri.org/world/asia/us-military-buildup-guam1816.html]]) CJC**

**The Guam Buildup does not … for its Pacific Island inhabitants.**

Given the choice between Okinawa and Guam, the impacts to colonialism in Guam are worse than the impacts to Okinawans.
Kirk – 10 **(Gwyn, PhD faculty in Women's and Gender Studies at University of Oregon and a founder member of Women for Genuine Security and LisaLinda Natividad, PhD assistant professor with the Division of Social Work at the University of Guam. She is also president of the Guahan Coalition for Peace and Justice; “Fortress Guam: Resistance to US Military Mega-Buildup”; The Asia-Pacific Journal, 19-1-10, May 10, 2010; [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LE14Dh01.html]]; CJC)**


**One significant difference between Okinawa … , the psyches of the people.**

=====**2NC/1NR--Yes Troop Shift to Guam**===== 
They'll be sent to Guam--US perceives as necessary for deterrence capabilities

Kan & Niksch – 10 **(Kan, Specialist in Asian Security Affairs, Larry A., Specialist in Asian Affairs; “Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments: RS22570”; Congressional Research Service: Report; 1/7/2010, p1-7; p. ebsco)cjc**


**Since 2000, the U.S. military has been … from Japan and South Korea.**

GUAM MAKING UPGRADES TO ACCEPT MORE TROOPS—PREFER OUR EVIDENCE—JAPAN TROOPS ARE MOVING TO GUAM
Voice of America News 10 **(Akiko Fujita, 1/19/10, "Guam Braces for Military Buildup", lexis)**

**Residents on the Pacific island … up their land," she said.**

=====**2NC/1NR Link Wall**===== 


US Military build-up on Guam is colonialism. Guam does not have the political or legal ground to be able to stop the US. They are not even consulted on the matter.
Washington Post 10 **(Blaine Harden, 3/22/10, "Guam's support for military has its limits; Funding concerns turn officials and residents against planned base", lexis) CJC**

**Guam was not consulted in … status -- we are occupied territory."**

The US is planning a huge colonialistic military build-up on Guam. That they have ZERO say over and are not even consulted on.
Kirk – 10 **(Gwyn, PhD faculty in Women's and Gender Studies at University of Oregon and a founder member of Women for Genuine Security and LisaLinda Natividad, PhD assistant professor with the Division of Social Work at the University of Guam. She is also president of the Guahan Coalition for Peace and Justice; “Fortress Guam: Resistance to US Military Mega-Buildup”; The Asia-Pacific Journal, 19-1-10, May 10, 2010; [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LE14Dh01.html]]; CJC)**

**So the president, while there, … the name of "national security".**

===**China Containment Disad---Iowa Caucuses (Round 4 vs. SFL YJ)**=== 

====**1NC Shell**==== 



Uniqueness- Military presence in East Asia sends a deterrence signal to China
McDevitt 10 **(Director for CNA-Strategic Studies & Rear admiral, 3/15, “The 2010 QDR and Asia: Messages for the Region”, pg online @ http://csis.org/files/publication/pac1012.pdf)**
**US friends and allies in … in the region are misguided.**

Military presence remains necessary to solve for Sino-Taiwan war- plan guts that
Alagappa 3 **(Muthia, Senior Fellow East-West Center PhD, International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy Tufts University 03 “Asian security order: instrumental and normative features”, Google Books)**
**The United States has also … China without isolating or provoking it.**

That culminates in global nuclear war
Hunkovic 2k9 [[#_Toc268440618]]
[[#_Toc268442735]]
**A war between China, Taiwan … be considered in this study.**

AND, THAT DESTROYS CIVILIZATION
Cheong, Journalist, 1 **(China, Will Taiwan Break Away? The Rise of Taiwanese Nationalism, p. 7)**

**THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-… puts sovereignty above everything else.**

====**2NC/1NR Jazz**==== 

=====**2NC/1NR Overview**===== 



A) Probability –1NC Alagappa proves that all forces are critical to being used as deterrence- small changes get perceived as a lack of commitment within the region, destroying US primacy
Ross, Politics Professor at Boston College, 99 **(Robert, International Security, Volume 23, Number 4)**
**Finally, both full and partial U.S. … , interests, and the security dilemma.**

And, it turns the case – causes regional instability that draws the US back in—causes 1ac impacts
Kelly 9 **(Robert E, Assistant Professor, Department of Political Science & Diplomacy, Pusan National University, Should the US Pull Out of South Korea (2): No, Asian Security Blog, http://asiansecurityblog.wordpress.com/2009/12/18/should-the-us-pull-out-of-south-korea-2-no/)**
**1. If we leave, everyone … the Sino-US regional competition.**

And, the disad guts the case—plan creates a vacuum filled with Asian powers bent on destroying human rights movements—turns case
Zoellick 98 **(Phillip Zoellick, US Naval Academy Professor, FDCH, February 4, 1998 pg nexis)**
**As I noted earlier, the countries … that compensates for their labors.**


=====**2NC/1NR---A2: Deterrence Kritik**===== 


( ) Because some retaliation is moral, deterrence is as well
**Frederick** Kroon **is Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Auckland. Ethics 106 (January** 1996**): 350-377 – J-Stor**
**For the same reason, deterrence … it meant risking irrational behavior.**

( ) Deontology is wrong in the deterrence context – it ignores the complexities of intention.
**David** Conway **is Principal Lecturer in Philosophy at Middlesex Polytechnic – Foreign Policy Perspectives No. 19 –** 1990 **– http://www.libertarian.co.uk/lapubs/forep/forep019.pdf**
**We can afford to be … nuclear powers in good conscience.**

===**Hegemony Disad (SME)**=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

A strong military presence de-escalates conflicts - turns case 
Walt 02 (Dr. Stephen M. Walt, professor of international affairs at Harvard, professor of political science at the University of Chicago, assistant professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton, guest scholar at Brookings, associate at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “American Primacy,” Naval War College Review, Spring 2002) 

A second consequence of U.S. primacy … weaker states dare not try. 

The ability to diffuse regional challengers is key to maintain global leadership 
Lind 7 (Michael, the Whitehead Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation "beyond american hegemony" [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_89/ai_n27268888/?tag=content;col1]], DA: 11/12/2010//JLENART) 

Finally, the global hegemony strategy … States is to be a "hyperpower." 

Nuclear war 
Gray, 5 – Professor and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies at the University of Reading (Colin S, “How has war changed since the end of the cold war?”, Parameters, Pg. 14(13) Vol. 35 No. 1) 

Logically, the reverse side of … war: "fear, honor, and interest." (23) 


====2NC/1NR Jazz==== 
=====2NC/1NR---Overview===== 

American primacy is vital to accessing every major impact—the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse 
Thayer, 6 - professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) 

A grand strategy based on … the economic prosperity it provides. 


===CMR Disad (SME)=== 
====1NC Shell==== 

Civil-relations are getting better but remain on the brink—McChrystal resignation 
AP 10 [Associated Press, “Petraeus Vows Long-Term Commitment In Afghan War,” 6/29/10, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=103363131] 

Gen. David Petraeus is on a … to Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan. 

Reducing foreign military presence leads to massive backlash destroying civil-military relations 
Kohn 8 [Richard H., Professor of History … ] 

Yet imagine the outcry any … now, or pay me later.” 

Low CMR causes the military to engage in wars without the consent of civilian leaders 
Feaver, 96 (Peter D. Feaver, Assistant professor of political science at Duke University, ARMED FORCES AND SOCIETY, Winter 1996, p. proquest) 
A direct seizure of political … and pursue its own interests? 

Nuclear War 
Cimbala 98 [Stephen, Professor of Political Science @ Penn State, "The Past and Future of Nuclear Deterrence", pg. 21, 1998] 
In particular, the quality of … by weapons of mass destruction.


====2NC/1NR Jazz==== 
=====2NC/1NR---Overview===== 

**It also makes the US unable to effectively contain China, which makes attack on Taiwan inevitable—most likely scenario for nuclear war**
**Cheong 1** [Ching, BA Economics, Senior Reporter on Chinese Politics for Straight Times, “Will Taiwan Break Away?: The Rise of Taiwanese Nationalism”, p. 5-6]

THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO THE high-… puts sovereignty above everything else. 

**AND, a risk of the link takes out the aff—CMR conflict means the military won’t implement the plan—vote neg on presumption**
**Feaver 3** [Peter D., Professor of Political Science – Duke, Armed Servants: Agency, Oversight, and Civil-Military Relations, p. 68] 

In practical terms, military shirking … policy will never be implemented.


=====2NC/1NR---Link Wall===== 

Plan steamrolls military opinion by decreasing presence without consulting them– this destroys civil-military relations. 
The Washington Independent 8 [Spencer Ackerman; 11/13/08; “… /18335/productive-obama-military-relationship-possible] 

During his July trip to … of the nation has forgotten.” 


[Specific Links typically follow]
==**Counterplans**== 

===**Bilateral Defense Treaty + Silk Road + Pakistan Aid CP (COIN Bad Afghanistan Affs)**=== 

Text: The United States federal government should create a strategy for the development of the Modern Silk Road and generate incentives to invest in this project while pressuring local governments to decrease bureaucratic obstacles to trade. The United States Departments of State and Treasury should convene international working groups through Friends of Pakistan to fund and implement an economic rescue package for Pakistan. This economic rescue package should include employment creation, humanitarian assistance and technical support for nuclear confidence-building measures between Pakistan and India, including ground based sensors. The United States federal government should negotiate a bilateral defense treaty with the government of Afghanistan that unequivocally commits to removing the Taliban from Afghanistan. The United States should adopt a counterinsurgency strategy that is primarily centered on protecting the Afghanistan population, and should provide all necessary resources to implement this strategy, including making the surge part of a permanent commitment to Afghanistan and clarifying that it has no withdrawal deadline. The United States should freeze the size of its training commitment to the Afghan National Army and focus on training for quality over quantity, locating ANA divisions in their local provinces, and training an ANA helicopter division for mobile operations.

Clarifying commitment to Afghanistan solves insurgency and terrorism, solves COIN
Lynch 8
**(U.S. Army Colonel, military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan, June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online)**

**In mid-January, Defense Secretary Robert Gates[...]been ducked for far too long.**

Counterplan establishes a Modern Silk Road which is vital to longer term stability and success in Afghanistan
Kuchins et. al. 10
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Senior Fellow and Director of the CSIS Russia and Eurasia Program, Andrew, Thomas Sanderson - Deputy Director and Senior Fellow in the CSIS Transnational Threats Project, David Gordon - Research Assistant and Program Coordinator, “Afghanistan: Building the Missing Link in the Modern Silk Road,” April, Washington Quarterly, <span style="color: black;">http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_KuchinsSandersonGordon.pdf</span>) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Road to Regional Transformation </span><span class="underline">… <span style="background-color: lime;">in</span> the heart of <span style="background-color: lime;">Eurasia</span>. </span>**

Counterplan solves perception of US goodwill and alleviates backlash to US military policies
Pervez ’08 **(Fouad,- writer, actor, policy analyst, and contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus July 11th “The Real Crisis in Pakistan” http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/5360.)**
**<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime;">The greatest threat Pakistan faces … </span></span><span class="SmallText-New"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">would be grim for everyone.</span></span>**


===**Condition China on Removal of Kim Jong-Il CP (vs. South Korea)**=== 


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Counterplan Text: The United States federal government should offer to <insert plan> if and only if the People’s Republic of China agrees to remove Kim Jong-Il from power.</span>

Conditioning the plan on Chinese support to remove Kim Jong Il from power is key to ensure stable power transition without war. China will say yes.
Carpenter, 06
**(Vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato, 10/11/06, Ted Galen, “China Must Pluck Kim from Nuke Perch,” http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=6721)**


**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">North Korea has now barged … </span>__at least explore the option.**


==**Criticisms**== 

===**Positive Peace Critique**=== 

====**1NC**==== 




The affirmative represents “war” as a singular, bounded event. This ontological distinction between “war” and “peace” ensures the continuation of everyday militarism and violence, turning the case.

**Chris J.** Cuomo**, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati,** 1996 **(“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via JSTOR, p. 30-31)**

**Philosophical attention to war has … military solutions for social problems.**



This representation of “war” as an isolated event leads to politics of crisis-control that can never hope to address the underlying structures of violence. Every singular “war” the affirmative hopes to prevent will just reappear over and over again—every time we do crisis-control, it trades off with deeper structural changes that can create a positive peace.

**Chris J.** Cuomo**, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati,** 1996 **(“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via JSTOR, p. 31-32)**

**Ethical approaches that do not … other state-funded militaristic campaigns.**


The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s problem-solving approach in favor of a critical interrogation of peace. The ontological stability that the affirmative takes for granted results in widespread violence—critical intervention is needed.

**Oliver P.** Richmond**, Professor of International Relations at the University of St. Andrews,** 2007 **(“Critical Research Agendas for Peace: The Missing Link in the Study of International Relations,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Volume 32, Issue 2, April-June, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Political Science Complete, p. 250-251)**

**Though there are many different … as a specific type among many.**

====**2NC Jazz**==== 

=====**2NC O/V**===== 



They won’t win offense—their conception of peace makes war into an abstraction—failure to interrogate the underlying context replicates violence.
**Chris J.** Cuomo**, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Cincinnati,** 1996 **(“War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence,” Hypatia, Volume 11, Number 4, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via JSTOR, p. 36)**
**3) Following several influential moves … patterns and connections among them.**

Stopping wars is good, but it’s not a sustainable strategy for achieving peace—only our focus on positive peace can create a meaningfully more secure and humane world.
**Gordon** Bennett**, co-chair of the Alliance for the Global Wellness Fund Treaty, teacher and long-time peace activist, and co-winner in 2001 of the Dahlberg Peace Award,** 2003 **(“From Negative to Positive Peacemaking,” Common Dreams, November 3, Available Online at http://www.commondreams.org/scriptfiles/views03/1103-03.htm, Accessed 08-02-2010)**
**On the other hand, peace … up" the ladders of economic development.**


=====**2NC A2: Permutation: Do Both**===== 


Criticism must precede problem-solving—the alternative is a prerequisite to the plan.
**Oliver P.** Richmond**, Professor of International Relations at the University of St. Andrews,** 2001 **(“A Genealogy of Peacemaking: The Creation and Re-Creation of Order,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Volume 26, Issue 3, July-September, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Political Science Complete)**
**Approaches to peacemaking and peacekeeping … is normatively desirable to do so.**



The permutation relies on a flawed regime of truth to justify action—only the alternative alone can spur emancipation.

**Oliver P.** Richmond**, Professor of International Relations at the University of St. Andrews,** 2001 **(“A Genealogy of Peacemaking: The Creation and Re-Creation of Order,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Volume 26, Issue 3, July-September, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Political Science Complete)**
**Making peace in "intractable" conflict … expectations of "peace" and "order."[3]**


===**Security K**=== 

====**Generic 1NC**==== 



Realism and power politics create self-fulfilling prophecies and make war more likely – turns case
George ’94
**(Jim, Senior lecturer in international relations in the Department of Political Science, Australian National University, “Discourses of Global Politics: A Critical (Re)Introduction to International Relations,” p. 13-14)**
**The dangers of this approach … on its third "great debate."**

Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy
**Graeme** Cheeseman**, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales,** and **Robert** Bruce **Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ, ‘**96 **(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)**
**This goal is pursued in … to understand them, and why?**


====**1NC Link - Afghanistan**==== 


Discourse surrounding Afghanistan is explicitly Western and realist – failure to take this into account dooms any policy to failure and error replication
Crowe 2k7
(L.A. “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security -Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’" [[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]])
The historical production of particular … and the ‘militarization’ discourse/myth.


====**1NC Link - Terrorism**==== 

Notions of “Islamic terrorism” assume that Islam is naturally violent and a major security threat to the west. This stops any attempts to negotiate with these groups and justifies their extermination as the only possible strategy 
Jackson 7 
(Richard, Centre for International Politics University of Manchester “Religion, Politics and Terrorism: A Critical Analysis of Narratives of “Islamic Terrorism””2007, [[http://www.socialsciences.manchester.ac.uk/disciplines/politics/researchgroups/cip/publications/documents/Jackson_000.pdf]]; html version from google created in 2010 is at http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:X-mxfLmPLMMJ:scholar.google.com/+%22Religion,+Politics+and+Terrorism:+A+Critical+Analysis+of+Narratives+of+%E2%80%9CIslamic+Terrorism%22%22&hl=en&as_sdt=80000000&as_vis=1)
First, central to the discourse … how extermination is a necessary response.

====1NC Link - Japan==== 

Construction of Japan as the other is rooted in oriental understandings of the east 
Teramoto 01 (Fukimo Teramoto, Masters in Communication, Culture, and Technology at Georgetown University, pg 1-4, Japan in an American Mirror: A Critical Study of American Perceptions of Japan) 

In this thesis, I would like … Meiji era following Commodore Perry’s arrival in 1853, World War II, Japan’s post-war recovery under the instruction by the American Occupation, and mutually interdependent economic relations since the midtwentieth century can not be discussed without American intervention or help.


====2NC/1NR Jazz==== 

=====2NC/1NR---Overview===== 

This means that securitization is the root cause of their impacts: failing to change a discursive environment that creates threats guarantees endless violence and serial policy failure
Michael Dillon and Julian Reid Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency. By: Dillon, Michael, Reid, Julian, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, 03043754, Jan-Mar2000**, Vol. 25, Issue 1 
More specifically, where there is a … is variously (policy) problematized by it.

=====2NC/1NR---Framework===== 


And policy relevance destroys scholarship- cold war proves- makes effective policy making impossible- that’s a turn 
Christopher I. Xenakis Assistant Professor of Political Science, Tidewater Community College What Happened to the Soviet Union? 2002
Why did so many … scholarship as it was commonplace. (p. 165-7) 

==Specific Rounds== 
===New Trier=== 
====Round 1 vs. GBS ST (COIN Bad)==== 
1NC: T- Combat Troops, Counterplan (Bilateral Defense Treaty + Silk Road + Pakistan Aid), Politics, Case
2NC: T- Combat Troops, Politics, Case (Hegemony)
1NR: Counterplan, Case (The War Advantage)
2NR: T- Combat Troops
====Round 3 vs. Dowling ?? (South Korea)==== 
1NC: T- Bases, Condition China on Removing Kim Jong Il CP, Politics, Positive Peace K, Case
2NC: T- Bases, Positive Peace K
1NR: Case, Conditionality, Politics
2NR: Conditionality, Politics, Case
====Round 5 vs. UChicago Lab SR (Critical South Korea)==== 
1NC: T- Presence Spec, T- Reduce =/= Eliminate, Guam DA, Politics, Case (Realism Good/Inevitable, Predictions Good)
2NC: T- Reduce =/= Eliminate, Politics DA, Guam DA
1NR: Case (Realism Good/Inevitable, Predictions Good)
2NR: Guam DA, Case (Realism Good/Inevitable, Predictions Good)
===Iowa Caucuses=== 
====Round 2 vs. New Trier MK (COIN Bad)==== 
1NC: T- Combat Troops, Security K, Politics, Case (Hegemony/Pakistan/Winning War Now/COIN good)
2NC: T- Combat Troops, Security K, Case (Hegemony)
1NR: Politics, Case (Pakistan)
2NR: Security K
====Round 4 vs. SFL YJ (Critical Japan)==== 
1NC: T- In means Within, CP, Guam DA, Politics, Deterrence, Case (Patriarchy, Realism Good/Inevitable)
2NC: CP, Guam DA, Deterrence
1NR: Case
2NR: CP, Guam DA
====Round 5 vs. Maine East SS (DUBs)==== 
1NC: T- Presence is Only Troops, T- Substantial = 50%, T- Deadline, DA- Politics, Case (Util Good/Inevit; Pollution)
2NC: T- Presence is Only Troops, T- Substantial = 50%, Util Good/Inevit
1NR: DA- Politics (Answers Kato Kritik)
2NR: DA- Politics, Case (Util Good/Inevit)
====Doubles vs. Blake MM (Drones)==== 
1NC: T- Presence is Only Troops, Security K, Politics DA, ROE CP, Case (Drones Good, COIN ineffective)
2NC: T- Presence is Only Troops, ROE CP
1NR: Politics DA, Case (Drones Good/COIN ineffective)
2NR: T- Presence is Only Troops
===Shawnee Mission East=== 
Initially note that I was debating with Sonia Larbi and not with Katie. 
====Round 2 vs. Blue Valley West ?? (Futenma)==== 
1NC: T: Substantial=50%, CMR DA, Heg DA, Case 
2NC: T- Substantial=50%, CMR DA, Heg DA
1NR: Case
2NR: Heg DA and case
====Round 4 vs. Bishop Seabury ?? (Afghanistan)==== 
1NC: T- Combat Troops, Deterrence DA, CMR DA, Case (CT Bad/COIN good/Winning War Now)
2NC: T- Combat Troops, Deterrence DA, CMR DA
1NR: Case (CT Bad/COIN good/Winning War Now)
2NR: Deterrence DA, Case (CT Bad/COIN Good/Winning War Now)
====Round 5 vs. Olathe South ?? (Futenma)==== 
1NC: T- Substantial= 50%, T- Reduce does not mean Future Increases, Consult Japan, Security K, Case 
2NC: T- Substantial=50%, T- Reduce does not mean Future Increases, Security K
1NR: Consult Japan, Case
2NR: T- Substantial=50%, T-Reduce does not mean Future Increases
====Octas vs. Bishop Miege ?? (Joint Military Exercises)==== 
1NC: T- Substantial=50%, T- Combat Troops, Deterrence (Jap Prolif), Condition on Denuclearization CP, Case
2NC: T- Substantial=50%, T- Combat Troops, Deterrence DA
1NR: Condition on Denuclearization CP, Case
2NR: T- Substantial=50%
===Glenbrooks=== 
====Round 1 vs. Bronx Science CK (COIN-->CT)==== 
1NC: T: Combat Troops, Bilateral Defense Treaty CP, Deterrence DA, Security K, Case
2NC: T: Combat Troops, Security K, Heg Advantage
1NR: Deterrence DA, Insurgency Advantage
2NR: Security K
====Round 3 vs. Wooster EZ (South Korea)==== 
1NC: T: Bases, Deterrence DA, Condition on Denuclearization CP, Positive Peace K, Case
2NC: T- Bases, Positive Peace K, Korean Conflict Advantage
1NR: Deterrence DA, Regionalism Advantage
2NR: Deterrence DA, Case
====Round 5 vs. Hendrickson DS (COIN-->CT)==== 
1NC: T: Combat Troops, Deterrence DA, Politics DA, Security K, Case
2NC: T: Combat Troops, Security K, Heg Advantage
1NR: Politics DA, Insurgency Advantage
2NR: Politics DA, Case
====Round 7 vs. Kinkaid SC (South Korea)==== 
1NC: T: Combat Troops, Deterrence DA, Politics DA, Positive Peace K, Case 
2NC: T: Combat Troops, Positive Peace K, Regionalism Advantage
1NR: Politics, Korean Conflict Advantage
2NR: Politics DA, Case
===Omaha Westside=== 
====Round 1 vs. Marshfield AM (Comfort Womyn Aff)==== 
1NC: Framework, Executive Order CP, Politics--Senate Rules, ASPEC, Case (Dehumynization)
2NC: Framework, ASPEC, Politics--Senate Rules, Case (Dehumynization)
1NR: Executive Order CP
2NR: Executive Order CP, Politics--Senate Rules
====Round 3 vs. Pembroke Hill GF (Turkey TNWs)==== 
1NC: T-Its, T- Presence =/= Weapons, CP- Nato does the Plan, Gender K, Case
2NC: T- Its, T- Presence =/= Weapons, Gender K, Case
1NR: CP- Nato does the Plan
2NR: Gender K
====Round 6 vs. Dowling MN (Japan Rearm)==== 
1NC: ASPEC, Executive Order CP, Politics--Senate Rules, Gender K, Case
2NC: ASPEC, Executive Order CP
1NR: Politics, Case
2NR: ASPEC
===Golden Desert=== 
====Round 1 vs. Juan Diego Catholic KE (South Korea)==== 
1NC: Deterrence DA, Egypt DA, Case
2NC: Egypt DA, Case
1NR: Deterrence DA
2NR: Deterrence DA, Case
====Round 3 vs. Millard South GS (Elect the Dead)==== 
1NC: Framework, Intellectualism Turns, Counter-Narrative, Borders K
2NC: Framework, Counter-Narrative
1NR: Intellectualism Turns
2NR: Intellectualism Turns, Counter-Narrative
====Round 6 vs. Rowland Hall- St. Mark's ?? (COIN)==== 
1NC: T- Combat Troops, Egypt DA, Bilateral Defense Treaty CP, Case
2NC: Egypt DA, Case [Note--I believe this is the only 2NC vs. COIN that I DIDN'T extend T- Combat Troops. I cried myself to sleep that evening.]
1NR: Bilateral Defense Treaty CP
2NR: Egypt DA, Case