[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==Plan text== 
The United States Federal Government should implement a phased withdrawal of its ground troops in the Republic of Korea
==Korean War== 
**Tensions on the Korean Peninsula are high, North Korea has threatened to attack South Korea and the U.S. due to military drills they perceive as rehearsal for invasion**
**Kim 8/16** <Hyung-Jin Kim is a staff writer for the associated press. August 16, 2010. North Country Times “North Korea, U.S., launch war games despite North Korea Threat.” http://www.nctimes.com/news/world/article_4d3fef4f-5420-5ad5-b4b6-8a53ed2c0da2.html>
South Korean and U.S. troops launched computerized military drills Monday …… has ever met in the world."

**South Korean and U.S. military maneuvers are rising tensions on the peninsula and emboldening China against them**
**Jung 8/31** <Jung Sung Ki, August 31, 2010. “ROK, U.S. to hold joint naval drills in West Sea” The Korea Times http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/08/205_72328.html>
South Korea and the United States will conduct joint anti-submarine …… North Korean submarine sank the Cheonan warship near the West Sea border, killing 46 sailors.

**U.S. troops create tensions on the peninsula that cause miscalculation and escalation to war-five internal links why the U.S. is key**
**Sanger, 10** (5/28/10, David E. Sanger, NY Times, “In the Koreas, Five Possible Ways to War,” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/weekinreview/30sanger.html, JMP)
Usually, there is a familiar cycle to Korea crises. Like a street gang showing off its power to run ………… or wherever else North Korea found its customers.

**A Korean war would draw in the U.S. and China and embolden them against each other**
**Watcher, 10** (5/27/10, Paul Watcher, writer for aol. http://www.aolnews.com/world/article/south-korea-vs-north-korea-what-another-korean-war-would-look-like/19491485)
(May 27) -- Tensions continue to mount on the Korean peninsula in the wake of an ……… the cult state that is North Korea. Whatever military challenges war would bring would be dwarfed by these postwar social challenges.

**War between the Koreas and their allies goes nuclear and ensures CBW use**
**Goodspeed, 10** – Award winning report for The National Post (Peter, 6/26/10, The National Post, “Kim's rain of terror; If war starts, North Korea could shower South Korea with 8,500 high-explosive shells every minute” l/n)
Yet, after 57 years of an uneasy armistice, if another war breaks out on the …………releasing massive walls of water from its dams above the DMZ.

**Even a limited nuclear war would cause mass death, global cooling, global agricultural failure, and extinction**
**Robock and Toon in 10** <”Local Nuclear War, Global Catastrophe.” Alan Robock is a professor of climatology, associate director of the Center for Environmental Prediction, and a part of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Owen Toon is chair of the department of atmospheric and oceanic sciences at the University of Colorado, and fellow of the American Meteorological Society and American Geophysical Union. Scientific American, January 2010 Issue, pgs 74-81>
Twenty-five years ago international teams of scientists showed that a nuclear war between …… and remain suspended in the upper atmosphere for years, continuing to block sunlight and to cool the earth.

**A phased withdrawal is key, it prevents U.S. draw in and allows regional security efforts to effectively resolve Korea crises**
**Carpenter, 09** – vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, CATO Handbook for Congress, 7th Edition, “54. East Asian Security Commitments,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb111/hb111-54.pdf, JMP)
South Korea The U.S. alliance with the Republic of Korea ……. little benefit today for keeping South Korea as a security client.

**U.S. presence is useless to deter aggression – withdrawal will motivate South Korea and China to stabilize and de-nuclearize the peninsula**
**Erickson, 10** – Executive Director of CenterMovement.org (5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/, JMP)
On the night of March 26 the South Korean 1,200-ton warship Cheonan …….Cold War artifact that needs to be brought home before it’s too late.

==Sucession Politics== 
**North Korea is rushing a major transfer of power now due to Kim Jong Il’s sickness**
**Harlan 9/5** <Chico Harlan writes for the Washington Post Foreign Service. September 5, 2010. “N. Korea’s leader set to begin power shift to son, experts say” The Washington Post http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/09/04/AR2010090403059.html>
North Korean leader Kim Jong Il will probably use ….. act as a regent for the power transfer, and Chinese President Hu Jintao.

**Succession politics makes aggression worse and conflict more likely because Kim Jong Un will try to use military victories to maintain power**
**Sang-Hun, 10** – (5/28/10, Choe, The New York Times, “Succession Concerns Drive North Korea, Experts Say,” http://www.lexisnexis.com)
SEOUL, South Korea -- Over the years, South Korean officials and analysts …………. and his top aides were all in China.''

**The current succession crisis is headed for a regime collapse that would destabilize the region**
**Meyers, 10** – professor at Dongseo University in South Korea (3/26/10, B.R. Meyers, “ North Korea on the Edge; If the regime collapses, will the rest oftheworldbeready?”http://online.wsj.com/articSB10001424052748704100604575145672974954144.html?mod=WSJ_hpp_RIGHTTopCar ousel)
As for tensions with the south, they rose again Friday with the sinking of …..in restoring stability.'' The possibility has Seoul worried too.

**U.S. presence and intervention during a regime collapse would cause superpower conflict with China**
**Emmott, 10** – Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece, JMP)
It is time to worry rather more, by focusing instead ……stuck in the 1950s. Unless that happens, next time it could really be war.

**Withdrawing troops avoids conflict and solves by motivating China and South Korea to effectively influence the leadership transition**
**Bandow, 08** (9/15/08, Doug Bandow, Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan “Dear Leader Goes South,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=19868, JMP)
North Korea offers a rare example of monarchical communism. ……Pyongyang to others in the region, most importantly South Korea and China.

**Chinese involvement is key to stabilize Korea – prevents violent collapse and denuclearizes the peninsula**
**Bandow, 10** –< Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336, JMP)>
Second, the United States, South Korea and Japan must develop a unified …… incident should impel a serious rethinking of the current U.S.-ROK alliance as well as the strategy for involving China in the North Korean issue.

==Nuclear Arms Trade== 
**North Korea has announced it has the technology to build nuclear bombs and plans to increase its stockpile because of U.S. presence**
**Chan-Kyong in 9** <Park Chan-Kyong. AFP.”North Korea Vows to Build More Nuclear Bombs” June 13, 2009 http://www.armybase.us/2009/06/north-korea-vows-to-build-more-nuclear-bombs/>
The hardline communist state, in a foreign ministry statement …… inevitable course of action forced upon us by the US hostile policy and nuclear threats.”

**North Korea is already a lynchpin of eastern arms trade and is likely to begin selling WMD’s to terrorist states**
**Solomon 9** <Jay Solomon, Wall Street Journal, May 29, 2009. “Tests point to spread of weapons trade” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB124347081988160711.html>
Signs of growth in North Korea's nuclear program and the country's…… region," said a senior Israeli counterproliferation official. "All of them.”

**Allowing North Korea to sell these weapons makes nuclear terrorism inevitable**
**Weinberger 9/5** <Sharon Weinberger. Sharon, a national security reporter based in Washington, has been a contributor for Wired's Danger Room and has written for Nature, Discover, The Financial Times and Slate “Nuclear Terrorism, Five Scary Scenarios.” September 5, 2010. http://www.aolnews.com/team/sharon-weinberger/>
Security experts have long warned of the danger posed …….develop biological or chemical weapons," they wrote.

**Terrorist acquisition of nuclear weapons guarantees their use; terrorists cannot be deterred like states**
**Cirincione in 4** <June 2004, Joseph Cirincione. Director for Non Proliferation Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “A Global Assessment of Nuclear Proliferation Threats” Weapons of Mass Destruction Commission. Pgs 2-5. http://www.wmdcommission.org/files/No10.pdf>
Despite decades of disarmament efforts, global nuclear arsenals …… facilities and scientists in the event of a government collapse.

**North Korea wants U.S. troops off the peninsula before it will denuclearize**
**Niksh in 9** <Larry A Niksh, specialist in foreign affairs, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons Development and Diplomacy” May 27, 2009 Congressional Research Service. http://italy.usembassy.gov/pdf/other/Rl33590.pdf>
Denuclearization must include the entire …. Mutual Defense Treaty.

**Only a full withdrawal of U.S. troops will motivate China to denuclearize the peninsula**
**Garfinkle, 03** – taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle, JMP)
It made sense for ….. it. We can help them do so. 

=Negative= 
==Nietzsche K== 
We read a slightly different 1NC pretty much every round depending on the aff, but here's an example of a 1NC:

**The first link is pity:**
**The aff acts out of a lust for power. The other is just another possession to acquire. This**
**1. forces the creation of more suffering others, turning case, and**
**2. makes us hate everything else in the world, which is the root cause of violence.**
**Nietzsche 1882** (The Gay Science, Kaufmann translation)
"The things people call love...name is friendship"

**The second link is ressentiment:**
**The aff attempts to bring Apollonian order to a Dionysian world by eliminating all that is foreign and unknown so that it conforms to the rational. Their mindset is the cause of all wars and security discourse.**
**Huysmans 98**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Huysmans, Jef, Lecturer in Government and Politics at the University of Kent, “Security! What do You Mean?”, The European Journal of International Relations, vol. 4 no. 2, 1998, p. 235-6)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"The </span>threat construction...relation to death"

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The third link is the morality of the herd:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Morality defines value to life in terms of the individual's utility to the herd, which justifies the violent extermination of those who subscribe to other moralities. This makes violence inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Nietzsche 1882** (The Gay Science, Kaufmann translation)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "Herd Instinct...in the individual"</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is to reject the aff's call to action and embrace the world as-is. This allows us to find meaning within and escape the cycle of violence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **Nietzsche 1882** (The Gay Science, Kaufmann translation)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "One thing is needful...bad and gloomy"</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, the alt comes first. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their rush to act before considering ontological questions ensures the errors that led to their impact scenarios will be repeated, making them inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> **Nietzsche 1882** (The Gay Science, Kaufmann translation)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Consciousness. - Consciousness is...relates to errors!"</span>
==Nuclearism K== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1. No rational actor would ever enter into a nuclear war because of mutually assured destruction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">G John **Ikenberry** Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University “The Rise of China and the Future of the West” Foreign Affairs January/February 20**08** http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20080101faessay87102/g-john-ikenberry/the-rise-of-china-and-the-future-of-the-west.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"The most important benefit...as a historical process."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2. So why are we still worried? Because we're not dealing with rational actors. If war ever happened, their planning scenarios would fall apart. We don't know what would happen, and there's not much we could do about it anyway.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chaloupka,** 19**92** (William, associate professor of political science at the University of Montana, Knowing Nukes, p. 14-16)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Klein and Warner...most obvious points."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3. The nuke is the end point of a process of dehumanizing war. We have transferred control from humans to things humans created, and we depend on these things remaining in our control.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chaloupka**, 19**92** (William, associate professor of political science at the University of Montana, Knowing Nukes, p. 27-28) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"However thoroughly Virilio...with functioning parts."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">4.This projection of power onto the “thinking missle” makes it incredibly potent symbolically. Their prohibition against nuclear war sets it up as an object of desire. Because we are told we cannot have nuclear war, we infer that this means we would have wanted it if there were no prohibition. This is a self-replicating cycle.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chaloupka**, 19**92** (William, associate professor of political science at the University of Montana, Knowing Nukes, p. 60-62) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"This is my claim...years: 'Nuke 'em!'"</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">5. But we don't have control anymore. Liberalism reacts to this disappearance of predictability by trying to recover it, and this leads to an obsession with controlling the bomb. Detonating the bomb is the ultimate exercise of such control.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chaloupka**, 19**92** (William, associate professor of political science at the University of Montana, Knowing Nukes, p. 64-66)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"The robot - this symbolic...arrange for ourselves."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">6. The alternative is to reject the rhetorical constructs of the 1AC in order to deprive the bomb of all meaning and even create our own meaning for it. Voting negative challenges the way the bomb defines the status quo culture of fear, using the power of the bomb against itself.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chaloupka**, 19**92** (William, associate professor of political science at the University of Montana, Knowing Nukes, p. 137-138)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "In Stanley Kubrick's...cyborg - at last."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">7. Their framework is too late: Students view appeals to democracy, role-playing, and preparing us to be policymakers as a sucker's game, and they've already withdrawn. Only the alt's playful approach can respond to this mass inertness, which will lead to political change.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Chaloupka**, 19**92** (William, associate professor of political science at the University of Montana, Knowing Nukes, p. 90-92)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "As Nietzsche well knew...serious substitute lifestyles"</span>
==Alta Round 3 - Neg vs. TNW's aff== 
Nuclearism K above, and

Oil DA:

rosen 10
us security talks everywhere - iran, korea, turkey…


kirgard 5
us turkey relations fragile if we take away the tnws


turkey relats key to solve central asia and terr in jpn
x


claron 8
oil wars over caspian --> wars


Consult NATO CP:
consult nato
binding


himol ward 3
rm us perception of unilat


chernoff 95
key to nato



consult key to manage conflicts
x


consult spillover
mckagan 4