[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC - Glenbrooks== 

**Contention One is The War In Afghanistan**

**First, the war continues to go badly—every COIN metric shows epic failure: governance is hopeless, the elections were a joke, and corruption is rampant.**
Michael A. **Cohen**, former Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation, B.A. in International Relations from American University and M.A. in International Relations from Columbia University, served in the Department of State as chief speechwriter for U.S. Representative to the United Nations Bill Richardson and Undersecretary of State Stuart Eizenstat, currently serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, 10-29-**2010** (“Petraeus Versus Obama,” //Foreign Policy//, October 29th, Available Online at http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/29/petraeus_versus_obama, Accessed 11-10-2010)
What seems most backwards… official shrugs in Kabul. 

**Second, claims of military progress do not reflect reality—negative authors are describing a war that only exists in the military’s imagination.**
Michael A. **Cohen**, former Senior Research Fellow at the New America Foundation, B.A. in International Relations from American University and M.A. in International Relations from Columbia University, served in the Department of State as chief speechwriter for U.S. Representative to the United Nations Bill Richardson and Undersecretary of State Stuart Eizenstat, currently serves on the board of the National Security Network and has taught at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, 10-29-**2010** (“Petraeus Versus Obama,” //Foreign Policy//, October 29th, Available Online at http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/29/petraeus_versus_obama, Accessed 11-10-2010)
Today there are two wars… military progress in Afghanistan. 

**Third, COIN is doomed by its inherent complexity—we’ll enter the accompanying PowerPoint slide into the record of the debate—it speaks for itself.**
Charles V. **Peña**, Senior Fellow at the Independent Institute, Senior Fellow with the Coalition for a Realistic Foreign Policy, former Senior Fellow with the George Washington University Homeland Security Policy Institute and Former Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, Adviser to the Straus Military Reform Project, Analyst for MSNBC television, holds an M.A. in Security Studies from George Washington University, **05-23**-2010 (“Why We Can’t Win in Afghanistan,” //Antiwar.com//, May 23rd, Available Online at http://original.antiwar.com/pena/2010/05/23/why-we-cant-win-in-afghanistan/print/, Accessed 10-01-2010)
This is an actual PowerPoint slide… completely new pattern emerges. 

**Fourth, shifting to counter-terrorism is the most effective strategy—it reduces casualties, reassures allies, and keeps the pressure on extremists.**
Thomas **Snodgrass**, Retired Colonel in the U.S. Air Force, Director of Military Affairs for The Society of Americans for National Existence, Former Adjunct Professor of History at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, **08-05**-2010 (“Conservatives: Abandoning Counterinsurgency,” //The American Thinker//, August 5th, Available Online at http://www.americanthinker.com/2010/08/conservatives_abandoning_count.html, Accessed 08-30-2010)
The lesson learned from… and quickly as possible. 

**Fifth, the plan is a substantial reduction in military presence—this saves billions and reduces resentment.**
**The Afghanistan Study Group**—an ad hoc group of public policy practitioners, former U.S. government officials, academics, business representatives, policy-concerned activists and association leaders concerned with the Obama administration’s policy course in Afghanistan, **08-16**-2010 (“The Way Forward: A Five-Point Approach,” //A New Way Forward: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan//, August 16th, Available 
Online at http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/NewWayForward_report.pdf, Accessed 08-29-2010) 

2. Scale back and eventually Suspend Combat operations… large and intrusive military presence. 

**Sixth—pessimistic predictions about the consequences of a drawdown are wrong—we’ll beat their disads with this card alone.**
**The Afghanistan Study Group, 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (an ad hoc group of public policy practitioners, former U.S. government officials, academics, business representatives, policy-concerned activists and association leaders concerned with the Obama administration’s policy course in Afghanistan “What’s Wrong With The Current U.S Strategy,” </span>//A New Way Forward: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, August 16, [[http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/NewWayForward_report.pdf]])</span>
Second, a U.S. drawdown would not… increase the threat from Al Qaeda. 

**Finally –The best case scenario for the current strategy in Afghanistan is even worse than outright failure—staying the course is delusional.**
Tom **Engelhardt**, Fellow at The Nation Institute, author of //TomDispatch//, Co-founder of the American Empire Project, **2010** (“Tomgram: Engelhardt, The Petraeus Syndrome,” //TomDispatch//, July 11th, Available Online at http://www.tomdispatch.com/dialogs/print/?id=175272, Accessed 08-31-2010)
Okay, it hasn’t happened yet… who needs a future Petraeus Syndrome? 

**Thus the plan:**

**The United States Federal Government should substantially draw down its military presence in Afghanistan by shifting from a counter-insurgency strategy to a counter-terrorism strategy including a decrease to 68,000 troops or less by October 2011 and 30,000 or less by July 2012.**

**Contention Two is American Military Power**
**COIN is devastating U.S. global leadership—it overstretches our forces, decimates our diplomatic leverage, and trades off with defense modernization.**
**Haddick, 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of </span>//Small Wars Journal//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” </span>//Foreign Policy//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, June 25, 2010, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex]]]</span>
Afghanistan is becoming a deepening vortex… will be paying them for years to come. 

**Second, COIN crushes military readiness—it creates an expectations gap and diverts focus from core capabilities.**
**Gentile, 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [Gian P. Gentile, Assistant Professor of History and Director of the Military History Program at the United States Military Academy, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army who has served two tours of duty in Iraq, Visiting Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, “Freeing the Army from the Counterinsurgency Straightjacket,” </span>//Joint Force Quarterly//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, Issue 58, July, 2010, [[http://ndu.edu/press/counterinsurgency-straightjacket.html]]]</span>
Carl von Clausewitz said that… find the time to do it now. 


**This decimates our military power and risks the rise of hostile global rivals.**
**Goure, 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [Daniel Goure, Vice President of the Lexington Institute, former Director of the Office of Strategic Competitiveness in the Office of the Secretary of Defense, former Deputy Director of the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, holds an M.A. and Ph.D. International Relations and Russian Studies from Johns Hopkins University and a B.A. in Government and History from Pomona College, 2010, “Future Defense Budget Choices Require Clear Strategic Priorities,” </span>//Early Warning Blog//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">—the official blog of the Lexington Institute, September 3, </span>[[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/future-defense-budget-choices-require-clear-strategic-priorities?a=1&c=1171]]<span style="font-size: 9pt;">]</span>
The United States cannot afford its… outer space and cyber space. 


**Independently, COIN narrows the gap between the U.S. and its peer competitors—this negates the benefits of strong military power.**
Bernard I. **Finel**, Professor of Military Strategy and Operations at the U.S. National War College, former Executive Director of the Security Studies Program and the Center for Peace and Security Studies at Georgetown University, **02-01**-2010 (“An alternative to COIN,” //Armed Forces Journal//, February Available Online at http://www.afji.com/2010/02/4387134, Accessed 10-12-2010)
The U.S. military is… where American forces excel. 

**The impact is decisive—strong military leadership is crucial to spur the international cooperation needed to address emerging threats—failure to do so makes global conflict inevitable.**
**The Quadrennial Defense Review Independent Panel**—a bipartisan congressional panel charged with conducting an assessment of the assumptions, strategy, findings, and risks described in the Department of Defense’s Quadrennial Defense Review, **2010** (“The QDR in Perspective: Meeting America’s National Security Needs In the 21st Century,” The Final Report of the Quadrennial Defense Review Independent Panel, Released on July 29th, Available Online at http://www.usip.org/files/qdr/qdrreport.pdf, Accessed 11-12-2010, p. 28-29)
These five trends frame a range… higher than anyone would like. 

**And—strong military power is key to deter the rise of hostile global rivals—maintaining a superiority gap is key.**
**Holmes, 09**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [Kim R. Holmes, Ph.D., Vice President for Foreign and Defense Policy Studies and Director of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies at The Heritage Foundation, 2009, “The Perils of Prediction and Unpreparedness in Building the Future Force,” Heritage Foundation Lecture #1131, September 2, [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/hl1131.cfm]]]</span>
I think the underlying assumption… we have "run up the score." 

**Prioritize this impact—great power conflict is the only existential risk.**
**Chisholm, 05**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [Paul K. Chisholm, foreign policy and international relations scholar based in Kenya, holds a University Degree in Sociology and Diploma in Human Resources, “Terrorism, the Threat in Perspective and Great Power Conflict,” </span>//Free World Syndicate//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, April, 2005, [[http://www.synd.org/opinion-columns-chisholm/terrorism.html]]]</span>
We've heard much about… potential conflicts between nuclear parties. 

**Contention Three is the Grand Strategy**
**First, an exclusive focus on Islamic terrorism has diverted America’s focus and weakened its global power.**
**Friedman, 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [George Friedman, internationally recognized expert in security and intelligence issues relating to national security, information warfare and computer security, Founder, Chairman, and Chief Intelligence Officer of Stratfor—a private intelligence company that provides customized intelligence services for its clients, holds a Ph.D. in Government from Cornell University, 2010, “9/11 and the 9-Year War,” Republished from Stratfor by RealClearPolitics, September 8, [[http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2010/09/08/911_and_the_9-year_war_99164.html]]]</span>
The most significant effect of 9/11… potential challenges to the United States. 

**Unfortunately, the current strategy in Afghanistan bogs the U.S. down and constrains the effectiveness of its power.**
**Friedman, 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [George Friedman, internationally recognized expert in security and intelligence issues relating to national security, information warfare and computer security, Founder, Chairman, and Chief Intelligence Officer of Stratfor—a private intelligence company that provides customized intelligence services for its clients, holds a Ph.D. in Government from Cornell University, “9/11 and the 9-Year War,” Republished from Stratfor by RealClearPolitics, September 8, 2010, [[http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2010/09/08/911_and_the_9-year_war_99164.html]])</span>
The initial response was understandable… along with the war on al Qaeda. 

**Third, Afghanistan is distracting the U.S. from grand strategic challenges that pose existential risks—the plan is crucial to refocus foreign policy. This solves the impacts to all of their DAs.**
Kanti **Bajpai**, Professor of International Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University (India), Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at both the School of Interdisciplinary Area Studies and the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Oxford (England), **2010** (“Exit Is A Smarter Strategy,” //The Times of India//, September 13th, Available Online at http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/articleshow/6541291.cms?prtpage=1, Accessed 10-01-2010)
The problem with the present… not lose the woods for the trees. 

**Fourth, Afghanistan is crushing U.S. diplomatic leverage—Obama’s Asia trip proves.**
Stephen M. **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walt</span>__** is the professor of international affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government. He previously taught at Princeton University and the University of Chicago, where he served as master of the social science collegiate division and deputy dean of social sciences. He has been a resident associate of the Carnegie Endowment for Peace and a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution. He is also a member of the editorial boards of Foreign Policy, Security Studies, International Relations, and Journal of Cold War Studies, and coeditor of the Cornell Studies in Security Affairs, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">11-08</span>__**-2010 (“Don't give away the store in Asia”, //Foreign Policy//, November 8th, Available Online at [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/11/08/obama_asia_and_israel]])
I wouldn't call it a "shellacking,"… into a deep economic hole. 

**And, this accesses every major impact—remaining bogged down in Afghanistan jeopardizes all U.S. foreign policy initiatives.**
**The Afghanistan Study Group, 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (an ad hoc group of public policy practitioners, former U.S. government officials, academics, business representatives, policy-concerned activists and association leaders concerned with the Obama administration’s policy course in Afghanistan “What’s Wrong With The Current U.S Strategy,” </span>//A New Way Forward: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, August 16, http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/NewWayForward_report.pdf)</span>
Finally, the rising costs of the war… a fundamentally different approach. 

**And, failing to reign-in imperial overstretch risks global conflicts—strategic retrenchment is key to maintain U.S. power.**
**Layne, 06**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [Christopher Layne, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, 2006, “The Unipolar Illusion Revisited: The Coming End of the United States' Unipolar Moment," International Security, Volume 31, Number 2, Fall, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Project Muse)</span>
The United States has a hegemony problem… is America's next grand strategy. 

**Finally, this is the controlling impact—successfully managing the transition away from unipolarity while maintaining U.S. leadership is crucial to prevent great power conflict.**
**Layne, 10**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, “Graceful Decline: The End of Pax Americana,” </span>//The American Conservative//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, May 1, 2010, [[http://amconmag.com/article/2010/may/01/00030/]]]</span>
The United States emerged from World War II… change the way we see the world.

==1AC - Glenbrooks Round 5== 
Same as above except instead of Engelhardt, this card:
**Finally, attempts to pinpoint the most likely proximate cause of nuclear conflict are futile—history demonstrates the importance of avoiding overconfidence and acknowledging uncertainty.**
Keith B. **Payne**, Head of the Graduate Department of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University, President of National Institute for Public Policy, former Deputy Assistant Secretary Of Defense, **2010** (“Precision Prediction,” National Review Online, January 18th, Available Online at http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/print/228975, Accessed 11-11-2010) 
A noted journal, The Bulletin of the… is pure political flimflam. 




=Negative= 
==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**Topicality Violations**</span>== 
===ASPEC=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="color: black;">Power in the federal government is divided into three branches—the affirmative does not specify</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">ROTUNDA 2001</span>** <span style="color: black;">(18 Const. Commentary 319, “THE COMMERCE CLAUSE, THE POLITCAL QUESTION DOCTRINE, AND MORRISON,” lexis)
The Framers of our...Houses of Congress.</span>
**<span style="color: black;">Voting Issue-</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Negative ground—specification is key to generate enough specific uniqueness and link magnitude so that generic social services now don’t non-unique our disadvantages. Gives us textual competition for agent counter-plans—key to specific disadvantages and high tech solvency arguments</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">ELMORE 1990</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Professor of public affairs at the University of Washington, Political science quarterly, pg. 605)
Analysis of policy...realm of implementation.</span></span></span>
===Presence=== 
**A. Interpretation - presence requires forward deployed forces physically present within the country**
**Dismukes, 94** – representative of the Center for Naval Analyses to the London staff of the Commander in Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe. (Bradford, “National Security Strategy and Forward Presence: Implications for Acquisition and Use of Forces,” March, http://cna.org/sites/default/files/research/2793019200.pdf) Italics in original, CONUS = Continental United States 
Another difference between presence…considered part of presence.

===Substantial=== 

**A. Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country** 
**Blechman et al, 97** – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14) 
The highly complex nature… infrastructure and sustainment capabilities.”2 

**A substantial reduction in presence requires at least a 50% decrease** 
**C.B.C.R.R.A, 92** (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis) 
TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT… and moved to another installation. 


==Disadvantages== 
===Deterrence=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="color: black;">The U.S. is taking a tough line to deter future North Korean aggression</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Reuters, 10</span>** <span style="color: black;">[5/24/10, Jeff Mason, “Obama Tells Military: Prepare for North Korea Aggression,” [[http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/05/24-6]]]
Washington - President Barack Obama...would be appropriate," he said.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Withdrawal will wreck U.S. influence</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Kang & Cha, 03</span>** <span style="color: black;">[May/June 2003, David C. Kang, associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, and Victor D. Cha, associate professor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,” [[http://www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf]]]
“The United States Should...of its alliance are not.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Will also cause Japan to nuclearize and embolden China against Taiwan</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Dao, 03</span>** <span style="color: black;">[1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html]]]
Deciding if now is the time...they see in the region."</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT.</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Halloran, 09</span>** <span style="color: black;">[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics,[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]]]
That anxiety has reinvigorated...under the US nuclear umbrella. </span></span></span>
**US withdrawal wrecks regional stability – causes miscalc, arms races, and war and other factors won’t check escalation**
**Richardson, 06** [Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]]] 
Rumors of a substantial drawdown… even in a reunified Korea.

===US-Japan Alliance=== 

**The U.S. and Japan have just committed to strengthening the security alliance—decreased military presence would be a slap in the face to Prime Minister Kan.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Wall Street Journal, 11-14-2010** (“Kan Backs U.S. Military Role in Asia,” Byline Yuka Hayashi, November 14th, Available Online at http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703560504575611960683795830.html?mod=googlenews_wsj, Accessed 11-16-2010) </span></span>
Japanese prime minister Naoto Kan… in the region," Mr. Kan said. 

**US-Japan BMD cooperation is critical to relations and alliance**
**Rubinstein, 07** (Gregg A. Rubinstein, 9/5, Official of the U.S. Departments of State and Defense, Consultant on U.S.-Japan Defense Programs, “US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospects” [[http://www.japanconsidered.com/OccasionalPapers/Rubinstein%20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdf]]) 
Development of missile defense cooperation… Japanese defense establishments. 

**That’s key to Asian stability, prolif, and regional deterrence**
**Flournoy 7/16** (Michele, U.S. undersecretary of defense for policy, 2010, “POINT OF VIEW/ Michele Flournoy: U.S.-Japan alliance a cornerstone in a complex world”, [[http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201007150534.html]]) 
As we celebrate the 50th anniversary… cornerstone in a complex world. 

===US-India Relations=== 

**US-Indo cooperation is rising but India is still concerned about a withdrawal** 
**Schaffer 2010** (Teresita, Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Obama in India: Many High Notes, Much Work Ahead”, November 9, [[http://csis.org/publication/obama-india-many-high-notes-much-work-ahead]]) 
Looking beyond the bilateral… assumes a nonpermanent seat. 

**A withdrawal from Afghanistan would crush US-Indo relations** 
**The Washington Times 2010** (“McCain: India fears U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan” November 5, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/nov/5/mccain-india-fears-us-withdrawal-afghanistan/]]) 
Fears about a premature U.S. withdrawal… recent U.S. foreign policy." 

**Relations are key to prevent the spread of WMDs and instability throughout Asia** 
**Burns 2005** (Nicholas, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, Congressional Testimony before the House International Relations Committee, “The U.S. and India: An Emerging Entente?” September 8, [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/official_docs/dos/dos090805.pdf]]) 
A strong democratic India… programs have for both countries. 

==Counterplans== 
===Appropriations CP=== 

**The counterplan is mutually exclusive with the plan—only the President can order a withdrawal—Congressional action to eliminate funding is a distinct action that results in withdrawal.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Rosen, 2k7** (Jeffrey Rosen is the legal affairs editor of The New Republic and author of The Most Democratic Branch: How the Courts Serve America. "In Wartime, Who Has the Power?"
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1) </span></span>
Legal scholars — both critics and supporters… specified numbers of troops. 

**The counterplan is key to reign in the Imperial Presidency—Congressional use of the power of the purse is the best way to reassert legislative control of checks and balances**
**Raven-Hansen and Banks, 94** (Peter Raven-Hansen Rsearch Professor of Law, The National Law Center, George Washington University, William C. Banks Professor of Law Syracuse University College of Law Virginia Law Review May, 1994 80 Va. L. Rev. 833 “Pulling The Purse Strings Of The Commander In Chief”) 
In the particular context… national security practices. [[#12b1ffbe7a3a80a9_r119]]

**An overstrong presidency guts the Constitution and risks Interventionist wars**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Schlesinger, 2k4**
(Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., Professor Emeritus, City University of New York Graduate Center, a Pulitzer Prize recipient and American historian and social critic whose work explored the liberalism of American political leaders including Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy, and Robert F. Kennedy. “The Imperial Presidency”, 2004, p. 497-498.) </span></span>
There is little more typically… wars and grandiose dreams. 

**Sole presidential authority makes nuclear war inevitable**
**Forrester 89** [Ray, Professor, @ Hastings College of the Law, University of California, Former dean of the law 
schools at Vanderbilt, Tulane, and Cornell, “Presidential Wars in the Nuclear Age: An Unresolved Problem” George Washington Law Review, August, 57 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 1636, Lexis] 
A basic theory--if not the basic sole possession of the President. 

==Critiques== 
===Positive Peace=== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="color: black;">The Schema---Peace is a psychological not material factor. Traditional conflict management strategies promote militarism through symptom focus promoting structural violence. Failure to explore the psychological roots of enemy creation makes the 1AC harms and inherency claims suspect.</span>** **<span style="color: black;">Smoke and Harman, 87</span>** <span style="color: black;">[Richard Smoke BA Harvard magna cum laude, PhD MIT, Professor at Brown, Winner Bancroft Prize in History, and Willis Harman M.S. in Physics and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University, Paths To Peace, 1987, Entire Preface] The existence of nuclear weapons…is to believe it can be done</span>

**<span style="color: black;">The AFF represents an unstable world needing innovative solutions to constant problems, which entrenches insecurity logic. The impact is a circular apocalyptic impulse that makes every impact inevitable.</span>** **<span style="color: black;">Chernus, 01</span>** <span style="color: black;">[Ira, Professor of Religious Studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder, “Fighting Terror in the National Insecurity State,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position-x: 100%; background-position-y: 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat;">[[http://spot.colorado.edu/~chernus/WaronTerrorismEssays/FightingTerror.htm]]</span>] And the vision of an endless…a genuinely secure future</span>
**<span style="color: black;">The impact turns and outweighs the case</span>** **<span style="color: black;">Zuleuta, 04</span>** <span style="color: black;">[Felicity de Zuleuta, MD Cambridge, Psychotherapist, Attachment and Human Survival ed Green and Scholes, 2004] It is clear that childhood…mankind is to survive</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Critical praxis outweighs policy making---voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy</span>** **<span style="color: black;">Cheeseman and Bruce, 96</span>** <span style="color: black;">[Graeme Cheesman Senior Lecturer at New South Wales, and Robert Bruce Associate Professor in social sciences at Curtin University, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, 1996, p. 5-9] This goal is pursued in ways…not to understand to understand them, and why?</span> </span></span>
===Enlightenment=== 

**FIRST—we control uniqueness – the world is getting better in the status quo because of Enlightenment progress.** 
Stephen Eric **Bronner**, Distinguished Professor of Political Science and a Member of the Graduate Faculty in Comparative Literature and German Studies at Rutgers University, **2004** (Reclaiming the Enlightenment: Toward a Politics of Radical Engagement, Published by Columbia University Press, ISBN 9780231126090, p. xi) 
Humanity is not in the past… inspired by the Enlightenment. 

**SECOND—engagement with the political sphere is crucial to give meaning to theory – the affirmative’s abandonment of enlightenment values perpetuates oppression.** 
Stephen Eric **Bronner**, Distinguished Professor of Political Science and a Member of the Graduate Faculty in Comparative Literature and German Studies at Rutgers University, **2004** (//Reclaiming the Enlightenment: Toward a Politics of Radical Engagement//, Published by Columbia University Press, ISBN 9780231126090, p. xii-xiii) 
Enlightenment intellectuals provide… the prodigal to return home. 

**THIRD—now is the key time – opportunities for meaningful engagement are ripe – a commitment to political action is key.** 
Stephen Eric **Bronner**, Distinguished Professor of Political Science and a Member of the Graduate Faculty in Comparative Literature and German Studies at Rutgers University, **2004** (//Reclaiming the Enlightenment: Toward a Politics of Radical Engagement//, Published by Columbia University Press, ISBN 9780231126090, p. x-xi) 
The preoccupations of the philosophes… a new salience for our time. 

**FOURTH—Enlightenment values are key to progressive change – the affirmative prevents us from improving the world.** 
Stephen Eric **Bronner**, Distinguished Professor of Political Science and a Member of the Graduate Faculty in Comparative Literature and German Studies at Rutgers University, **2004** (//Reclaiming the Enlightenment: Toward a Politics of Radical Engagement//, Published by Columbia University Press, ISBN 9780231126090, p. 167) 
The Enlightenment was a movement… person wishes to see. 

**The alternative is to vote negative to endorse Enlightenment values and engage in the political sphere. This is mutually exclusive with the affirmative – it presents an opportunity cost to the affirmative’s philosophical approach to politics and the status quo. The alternative is a superior option:** 
**FIRST—the Enlightenment has been the driving force behind history’s greatest triumphs – it remains the crucial foundation for strategies to reduce global suffering.** 
Stephen Eric **Bronner**, Distinguished Professor of Political Science and a Member of the Graduate Faculty in Comparative Literature and German Studies at Rutgers University, **2004** (//Reclaiming the Enlightenment: Toward a Politics of Radical Engagement//, Published by Columbia University Press, ISBN 9780231126090, p. 158-159) 
The Enlightenment has always been… suffered most at its hands. 

**SECOND—the decision to engage politics is a prior question – the content of that engagement is secondary.** 
Stephen Eric **Bronner**, Distinguished Professor of Political Science and a Member of the Graduate Faculty in Comparative Literature and German Studies at Rutgers University, **2004** (//Reclaiming the Enlightenment: Toward a Politics of Radical Engagement//, Published by Columbia University Press, ISBN 9780231126090, p. x) 
Enlightenment intellectuals may have… become a secondary concern. 

**FINALLY—embracing Enlightenment values is vital to the improvement of lives – political engagement is key.** 
Stephen Eric **Bronner**, Distinguished Professor of Political Science and a Member of the Graduate Faculty in Comparative Literature and German Studies at Rutgers University, **2004** (//Reclaiming the Enlightenment: Toward a Politics of Radical Engagement//, Published by Columbia University Press, ISBN 9780231126090, p. ix) 
What follows is an attempt…"changing the world" in one fell swoop. 

==<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">South Korean Prostitution Negative</span>== 
===Framework=== 

**Changing representational practices hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and material structures**
**Tuathail, 96** (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct) 
While theoretical debates… that is human history. 

**Policy implications are necessary to test theory—a legitimate alternative must describe the consequences of implementing specific change because rhetorical criticism can make the world worse—the impact is education and it turns the case**
**FEAVER, 01** (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 178) 
At the same time, virtually proliferation field already does so.

===Structural Violence Frontline=== 

**Direct violence outweighs structural violence**
**Maley 85** (William, The University of New South Wales at Duntroon, “Peace, Needs and Utopia”, Political Studies, XXXIIl, 578-591, Political Studies) CH 
The difficulties in Galtung's… evaluate a social order.

===Racism Frontline=== 

**Racism should be weighed alongside other consequences**
**Barndt 07** (Joseph, director of Crossroads, a ministry to dismantle racism, “Understanding and Dismantling Racism”, p 10) 
While dealing with the subject… separately analyzed and addressed. 

**Single decisions for institutional change only mask racism**
**Barndt 07** (Joseph, director of Crossroads, a ministry to dismantle racism, “Understanding and Dismantling Racism”, p 231) 
Just as "nonracism" is impossible… for the original disease.

===Intersectional Abuse Frontline=== 
**Gender is not the root cause of war—war causes gender oppression and other structural violence**
**Goldstein, 02** (Joshua S., Professor Emeritus of International Relations, American University (Washington, DC) Research Scholar, University of Massachusetts and Nonresident Sadat Senior Fellow, CIDCM, University of Maryland, War and Gender , P. 412 2k2) 
First, peace activists face…to be empirically inadequate. 

**When the choice is between two evils, policymakers should weigh consequences and opt for the lesser of the two – that is the only morally defensible choice.**
Kai **Nielsen**, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Calgary, **1996** (“There Is No Dilemma Of Dirty Hands,” South African Journal of Philosophy, Volume 15, Issue 1, February, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Academic Search Elite) 
I shall take an austere line… dilemma out of it as well. 

**Government policymakers must consider consequences – even if deontological morality is good for individuals, states are in a unique position where consequences matter.**
Joseph S. **Nye**, Jr., Ford Foundation Professor of Security Affairs at Harvard University, Director of the Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, former Deputy to the Undersecretary of State For Security Assistance, **1986** (Nuclear Ethics, Published by Free Press, ISBN 0029230918, p. 32-34) 
The third approach stresses… stage in human history.

==Japan BMD Negative== 
===China Frontline=== 

**China is modernizing now—the impact is non-unique**. 
Winny **Chen**, Policy Analyst and Manager of China Studies for the National Security and International Policy Team at the Center for American Progress, holds an M.A. in Security Studies from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, **11-09**-2010 (“Ties that Bind,” Center for American Progress, November 9th, Available Online at http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/11/ties_that_bind.html, Accessed 11-19-2010) 
How the political developments…Department of Defense report. 

**The U.S. is pursuing a Chinese containment strategy in the status quo—even if the plan removes one tactic used in that strategy, it doesn’t remove the strategy itself.** 
Oh **Young-hwan**, editor of foreign policy and security affairs at the JoongAng Ilbo—one of the three largest newspapers in South Korea, **11-19**-2010 (“The U.S. confronts China,” Korea JoongAng Daily, November 19th, Available Online at http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2928569, Accessed 11-19-2010) 
The primary focus of U.S. foreign policy… Indonesia, South Korea and Japan.


===Europe Frontline=== 

**NATO greenlighted a continent-wide missile defense system at the Lisbon Summit—this advantage is terminally non-unique.** 
**Voice of America News, 11-19**-2010 (“NATO Approves Europe Missile Defense Plan,” Byline Kent Klein, November 19th, Available Online at http://www.voanews.com/english/news/NATO-Hoping-To-Press-Reset-And-START-With-Russia--109198004.html, Accessed 11-19-2010) 
Leaders of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization… to cooperate on the project. 

**No chance of resource wars** 
**Bennett and Nordstrom, 2K** – Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State (D. Scott Bennett and Timothy Nordstrom, February 2000.. "Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries," Journal of Conflict Resolution, Ebsco) 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">In this analysis, we focus… to pay for a rivalry.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Solvency Frontline</span>=== 

**The plan does nothing—Japan co-develops the SM-3 Block 2 with the United States—they are equal partners—the plan just means Japan and the U.S. continue development independently.** 
Riki **Ellison**, President and Founder of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance, **2009** (“Japan Tests Missile Defense and Intercepts Ballistic Missile in Hawaii,” PR Newswire, October 28th, Available Online at http://bionicbong.com/japan/only-in-japan/tech/japan-test-missile-defense-intercepts-ballistic-missile-hawaii-test/, Accessed 11-17-2010) 
This also marks the first… nation against Iran by 2020. 

**The plan does not prevent private sector cooperation—that’s where the action is in the status quo.** 
Rick **Rozoff**, author and geopolitical analyst, editor of Stop NATO and a frequent contributor to Global Research, **11-04**-2010 (“U.S. Supports Japan, Confronts China And Russia Over Island Disputes,” Eurasia Review, November 4th, Available Online at http://www.eurasiareview.com/201011049455/us-supports-japan-confronts-china-and-russia-over-island-disputes.html, Accessed 11-17-2010) 
In September the Missile Defense Agency… defense against sophisticated threats." [20] 


==Afghanistan Drones Negative== 
===Stability Frontline=== 

**Grant the aff ZERO solvency – withdrawing drones can’t solve terrorism and are more likely to feed the jihad – multiple reasons – only incorporating drones into the COIN strategy can solve – empirics** 
**Zenko, 10** [Micah Zenko is a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations' Center for Preventive Action, recently published Between Threats and War: U.S. Discrete Military Operations in the Post-Cold War World, New York Daily News, “Why Drones Are Overrated,” September 29, 2010, http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2010/09/29/2010-09-29_why_drones_are_overrated_they_kill_terrorist_leaders__but_leave_terrorist_networ.html] 
Over the past three weeks… prove to be a Pyrrhic victory. 

**No risk of India-Pakistan war – military deterrence is irrelevant** 
**Karnad, 05** – Research Professor in National Security Studies at the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi (Bharat, April 2005, India Review, “South Asia: The Irrelevance of Classical Nuclear Deterrence Theory,” p. 173-174) 
Deterrence theory can, perhaps… the two South Asian states. 

===China Frontline=== 

**CCP collapse inevitable – all other communist regimes have been spurned** 
**The Epoch Times 12/01** (“Nine Commentaries on the Communist Party”, http://en.epochtimes.com/news/8-12-1/24696.html) 
More than a decade… humanity for over a century. 

**The CCP won’t strike the U.S. – wants to pursue development** 
**Lieber, 05** – Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown University (Robert J., 2005, “The American Era: Power and Strategy for the 21st Century”, p. 171) 
Despite the muscle flexing directed… relations with the United States. 33


===Terrorism Frontline=== 

**CCP collapse inevitable – all other communist regimes have been spurned** 
**The Epoch Times 12/01** (“Nine Commentaries on the Communist Party”, http://en.epochtimes.com/news/8-12-1/24696.html) 
More than a decade… humanity for over a century. 

**The CCP won’t strike the U.S. – wants to pursue development** 
**Lieber, 05** – Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown University (Robert J., 2005, “The American Era: Power and Strategy for the 21st Century”, p. 171) 
Despite the muscle flexing directed… relations with the United States. 33


==Beacon Negative== 
===Framework=== 

**Gotta have a plan—failure to have a concrete option we can debate against guarantees that oppression continues and efforts for change backfire** 
STEVE **20**07 <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Anonymous member of Black Block and Active Transformation who lives in East Lansing, MI, Date Last Mod. Feb 8, http://www.nadir.org/nadir/initiativ/agp/free/global/a16dcdiscussion.htm)</span>
What follows is not an attempt… the state or a new state. 

**Vote Negative:** 
**A. Fairness – there are an infinite number of frameworks that the neg can’t predict which rigs the game in favor of the aff** 
**MEARSHEIMER** 19**95** (John, Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Winter 94/95) 
Nevertheless, critical theorists readily… politics will be more peaceful. 

**B. Policy implications are necessary to test theory—a legitimate plan must describe the consequences of implementing specific change because rhetorical criticism can make the world worse—the impact is education and it turns the case** 
**FEAVER 2001** (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 178) 
At the same time, virtually all good theory… proliferation field already does so. 

**C. War - Ignore their generic evidence—detailed military education prevents war** 
**HANSON** 20**07** (Victor Davis Hanson, Professor of Classics at CSU Fullerton, “Why Study War?” City Journal, Summer) 
It’s no surprise that civilian Americans… have a moral obligation to stop them. 

**Debate should be an academic exercise where the Affirmative plays the role of the federal government and the Negative negates this plan in any way they choose. This creates a competitive space to imagine new ideas and translate them into practical suggestions—playing devil’s advocate challenges the status quo and results in emancipatory change** 
**ANDREWS** 20**06** (Peter, Consulting Faculty Member at the IBM Executive Business Institute in Palisades, New York, Executive Technology Report, August, www-935.ibm.com/services/us/bcs/pdf/g510-6313-etr-unlearn-to-innovate.pdf) 
High stakes innovation requires… of a new idea or approach). 

**First, switch-side debate—only our interpretation guarantees that we take positions that we don’t agree with to facilitate debate on both sides. This promotes deliberation that’s key to prevent extinction** 
**STANNARD 2006** <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Matt, Department of Communication and Journalism, University of Wyoming, Spring 2006 Faculty Senate Speaker Series Speech, April 18, http://theunderview.blogspot.com/2006/04/deliberation-democracy-and-debate.html)</span>
The complexity and interdependence… to resist this colonization. 

**Second, policy relevance—Role playing is the best way to promote critical policy analysis and well-informed students** 
**SCHAAP 2005** <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Andrew, University of Melbourne, Politics, Vol 25 Iss 1, February)</span>
Learning political theory is… the subject: their teacher. 

**Third, democracy—only debates about the details of military operations solve our education arguments—this is critical to functioning democracy that reigns in military excess** 
**Kagan 2006** (Fred, Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, “Why Military History Matters,” June, http://www.aei.org/outlook/24600) 
Attentive readers might well… about the study of war. 

**Fourth, it turns the Aff—failure to play Devil’s advocate undermines persuasion and there’s no offense because it doesn’t cause role confusion** 
**Luckhardt and Bechtel 1994** <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(C. Grant and William, </span>How to do Things with Logic<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, p 179)</span>
This diagram indicates that… one you have presented.


==Tournament Intel== 
===Glenbrooks=== 
====Round 2 vs. Coppell ME==== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">1AC: South Korean Prostitution</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">1NC: ASPEC, Deterrence DA, Congress CP, Case</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">2NC: ASPEC, Case</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">1NR: Deterrence DA</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">2NR: Deterrence DA, Case</span>


====<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Round 3 vs. Heritage Hall HS</span>==== 
1AC: Japan BMD
1NC: T, K, US-Japan Alliance DA, Case
2NC: DA, Case
1NR: T
2NR: DA, Case

====Round 6 vs. Hawken DB==== 
1AC: Afghanistan Drones
1NC: T, Congress CP, US-India Relations, Case
2NC: CP, Case
1NR: T
2NR: T

====Round 7 vs. Beacon DF==== 
1NC: K, Framework
2NC: K
1NR: Framework
2NR: Framework