[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


**Contention 1: Times Have Changed**

**Withdrawal from Okinawa recognizes US deployment on Okinawa, the imbalanced alliance, and violence against women as uniquely ingrained in gendered and securitized discourses. Our advocacy is a recognition and a solution.**

**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kirk &Feffer 8</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">[Gwyn Kirk, policy and research analyst with the Global Fund for Women and a Foreign Policy In Focus columnist. John Feffer, author of several books and numerous articles. He has been a Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC and a PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University. He is a former associate editor of World Policy Journal. He has worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee. He has studied in England and Russia, lived in Poland and Japan, and traveled widely throughout Europe and Asia. He has taught a graduate level course on international conflict at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul in July 2001 and delivered lectures at a variety of academic institutions including New York University, Hofstra, Union College, Cornell University, and Sofia University, March 14, "Gender And U.S. Bases in Asia Pacific", http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific] </span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The power dynamics of militarism …them and to act</span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> accordingly. </span>


**Recent elections hurt Kan and the leading party because of backlash over Okinawa - the military presence in Japan precludes Kan<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">’</span>s foreign policy and any cooperation.**

**<span class="tagChar">Tatsumi 7-27 </span>**(Yuki Tatsumi, was special assistant for political affairs US embassy in Japan, Senior Associate of the East Asia Program at the Henry L. Stimson Center, adjunct fellow Center for Strategic and International Studies. Center for Strategic and International Studies 7-27-10 “Japan's Drift and its Implications for the US-Japan Alliance” http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Current-Affairs/Security-Watch/Detail/?lng=en&id=119345)

<span class="underline0">The poor election result</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span class="underline0">… </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">US, and the entire international community.</span>


**The US and Japan are in the midst of an alliance transformation, but Okinawan opposition to bases will sink the boat.**

**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hayahshi 11/2</span></span>** (Yuka Hayashi, Staff Writer, Wall Street Journal “Okinawa Vote Complicates U.S.-Japan Ties” <http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704141104575587942224837482.html>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NAHA, Japan—</span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The twists and … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to Japan in mid-November. </span>


**Presence in Okinawa is the biggest obstacle in the alliance.**

**<span class="tagChar">CRS 09 </span>**Congressional Research Service Emma Chanlett-Avery, an Analyst in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade division of CRS and Weston S. Konishi Analyst in Asian Affairs, CRS. “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests” 7-23-09

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Okinawa as Focus of Realignment … </span>the Guam relocation plans by 2014.


**But ground troops aren<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">’</span>t key to leadership <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> balanced alliance, Seventh fleet and Air Force solve deterrence.**

**<span class="tagChar">Rapp 04</span>** (William E. Rapp, Brigadier General William E. Rapp graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University. “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Focusing narrowly on East Asia, … </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">of the U.S. in East Asia.</span></span>


**Policy which focuses on individual bases and privileges US security interests locks the alliance into the failing cold-war framework. Only a broad solution can fracture bureaucratic inertia and reshape the alliance.**

**<span class="tagChar">Jitsuro 8-9</span>** (TerashimaJitsuro, Foreign policy advisor to Prime Minister Hatoyama, chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of the Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute. 8-9-10 “The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure, and the Future”)

<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In the raging currents of … postwar era will never end. </span></span>


**Now is key for the case <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> new election provides opportunity for a reset.**

**<span class="tagChar">Foster and Kanak 9/15</span>/10** (New York Times. Jim Foster,a former State Department official, is vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan. Don Kanakis a former president and chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan. “A Reset in Japan-U.S. Relations?” http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/16/opinion/16iht-edfoster.html?_r=1)

<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Life rarely gives chances for a… Asia and America will benefit. </span></span>

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should withdraw the United States military presence from Okinawa.**


**Contention 2 is Balanced Relations**

**The alliance must respond to the Japanese desire for an equal role. Japan can rise within the alliance without aggressive expansion and bilateral diplomacy checks foreign worries and promotes stability.**

**<span class="tagChar">Rapp 04</span>** (William E. Rapp, Brigadier General William E. Rapp graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University. “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It appears clear that </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Japan … and deepened U.S.-Japan security alliance. </span></span>


**US <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> Japan relations aid regional negotiations <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> Proliferation Security Initiative proves.**

**<span class="tagChar">Rapp 04</span>** (William E. Rapp, Brigadier General William E. Rapp graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University. “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as the United States … and institutions in the region.</span> </span>


**Japan is comparatively better than US unilateralism at creating Asian stability.**

**<span class="tagChar">Rapp 04</span>** (William E. Rapp, Brigadier General William E. Rapp graduated from the United States Military Academy (USMA) in 1984 and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers, Ph.D. in international relations Stanford University. “Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, as the partnership deepens, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">… </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">future security environment of Asia. </span>


**A healthy cooperation prevents multiple nuclear wars <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> Asia is the most likely hotspot.**

<span class="tagChar">**Armitage et al. 2K** (</span>Richard L. Armitage Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. 2k, fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Asia, in the throes of … foundation for the 21st century. </span>


**Scenario 2 is Democracy:**

**On Okinawa base issues, Japan uses the federal executive, legislative, and judicial branches to subordinate individual and state rights, critically undermining democracy.**

**<span class="tagChar">Mulgan 2K </span>**Aurelia Mulgan, PhD in Japanese Politics, Australia National University, 2K “Managing the US Base Issue in Okinawa: A Test for Japanese Democracy” http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/713683781, WBTA

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The domestic politics of US … </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">residents on base-related issues. </span></span>


**The DPJ just brought Japan to a two party system but US troops will reverse progress**

**<span class="tagChar">Buruma 8-6 </span>**(Ian Buruma, Professor of Democracy and Human Rights at Bard College, 08-06-10 “Japan’s Unfinished Reformation” http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/buruma40/English)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">TOKYO – Revolutions, it is often …</span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">efforts to strengthen its democracy. </span></span>


**Strong Japanese democracy checks global democratic backslide.**

**<span class="tagChar">Auslin 10/5/10</span>** (Michael Auslin is director of Japan studies at the American Enterprise Institute. “National Review: The Future Of Asian Democracies” <http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130345782>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the other end of … </span><span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">shape the 21st, as well.</span></span>


**Multilateral democratic institution building makes existing efforts successful and ends violent failures. The alternative is nuclear war.**

<span class="tagChar">**Shaw 99**</span>(Martin Shaw, IR Professor at Sussex, 11-9-99 “The unfinished global revolution: Intellectuals and the new politics of international relations.”)

<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">From these political fundamentals, strategic … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">relations and politics, are intertwined. </span>


**Democracies don<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">’</span>t fight each other <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> best for long term stability**

**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lynn- Jones </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">’</span></span>**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">**98**</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sean, Center for … </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">] </span>

In addition to improving the … the democratic "zone of peace."



=Negative= 

**USC Round 1 vs. Bingham**
The Aff was Japan Fem/Imperialism
1NC: Alliance CP and Futenma PIC, Alliance DA, Natural Gas Politics, Okinawa Identity K, Case
2NR: Okinawa Identity K

**USC Round 6 vs. Damien**
Affirmative: South Korea Ground Troops Withdrawal with Regionalism and Denuclearization
1NC: Security K, Natural Gas Politics, Joint Military Exercises CP, Deterrence DA, Case
2NR: CP, Deterrence, Case

**USC Doubles vs. West High School**
Affirmative: South Korea Ground Troops Withdrawal with Regionalism, Nuclear Arms trade, and Korean War (CBW)
1NC: Deterrence DA, Joint Military Exercises CP, Natural Gas Politics DA, case
2NR: CP, Deterrence, Case
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]