[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">A nuclear weapons is a weapon of mass destruction whose explosive power derives from a nuclear reaction.
Ought not indicates a moral prohibition
Value: Morality
The nature of states necessitates that obligations be justified according to what would be rational as a contractual agreement.
Applbaum, Arthur (Professor of Ethics and Public Policy at Harvard University). Ethics for Adversaries: The Morality of Roles in Public and Professional Life. (2000): p. 155
[Can the notion ... treatment remains deceptive.]
Rational contractarianism is the only way of generating morally legitimate principles, since its ethical force is based on the fact that they are rational to endorse.
Gauthier, David (Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh). Morals by Agreement. (1986).
[A contractarian theory ... morally neutral, base.]
In the case of nuclear weapons policy, reasoning in terms of probabilities is essentially arbitrary.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[The upshot is ... so much at stake.]
Reasoning to the exclusion of consequences is irrational in the case of nuclear strategy because of the nature of the consequences under consideration.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Little need be ... number of perspectives.]
The only rational alternative to reasoning from probability or from disregarding consequences altogether is possibilistic reasoning.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Under this perhaps ... be powerfully reinforcing.]
Refusal to possess nuclear weapons is the only way to produce the necessary modal shifts rendering nuclear catastrophe impossible.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[The second category ... on these grounds.]
Even disarmament by a single actor renders full-scale nuclear exchanges impossible, therefore creating modal limits on the range of devastation possible because of nuclear weapons.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Notice, second, that ... few nuclear devices.]
With more nuclear weapons, it becomes harder to maintain control of control systems, creating a modal shift towards the direction of nuclear catastrophe.
Stegenga, James (Professor of Political Science at Purdue University). “Nuclear Deterrence: Bankrupt Ideology.”Policy Sciences 16.2 (November 1983): p. 127-145.
[Social science and ... the Soviet machinery.]
Nuclear security requires strict civilian control, such as both the US and the Soviet Union had during the Cold War. But, new proliferators lack civilian oversight.
Sagan, Scott (Professor of Political Science at Stanford University). “The Perils of Proliferation.” International Security 18.4 (Spring 1994): p. 66-107.
[First, I argue ... than later’ logic.]
The risks of nuclear weapons are greater by orders of magnitude than the harms of even major conventional wars.
Toon, Brian (Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Studies at the University of Colorado). "New Studies Show Regional Nuclear War Would Trigger Mass Death, Devastating Climate Change." University of Colorado News Online Release, 11 November 2006.
[Even small-scale regional ... produce, he said.]</span>
==Negative== 
Round 1:
The resolution limits the scope of the resolution to a question of property rights and ownership.
Respect of property rights requires a means-based theory of negative rights.
Ripstein, Arthur (Professor of Law and Philosophy at the University of Toronto). Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political Philosophy. 2009: p. 91.
[The nature of ... with your purposiveness.]
The aggregative nature of the state contextualizes what constitutes legitimate state property.
Ripstein, Arthur (Professor of Law and Philosophy at the University of Toronto). Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political Philosophy. 2009: p. 228-229.
[The absence of ... peace among nations.]
Attempts to possess nuclear weapons are legitimate expressions of initial claims to state territory because improving the condition of property or attempting to acquire new property does not change the moral status of already legitimate property used in that process.
Ripstein, Arthur (Professor of Law and Philosophy at the University of Toronto). Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political Philosophy. 2009: p. 98-99.
[The second difficulty ... conduct of others.]
On case:
Permissibility is sufficient to refute an "ought not" statement.
Robinson, Richard. "Ought and Ought Not." Philosophy 46.177 (July 1971): p. 193-202
[Ought and ought ... both be false.]



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]