[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
A nuclear weapons is a weapon of mass destruction whose explosive power derives from a nuclear reaction.
Ought not indicates a moral prohibition
Value: Morality
The nature of states necessitates that obligations be justified according to what would be rational as a contractual agreement.
Applbaum, Arthur (Professor of Ethics and Public Policy at Harvard University). Ethics for Adversaries: The Morality of Roles in Public and Professional Life. (2000): p. 155
[Can the notion ... treatment remains deceptive.]
Rational contractarianism is the only way of generating morally legitimate principles, since its ethical force is based on the fact that they are rational to endorse.
Gauthier, David (Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh). Morals by Agreement. (1986).
[A contractarian theory ... morally neutral, base.]
In the case of nuclear weapons policy, reasoning in terms of probabilities is essentially arbitrary.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[The upshot is ... so much at stake.]
Reasoning to the exclusion of consequences is irrational in the case of nuclear strategy because of the nature of the consequences under consideration.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Little need be ... number of perspectives.]
The only rational alternative to reasoning from probability or from disregarding consequences altogether is possibilistic reasoning.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Under this perhaps ... be powerfully reinforcing.]
Refusal to possess nuclear weapons is the only way to produce the necessary modal shifts rendering nuclear catastrophe impossible.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[The second category ... on these grounds.]
Even disarmament by a single actor renders full-scale nuclear exchanges impossible, therefore creating modal limits on the range of devastation possible because of nuclear weapons.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Notice, second, that ... few nuclear devices.]
With more nuclear weapons, it becomes harder to maintain control of control systems, creating a modal shift towards the direction of nuclear catastrophe.
Stegenga, James (Professor of Political Science at Purdue University). “Nuclear Deterrence: Bankrupt Ideology.”Policy Sciences 16.2 (November 1983): p. 127-145.
[Social science and ... the Soviet machinery.]
Nuclear security requires strict civilian control, such as both the US and the Soviet Union had during the Cold War. But, new proliferators lack civilian oversight.
Sagan, Scott (Professor of Political Science at Stanford University). “The Perils of Proliferation.” International Security 18.4 (Spring 1994): p. 66-107.
[First, I argue ... than later’ logic.]
The risks of nuclear weapons are greater by orders of magnitude than the harms of even major conventional wars.
Toon, Brian (Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Studies at the University of Colorado). "New Studies Show Regional Nuclear War Would Trigger Mass Death, Devastating Climate Change." University of Colorado News Online Release, 11 November 2006.
[Even small-scale regional ... produce, he said.]
==Negative== 


<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Self-Defense  </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Value: Morality, contextualized to state obligations </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Negative Burden: Permissibility </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">The state operates on a level designed to synthesize and weigh between conflicting individual obligations and desires. </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Woller, Gary (Professor of Public Management at Brigham Young University). "A Forum on the Role of Environmental Ethics in Restructuring Environmental Policy and Law for the Next Century." Policy Currents 7.2 (June 1997): p. 10-11. </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">[Moreover, virtually all ... in a democracy.] </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">States assert their sovereignty through an implied contractual agreement with their constituents, translating into state obligations. </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Walzer, Michael (Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University). Just and Unjust Wars: A Moral Argument With Historical Illusions. (2000): p. 55. </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">[It might also ... of disputed territory.] </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Standard: States' right to perceptual self-defense (summarized analysis/burden structure) </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Contention: State possession of nuclear weapons is a legitimate option in the pursuit of self-defense. </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Individual states facing major security dilemmas possess a strong incentive to proliferate. </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">Gartzke, Erik (Department of Political Science at University of California, San Diego) and Dong-Joon Jo (Department of International Relations at the University of Seoul). "Bargaining, Nuclear Proliferation, and Interstate Disputes)." Journal of Conflict Resolution 53.2 (April 2009): p. 209-233. </span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 10pt;">[If proliferation is ... the Cold War?] </span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]