[[toc]]
cite requests: [[mailto:whatcanbrowndoforyouu@gmail.com|whatcanbrowndoforyouu@gmail.com]]





=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
===Texas - Japan 1AC=== 

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce the United States’ military presence from Japan by reducing the United States’ military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.**

**Contention 1 is Inherency**

**Alliance collapse inevitable – grass root movements and politics**
Michael **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Auslin</span>__**, Director of Japan Studies at American Enterprise Institute, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">6/16</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">/</span>10, " The Real Futenma Fallout ", http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704324304575307471399789704.html?mod=WSJ_Opinion_LEFTTopBucket
A great sigh of relief erupted ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">paralysis in Japan's national security establishment.</span>

**Japanese leaders are shifting towards an increasingly anti US stance—drawdown of forces is key to appease them and maintain the security alliance**
Kenneth B. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Pyle,</span>__** Professor of History and Asian Studies at the University of Washington, “Troubled Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue 10, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">7/10 </span>__**2010, http://asiapolicy.nbr.org
Japan and the United States are ...this domination has shaped Japanese behavior.

**Contention 2 is Japanese Nuclearization**

**Current US security assurances are the only thing stopping military nuclearization—collapse of the alliance removes that guarantee**
Emma **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Chanlett-Avery</span>__**, specialist in Asian Affairs, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and</span>__** Mary Beth **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Nikitin</span>__**, analyst in Nonproliferation, 2/19/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">09</span>__**, Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests”, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf {jchen}
Perhaps <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the </span>single <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">most important factor</span> ...of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Japan developing its own deterrence</span>.

**The trend is towards nuclearization now—maintenance of old alliance isn’t enough, IMPROVED relations key**
Yuan **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Chong</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span> Assistant Research Professor, Institute of Japan Studies, China Institutes of Contemporary International Relations, “East Asian Integration and Japan’s Regional Policy”, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">8/30</span>__**/10, The Japan Forum on International Relations, Research Fellow Paper No. 16, http://www.jfir.or.jp/e/publication/pdf/100831.pdf{jchen}
For Japan, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the security assurance ...</span>a common vision of regional cooperation.

**Japanese nuclearization causes international sanctions on uranium, crushing the civilian nuclear program**
Emma **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Chanlett-Avery</span>__**, specialist in Asian Affairs, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and</span>__** Mary Beth **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Nikitin</span>__**, analyst in Nonproliferation, 2/19/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">09</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span> Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests”, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf {jchen}
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Consequences for Civilian Nuclear Program Lacking</span> ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">off of nuclear-related supply</span>.

**Japanese nuclear industry key to global modeling and transition—tech innovation and assistance to developing countries**
Yukiya **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Amano</span>__**, IAEA Director General, 4/21/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>__**, International Atomic Energy Agency, “ Statement to 43rd Annual Conference of Japan Atomic Industrial Forum”, http://www.iaea.org/NewsCenter/Statements/2010/amsp2010n008.html {jchen}
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Nuclear power is enjoying growing acceptance</span> ...Monju prototype fast reactor before long.

**Only a global transition to nuclear energy solves warming—cutting emissions or switch to alternative energy fails**
James **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Lovelock</span>__**, creator of Gaia hypothesis (Earth is self-regulating organism) and member of EFN (Association of Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy), 5-24-**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">04</span>__**, The Independent, “Nuclear Power is the Only Green Solution,” http://www.independent.co.uk/opinion/commentators/james-lovelock-nuclear-power-is-the-only-green-solution-564446.html
Sir David King, the Government's ...be inflicted by our outraged planet.

**And, we’re nearing the point of no return—holding the line on current emissions while transitioning to nuclear power key to check feedback cycles**
David **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Biello</span>__**, award winning journalist and associate editor for Scientific American, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">9/9</span>__**/10, Scientific American, “How Much Global Warming Is Guaranteed Even If We Stopped Building Coal-Fired Plants Today?”, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=guaranteed-global-warming-with-existing-fossil-fuel-infrastructure{jchen}
Humanity has yet to reach the ...perhaps 30 [terawatts] by 2050."

**We’re on the brink of runaway warming—that causes extinction**
Oliver **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Tickell</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> environmental researcher, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span>__**, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange
We need to get prepared for ...us towards a similar hothouse Earth.

**Overwhelming scientific consensus proves warming is real and anthropogenic**
Stefan **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Rahmstorf</span>__**, Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span>__** (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49
It is time to turn to ...with which we need to deal.

**Even if we don’t win rapid warming, slight temperature increases cause methane burps which cause extinction**
John **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Atcheson</span>__**, geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies, “Ticking Time Bomb,” Baltimore Sun, December 15, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">04</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> http://www.commondreams.org/views04/1215-24.htm
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">There are </span>enormous quantities of naturally ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">. We have to act now.</span>

**Even 1% risk justifies action – the consequences are too big**
Robert **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Storm</span>__**, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">07</span>__**, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246
Keep in mind that the current ...The time for action is now.

**Contention 3 is Yes we Kan**

**Japan will agree to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership now, but Kan’s credibility is on the brink.**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">WSJ</span>__**__,__ written by Takashi Nakamichi, “UPDATE: Japan Says APEC Backs Its Free Trade Push, But Domestic Issues Loom
.”, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">11/11</span>__**/10, http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20101111-705336.html [kayleigh]
YOKOHAMA, Japan (Dow Jones...its pro-free trade rhetoric.

**Moving bases will satisfy the public, key to Kan**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Japan Times</span>__**, “Kan given low score for weekend”, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">11/16</span>__**/10, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20101116a3.html [kayleigh]
A recent Kyodo News survey ...ties between Tokyo and Beijing soured.

**TTP key to the Japanese economy**
Clayton **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Yeutter</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> former U.S. trade representative and secretary of agriculture, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">and</span>__** Warren **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Maruyama</span>__**, former general counsel for the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, writers for WSJ, “Japan at a Trade Crossroads”, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">11/22</span>__**/10, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704243904575629912190935390.html [kayleigh]
After nearly two decades of economic ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">make the world a safer place.</span>

**Japanese economic crisis triggers global collapse**
Alan P. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Weiss</span>__**, president of Regent Wealth Management Group 12/7/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">09</span>__**, New Haven Register “Japan’s deflation could have global ripple effect” http://www.nhregister.com/articles/2009/12/27/business/f2-weiss27.txt
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">JAPAN has the second-largest ...</span>a stronger and healthier economy tomorrow.

**That causes conflict – war over resources and violent power shifts**
Jedediah **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Royal</span>__**, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">10</span>__**, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215 vkoneru
Less intuitive is how periods of ...be considered ancillary to those views.

**Those conflicts go nuclear**
Sean **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">O’Donnell</span>__** Staff Writer, Baltimore Examiner, B.A. in History from the University of Maryland 2/26/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">09</span>__**, Will this recession lead to World War II, http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III
Could <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the current economic crisis affecting ...</span>. However <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">sometimes history repeats itself</span>.

**Successful Transpacific Pact creates an Asian free trade zone – that’s key to global trade liberalization and free trade**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Reuters</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span> Yoko Kubota and Yoko Nishikawa, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">11/10</span>__**/10, “APEC seeks to build vast free trade area”, http://www.newsdaily.com/stories/tre6a927h-us-apec/# {jchen}
YOKOHAMA, Japan (Reuters) .... APEC leaders meet on November 13-14.

**Free trade solves extinction**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Copley News Service</span>__** December 1, 19**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">99</span>__**
For decades, many children in ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">wealthy Japan made a rethink unnecessary.</span>
Contention 4 is Regionalism

**Contention 4 is Regionalism**

**Removing troops is key to Japan to taking an active role in regional security**
Richard **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Cronin</span>__**, director of the Southeast Asia program at the Stimson Center, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">05</span>__** The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs Vol. 29 No. 1
The U.S. Defense ...it expects Japan to do so.

**East Asian regionalism solves every known impact by wide economic and political cooperation**
Jusuf **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Wunadi 8</span>__** "East Asian Regionalism and Global Governance," East Asia at a Crossroads; (eds. Tokyo: Japan Center for International Exchange, 2008, pp. 19-37
In the longer term, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">if ...</span>members are newcomers to the role.

East Asia without regionalism is the most probable scenario for nuclear war
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Ikenberry</span>__,** Professor of Geopolitics at the University of Georgetown **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and Mastanduno</span>__**, Professor of Government at Dartmouth College, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">03</span>__** INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS THEORY AND THE ASIA PACIFIC, PAGE 25-26
Many scholars and analysts argue ...region appear threatening for Chinese security.

**Contention 5 is Solvency**

**Current US policy has made military deployment obsolete—bases in Japan no longer hold any deterrence value**
Terashima **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Jitsuro,</span>__** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">10</span>__** Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve
At the time of the regime ...Japanese strategic thinking will loom important.

**Alliance collapse inevitable – Futenma only highlighted the issue of broader opposition to US bases in Japan**
Terashima **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Jitsuro,</span>__** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">8/20</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">/</span>10 Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve
But history is harsh. Hatoyama ...the present state of the bases.



===Memorial - Bank of Japan Advantage (Rd. 1 vs Kinkaid DR)=== 
**Kan’s agenda is on the brink – winning the Okinawa issue restores his credibility—spun as responsive to citizen demands**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Kyodo News 7/11</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">/</span>2010,“Stability, unity key to Kan’s success: expert,” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100611f2.html
WASHINGTON — Ensuring <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">stability</span> and unity...we look forward," she said.

**Stronger political backing key to pressure the Bank of Japan on yen intervention—that solves the inflation crisis and spurs growth**
Tobias **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Harris</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> analyst of Japanese politics and foreign policy A Ph.D. student in political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology “Kan starts anew” **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">9/23</span>__**/10 http://asiasecurity.macfound.org/blog/entry/111kan_starts_anew/ JL
Kan spent his time on the ...low every prime minister since Koizumi.

**Japanese economic crisis triggers global collapse**
Alan P. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Weiss</span>__**, president of Regent Wealth Management Group 12/7/**__09__**, New Haven Register “Japan’s deflation could have global ripple effect” http://www.nhregister.com/articles/2009/12/27/business/f2-weiss27.txt
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">JAPAN has the second-largest ...</span>a stronger and healthier economy tomorrow.

**That causes nuclear war**
Walter Russell **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Mead</span>__**, Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy Studies @ Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, 2-4-**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">09</span>__**, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=1
The greatest danger both to U...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">we may</span> still <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">have to fight.</span>


===Grapevine - Japan 1AC=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce the United States’ military presence from Japan by reducing the United States’ military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.**

**Contention 1 is the US-Japan Alliance**

**Alliance collapse inevitable in the status quo—grass roots movements and politics**
Michael **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Auslin</span>__**, Director of Japan Studies at American Enterprise Institute, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">6/16/</span>__**10, " The Real Futenma Fallout ", http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704324304575307471399789704.html?mod=WSJ_Opinion_LEFTTopBucket
A great sigh of relief erupted ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">paralysis in Japan's national security establishment.</span>

**Removal of bases shifts focus toward economic and security cooperation—this is the ONLY scenario for a sustainable alliance that preserves East Asian stability**
Terashima **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Jitsuro,</span>__** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">10</span>__** Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve
What Should Be Done-Demand ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">into something truly deserving of trust.</span>

**Japanese leaders are shifting towards an increasingly anti US stance—drawdown of forces is key to appease them and maintain the security alliance**
Kenneth B. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Pyle,</span>__** Professor of History and Asian Studies at the University of Washington, “Troubled Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue 10,**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> 7/10</span>__** 2010, http://asiapolicy.nbr.org
Japan and the United States are ...this domination has shaped Japanese behavior.

**Scenario 1 is Japanese Rearmament**

**Maintaining the alliance prevents Japanese rearmament**
John **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ikenberry</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">.</span> professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice at Georgetown, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span>__** (Beyond Bilateralism: US-Japan Relations in the New Asia-Pacific, Ed. Krauss and Pempel)
The alliance system—and the ...China shared with the United States.

**Even perception of Japanese weaponization sets off an Asian arms race**
Christopher W **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Hughes,</span> PhD__** University of Sheffield, **__Professor at University of Warwick__**, January 20**__0<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">7</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> Asia Policy Number 3 75-104, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan” http://docs.google.com/gview?a=v&q=cache:blE5TXfgjFIJ:www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf+japanese+nuclearization+and+taiwan&hl=en&gl=us
In turn, it is clear ...North Korea on its nuclear program.

**That causes extinction**
Toshimaru **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ogura and</span>__** Ingyu **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Oh</span>__** are professors of economics, April, “Nuclear clouds over the Korean peninsula and Japan,” 19**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">97</span>__** Accessed July 10, 2008 via Lexis-Nexis (Monthly Review)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">North Korea, South Korea, ...to escalate into a global conflagration.</span>

**Most probable cause for escalation—US draw-in is inevitable**
Jon **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Landay</span>,__** 3/10/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">2k</span>__**, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, p. lexis
The 3,700-mile ...the already shaky international nonproliferation regime.

**Japan has the ability to rearm now**
Jung **__Sung-ki__**, Korea Times staff writer, 3/18/20**__10__**, “S. Korea, Japan Can Build Nuclear Weapons Quickly,” http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/07/205_62636.html vkoneru
South Korea, like <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Japan, ...political leaders decide to do so.</span>

**Japan goes nuclear in four days.**
Toshi **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Yoshihara and</span>__** James R. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Holmes</span>__**, associate professors of strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, 200**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">9</span>__** Naval War College Review, “Thinking About the Unthinkable: Tokyo’s Nuclear Option” cp
Will Japan go nuclear?Doubtful...resource-dependent Japanese economy relies.

**Scenario 2 is Warming**

**Strengthening U.S.-Japan alliance is key to energy innovation and environmental regulations**
Kent E. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Calder</span>__**, Director of Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, 02/01/20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">10</span>__** “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.‐JAPAN COOPERATION,” http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf
Active U.S.‐Japan ...embedded political interests in both countries.

**U.S.-Japan cooperation sets a precedent for clean energy and innovation in Asia that solves climate change**
Nirav **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Patel</span>__**, a research associate, specializing in Asian affairs, at the Center for a New American Security<span style="color: #504e4e; font-family: Georgia;">.</span> December 7 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">07</span>__** World Politics Review, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,” http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation
Historically, U.S.-...international peace, stability and security.

**We’re on the brink of runaway warming—that causes extinction**
Oliver **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Tickell,</span>__** environmental researcher, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span>__**, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange
We need to get prepared for ...us towards a similar hothouse Earth.

**Overwhelming scientific consensus proves warming is real and anthropogenic**
Stefan **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Rahmstorf</span>,__** Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 200**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">8</span>__** (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49
It is time to turn to ...with which we need to deal.

**The warming debate is over – we need to act now to prevent positive feedbacks from taking over and causing runaway warming**
James E. **__Hanson__**. Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book State of the Wild. 20**__08__**, “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April, http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf
Fast feedbacks—changes that occur ...in all this will be wildlife.

**Err aff – contradicting scientific claims mean it’s better to stop emissions now – we can always restart them later if necessary**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">CSM</span>__**, Christian Science Monitor, Peter N. Spotts, staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor, Mar 18 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">04</span>__**, “Ice age to warming - and back?” http://www.csmonitor.com/2004/0318/p13s01-sten.html
The Little Ice Age and "...research priorities and possible adaptation strategies.

**Warming outweighs all other impacts**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The New York End Times</span>__** is a non-partisan, non-religious, non-ideological, free news filter. We monitor world trends and events as they pertain to two vital threats - war and extinction. We use a proprietary methodology to quantify movements between the extremes of war and peace, harmony and extinction, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">06</span>__**, http://newyorkendtimes.com/extinctionscale.asp
We rate <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Global Climate Change as ...</span>need to incorporate the dangers here.

**Even if we don’t win rapid warming, slight temperature increases cause methane burps which cause extinction**
John **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Atcheson</span>__**, geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies, “Ticking Time Bomb,” Baltimore Sun, December 15, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">04</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> http://www.commondreams.org/views04/1215-24.htm
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">There are enormous quantities of naturally .... We have to act now.</span>

**Even 1% risk justifies action – the consequences are too big**
Robert **__Storm__**, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, 20**__07__**, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246
Keep in mind that the current ...The time for action is now.

**Contention 3 is Guam**

**Current relocation plan shifts Okinawan troops to Guam—additional troop cuts would be similarly redeployed**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kan and Niksch 10</span>** (Shirley, Larry, specialist in Asian security affairs, spec. in Asian affairs, Congressional Research Service, Guam: U.S. Defense Deployments, p.1)pl
In May 2006, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">...</span>, Seattle, and San Diego.

**Guam redeployment checks North Korea and neutralizes threats of preemptive strike —troops in South Korea are insufficient**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Erickson and Mikolay in 5</span>** (Andrew, Justin, assist. Prof. of Strategic Studies at U.S. Naval War college, Prof. at USNA, Comparative Strategy, Anchoring America’s Asian Assets: Why Washington Must Strengthen Guam, p. 160-162)pl
U.S. military force ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the</span> very <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">survival of the planet.</span>

**Contention 4 is Solvency**

**The current alliance is strategically useless and will not survive a crisis—shift toward Japanese self-defense strengthens the alliance and cooperation on other bilateral issues**
Michael J. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Finnegan</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span> senior research associate at The National Bureau of Asian Research, “Return to Basics: Recalibrating the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue 10, July 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span> http://asiapolicy.nbr.org {jchen}
What next then? Where do ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">tool of immense</span> and enduring <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">value</span>.

**Futenma only highlighted the issue of broader opposition to US bases in Japan**
Terashima **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Jitsuro,</span>__** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">8/20</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">/</span>10 Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve
But history is harsh. Hatoyama ...the present state of the bases.

**Current US policy has made the nuclear umbrella and military deployment obsolete—bases in Japan no longer hold any deterrence value**
Terashima **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Jitsuro</span>,__** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">10</span>__** Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve
At the time of the regime ...Japanese strategic thinking will loom important.


===Grapevine - Secondary Stimulus Advantage (Rd 5. v Jesuit MD)=== 
**Japan’s economy is at an all-time low, but reforms can prevent collapse**
Kazuaki **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Nagata</span>__**, Staff Writer for Kyoto News, Kyoto News, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">9/18</span>__**/2010, “Extra Budget on the Way” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nb20100918a1.html, KR
Japan entered the foreign-exchange ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the Japanese economy</span>," Saito said.

**Kan is pushing stimulus now—divided diet prevents passage**
Kazuaki **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Nagata</span>__**, Staff Writer for Kyoto News, Kyoto News, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">9/18</span>__**/2010, “Extra Budget on the Way” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nb20100918a1.html, KR
Prime Minister Naoto <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kan will order ...</span>bolster the export-driven economy.

**And stimulus is key to the economy—generates jobs and consumer demand causing growth**
Kazuaki **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Nagata</span>__**, Staff Writer for Kyoto News, Kyoto News, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">9/18</span>__**/2010, “Extra Budget on the Way” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nb20100918a1.html, KR
Last week, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kan announced</span> emergency <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">...</span>an opposition-controlled Upper House.

**Kan’s current support for Nago relocation alienate the Diet—plan’s withdrawal would be spun as a win and would show that Kan listens to citizen demand**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Manichi</span>__** Japan, The Mainichi Daily News, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">9/18</span>__**/2010, “Disappointment in Okinawa over Kan’s Re-election as DPJ leader”, http://mdn.mainichi.jp/mdnnews/news/20100915p2a00m0na004000c.html, KR
Okinawa <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">officials </span>opposing plans to relocate ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">when Kan emerged as the victor.</span>

**3 year impact time frame—failure to resolve stagnation before that ensures economic collapse**
Huffington Post, Devin **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Stewart</span>__**, Program Director and Senior Fellow, Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs (blog), **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">7/15</span>__**/10, " Will a Rudderless Japan Drift into Crisis? ," http://www.huffingtonpost.com/devin-stewart/will-a-rudderless-japan-d_b_648321.html vkoneru
"<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Three</span> to four <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">years</span> from ...revenue and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">employment in the future."</span>


**Japanese economic crisis triggers global collapse**
Alan P. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Weiss</span>__**, president of Regent Wealth Management Group 12/7/**__09__**, New Haven Register “Japan’s deflation could have global ripple effect” http://www.nhregister.com/articles/2009/12/27/business/f2-weiss27.txt
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">JAPAN has the second-largest ...</span>a stronger and healthier economy tomorrow.


**Nuclear war**
Walter Russell **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Mead</span>__**, Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy Studies @ Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, 2-4-**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">09</span>__**, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=1
The greatest danger both to U...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">we may</span> still <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">have to fight.</span>



===Pflugerville - Japan 1AC=== 
**Plan: The United States federal government should reduce nearly all of the United States’ military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.**

**Contention 1 is the Alliance**

**Alliance collapse is inevitable—Futenma only highlighted broader opposition to US bases**
Terashima **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Jitsuro,</span>__** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>__** Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve {jchen} 
But history is harsh. Hatoyama ...the present state of the bases. 

**Japanese leaders are shifting towards an increasingly anti US stance—drawdown of forces is key to appease them and maintain the security alliance**
Kenneth B. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Pyle,</span>__** Professor of History and Asian Studies at the University of Washington, “Troubled Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue 10, July 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>__**, __<span style="color: blue;">http://asiapolicy.nbr.org</span>__ {jchen} 
Japan and the United States are ...this domination has shaped Japanese behavior. 

**Scenario 1 is Japanese Rearmament**

**Maintaining the alliance prevents Japanese rearmament**
John **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Ikenberry</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span> professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice at Georgetown, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">08</span>__** (Beyond Bilateralism: US-Japan Relations in the New Asia-Pacific, Ed. Krauss and Pempel) 
The alliance system—and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the ...</span>China shared with the United States. 

**Even perception of Japanese weaponization sets off an Asian arms race**
Christopher W **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Hughes,</span> PhD__** University of Sheffield, **__Professor at University of Warwick__**, January 20**__0<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">7</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span> Asia Policy Number 3 75-104, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan” __<span style="color: blue;">http://docs.google.com/gview?a=v&q=cache:blE5TXfgjFIJ:www</span>__.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf+japanese+nuclearization+and+taiwan&hl=en&gl=us 
In turn, it is clear ...North Korea on its nuclear program. 

**That causes extinction**
Toshimaru **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Ogura and</span>__** Ingyu **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Oh</span>__** are professors of economics, April, “Nuclear clouds over the Korean peninsula and Japan,” 19**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">97</span>__** Accessed July 10, 2008 via Lexis-Nexis (Monthly Review) 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">North Korea, South Korea, ...to escalate into a global conflagration.</span>

**Most probable cause for escalation—US draw-in is inevitable**
Jon **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Landay</span>,__** 3/10/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2k</span>__**, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, p. lexis 
The 3,700-mile ...the already shaky international nonproliferation regime. 

**Japan has the ability to rearm now**
Jung **__Sung-ki__**, Korea Times staff writer, 3/18/20**__10__**, “S. Korea, Japan Can Build Nuclear Weapons Quickly,” __<span style="color: blue;">http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/07/205_62636.html </span>__ vkoneru
South Korea, like <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Japan, ...political leaders decide to do so.</span>

**Japan goes nuclear in four days.**
Toshi **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Yoshihara and</span>__** James R. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Holmes</span>__**, associate professors of strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, 200**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">9</span>__** Naval War College Review, “Thinking About the Unthinkable: Tokyo’s Nuclear Option” cp
Will Japan go nuclear?Doubtful...resource-dependent Japanese economy relies.

**Scenario 2 is Warming**

**Strengthening U.S.-Japan alliance is key to energy innovation and environmental regulations**
Kent E. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Calder</span>__**, Director of Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at SAIS/Johns Hopkins University, 02/01/20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">10</span>__** “U.S. CLIMATE POLICY AND PROSPECTS FOR U.S.‐JAPAN COOPERATION,” http://www.us-jpri.org/en/reports/s1_calder.pdf
Active U.S.‐Japan ...embedded political interests in both countries.

**U.S.-Japan cooperation sets a precedent for clean energy in Asia-that solves climate change**
Nirav **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Patel</span>__**, a research associate, specializing in Asian affairs, at the Center for a New American Security<span style="color: #504e4e; font-family: Georgia;">.</span> December 7 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">07</span>__** World Politics Review, “The U.S.-Japan Alliance Should Evolve to Encompass Environmental Cooperation,” http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/1420/the-u-s-japan-alliance-should-evolve-to-encompass-environmental-cooperation
Historically, U.S.-...States and its people to do.

**Warming causes extinction**
Oliver **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Tickell,</span>__** environmental researcher, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">08</span>__**, 8/11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange
We need to get prepared for ...us towards a similar hothouse Earth.

**Overwhelming scientific consensus proves warming is real and anthropogenic**
Stefan **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Rahmstorf</span>,__** Professor of Physics @ Potsdam University, Member of the German Advisory Council on Climate Change, 200**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">8</span>__** (Global Warming: Looking Beyond Kyoto, ed. Ernesto Zedillo, Prof. IR @ Yale, p. 42-49
It is time to turn to ...with which we need to deal.

**The warming debate is over – we need to act now to prevent positive feedbacks from taking over and causing runaway warming**
James E. **__Hanson__**. Head of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City and adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Science at Columbia University. Al Gore’s science advisor. Introductory chapter for the book State of the Wild. 20**__08__**, “Tipping point: Perspective of a Scientist.” April, http://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/2008/StateOfWild_20080428.pdf
Fast feedbacks—changes that occur ...in all this will be wildlife.

**Err aff – contradicting scientific claims mean it’s better to stop emissions now – we can always restart them later if necessary**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">CSM</span>__**, Christian Science Monitor, Peter N. Spotts, staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor, Mar 18 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">04</span>__**, “Ice age to warming - and back?” http://www.csmonitor.com/2004/0318/p13s01-sten.html
The Little Ice Age and "...research priorities and possible adaptation strategies.

**Warming outweighs all other impacts**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The New York End Times</span>__** is a non-partisan, non-religious, non-ideological, free news filter. We monitor world trends and events as they pertain to two vital threats - war and extinction. We use a proprietary methodology to quantify movements between the extremes of war and peace, harmony and extinction, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">06</span>__**, http://newyorkendtimes.com/extinctionscale.asp
We rate <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Global Climate Change as ...</span>need to incorporate the dangers here.

**Even if we don’t win rapid warming, slight temperature increases cause methane burps which cause extinction**
John **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Atcheson</span>__**, geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies, “Ticking Time Bomb,” Baltimore Sun, December 15, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">04</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> http://www.commondreams.org/views04/1215-24.htm
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">There are enormous quantities of naturally .... We have to act now.</span>

**Even 1% risk justifies action – the consequences are too big**
Robert **__Storm__**, Prof. Emeritus Planetary Sciences @ U. Arizona and Former Dir. Space Imagery Center of NASA, “Hot House: Global Climate Change and the Human Condition”, 20**__07__**, Online: SpringerLink, p. 246
Keep in mind that the current ...The time for action is now.

**Contention 2 is Japanese Politics**

**Kan’s agenda is on the brink – Winning the Okinawa issue restores his credibility—spun as responsive to citizen demands**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kyodo News 7/11</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">/</span>2010,“Stability, unity key to Kan’s success: expert,” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100611f2.html
WASHINGTON — Ensuring <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">stability</span> and unity...we look forward," she said.

**Tax reform is unpopular but increased credibility on other issues lets Kan force it through**
Justin **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">McCurr</span>y__**, GlobalPost correspondent for Japan, 7/17/20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>__**, GlobalPost, http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/japan/100715/global-economy-japan?page=0,1
"It is possible to say ...the Democratic Party by its acronym.

**Tax reform’s solves deflation – it spurs growth**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">WSJ 7/18,</span>__** 2010,Tomoyuki Tachikawa, Dow Jones Newswires, “Correct: Japan Govt Aims For Growth Through Investments, Tax Cuts” http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20100618-703746.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines
Prime Minister Naoto <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Kan</span>'s Cabinet <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">approved ...money and the economy cannot revive."</span>

**3 years until debt crisis – failure to resolve stagnation ensures economic collapse**
Huffington Post, Devin **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Stewart</span>__**, Program Director and Senior Fellow, Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs (blog), **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">7/15</span>__**/10, " Will a Rudderless Japan Drift into Crisis? ," http://www.huffingtonpost.com/devin-stewart/will-a-rudderless-japan-d_b_648321.html vkoneru 
"<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Three</span> to four <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">years</span> from ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">revenue and employment in the future."</span>

**Japanese economic crisis triggers global collapse**
Alan P. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Weiss</span>__**, president of Regent Wealth Management Group 12/7/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">09</span>__**, New Haven Register “Japan’s deflation could have global ripple effect” http://www.nhregister.com/articles/2009/12/27/business/f2-weiss27.txt 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">JAPAN has the second-largest ...</span>a stronger and healthier economy tomorrow. 

**Economic collapse causes nuclear war**
Walter Russell **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Mead</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">,</span> Senior Fellow in US Foreign Policy Studies @ Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, 2-4-**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">09</span>__**, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=1 
The greatest danger both to U...we may still have to fight. 

**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**Current US policy has made the nuclear umbrella and military deployment obsolete—bases in Japan no longer hold any deterrence value**
Terashima **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Jitsuro</span>,__** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>__** Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve {jchen} 
At the time of the regime ...Japanese strategic thinking will loom important. 

**Claims of bases as “deterrence” are exaggerated and self-serving—the economic benefits of Japan paying for the bases has blinded real policy analysis**
Terashima **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Jitsuro</span>,__** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>__** Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve {jchen} 
What the Flip-Flop Revealed...the status quo is "deterrence." 

**The alliance is trapped within an unsustainable Cold War paradigm—removal of bases allows movement toward a new international order**
Terashima **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Jitsuro</span>,__** chairman of the Japan Research Institute, president of Tama University, president of Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute, "The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure and the Future", 8/20/**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>__** Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/the_us-japan_alliance_must_evolve {jchen} 
The Futenma flip-flop exposed ...post-Cold War international order. 

**The current alliance is strategically useless and will not survive a crisis—shift toward Japanese self-defense strengthens the alliance and cooperation on other bilateral issues**
Michael J. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Finnegan</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span> senior research associate at The National Bureau of Asian Research, “Return to Basics: Recalibrating the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance”, Compilation: A New Stage for the U.S. –Japan Alliance?, Asia Policy, Issue 10, July 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">10</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">,</span> http://asiapolicy.nbr.org {jchen} 
What next then? Where do ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">tool of immense</span> and enduring <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">value</span>. 

**Removing troops restores the alliance and shifts to more sustainable cooperation on other security issues**
Doug **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bandow</span>__**, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Vice President of Policy for Citizen Outreach, Huffington Post, Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy, served as a Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, nationally syndicated columnist with Copley News Service, and editor of the monthly political magazine Inquiry, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">3/25</span>__**/2010, “Okinawa and the Problem of Empire,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/okinawa-and-the-problems_b_512610.html vkoneru
The Japanese government needs to assess ...justice -- after 65 long years

**The current alliance is outdated—withdrawing military presence accounts for changing Japanese priorities while still maintaining relations**
Doug **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Bandow</span>__**, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, Vice President of Policy for Citizen Outreach, Huffington Post, Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy, served as a Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, nationally syndicated columnist with Copley News Service, and editor of the monthly political magazine Inquiry, 11/2/20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">09</span>__**, “Dealing with the New Japan: Washington Won't Take "No" for an Answer,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/dealing-with-the-new-japa_b_275914.html vkoneru
A political earthquake hit Tokyo on ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">defense dependence on the U.S</span>. 


==2AC== 
===2AC Disads=== 
====AT: China Deterrence==== 
**Asymmetrical deterrence checks**
Yan **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Xuetong</span>__** writer for JoongAng Daily “China, U.S. and East Asia” **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">9/6</span>__**/10 http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2925572
People disliked the confrontation between the ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">based on that asymmetric mutual deterrence.</span>

**Troops on Okinawa don’t matter – we won’t have a land war with China**
Doug **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Bandow</span>__** 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">10</span>__**, is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute and Vice President of Policy for Citizen Outreach, June 18th, 2010 [“Get Out of Japan”, National Interest Online, June 18th, 2010, available online at http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23592, accessed June 28, 2010]
The claim is oft-made ...do you need these twenty thousand?’”

**Presence causes instability – withdrawal solves**
NAKANO **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ryoko</span>__**, NANZAN REVIEW OF AMERICAN STUDIES “Ikenberry, American Empire and the U.S.-Japan Relationship” 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">05</span>__** http://www.wcfia.harvard.edu/us-japan/research/pdf/07-01.Akita.pdf JL
Ikenberry argues that the U....<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">escalate unnecessary tension in East Asia.</span>

**Current presence alienates China – continued basing means nuclear war**
Michael **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Klare</span>__**, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">2006</span>__**, “<span style="color: black;">Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html</span>
In discussing long-term threats ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">no victors from such a conflagration</span>.

**Strong US-Japan alliance key to show China resolve- deters conflicts and increases security**
**__The Daily Yomiuri__** (Tokyo) March 27, **__2005__**
China is rapidly emerging as a ...national interest in the long term.


===2AC Kritiks=== 
====AT: Fem IR==== 
**A critically realist approach, such as the perm, is essential to the feminist project**
//(Caroline **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">New</span>__**, Law @ ANU, Critical Realism, 200**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">4 </span>__**www.raggedclaws.com/criticalrealism/archive/ALETHIAv1n1_new2.pdf)//
//Like most poststructuralist feminists, Butler ...this realism needs to be critical.//

**Alt Fails - Distancing feminists from the military ensures they’ll always be outsiders, only able to drag down men not lift up women**
(Diane H. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Mazur</span>__** - Associate Professor of Law, U. of Florida. Captain, US Air Force, 1979-83 – 19**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">99</span>__** Spring, 22 Harv. Women's L.J. 39 “A CALL TO ARMS”)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The deliberate distance that legal feminists ...to increase the expertise of women</span>.

**The military requires a dehumanization of women and children and only sees them as objects of sexual exploitation, transferring diseases and leaving thousands of Amerasian children to suffer from stigma**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Kirk, Cornwell, Okazawa-Rey, 1996</span>__** [FOREIGN POLICY IN FOCUS, “Women and the U.S. Military in East Asia” Written by Gwyn Kirk, (Kirk - Ph.D. is visiting faculty in Women’s and Gender Studies at University of Oregon (2009-10) and a founder member of Women for Genuine Security), Gwyn Kirk and Margo Okazawa-Rey are founder-members of the East Asia-U.S. Women's Network Against U.S. Militarism. Rachel Cornwell is Program Assistant for the Demilitarization and Alternative Security Program of the Asia Pacific Center for Justice and Peace. Edited by Martha Honey (IPS) and Tom Barry (IRC), http://www.lightparty.com/Politics/ForeignPolicy/WomanInMilitary.html, EmiW]
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Negative effects of U.S...</span>treatment than those having Caucasian fathers.

**The fragmenting of decision making that relates to forced prostitution means that only by working within the political system can the problem be solved.**
**__Enloe 2k__**(Cynthia H. Enloe, Ph.D. in political science from UC Berkeley and Director of Clark University’s Women Studies program, 2000, “Maneuvers: The International Politics Of Militarizing Women's Lives”, p. 55)
Thus, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">military prostitution policies often ...</span>the status of a public issue.

**Double bind- either the alt defines a genderless subject or it essentializes - both are counterproductive and nonsensical for their political action**
Linda **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Alcoff</span>__,** Professor of Philosophy at Hunter College/CUNY Graduate Center, 19**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">88</span>__**, “Cultural Feminism versus Post-Structuralism: The Identity Crisis in Feminist Theory,”
Lauretis's main thesis is that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">subjectivity</span>...Are these really our only choices?

**Critique grounded in discourse fails – it can’t undermine larger power structures.**
(Wendy **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Brown</span>__**, prof Political Science UC Berkeley 200**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">1</span>__**, Politics Out of History, p. 35-37) JM
But here the problem goes well ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">for more far-reaching transformations.</span>

**Discourses inevitable – We won’t ever be able to escape because language also acts as a barrier.**
(Terry **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Eagleton</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of English Literature at the University of Lancaster “The illusions of postmodernism” 19**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">96</span>__** Pg. 12)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Grasping the shape of a totality ...</span>-surpassing or surge towards objects.


=Negative= 
==ASPEC== 
**USFG doesn’t exist**
//James **__Trafickant__** Jr., U.S. Representative from Ohio, U.S. Congressional Record, March 17,19**__33__**, http://www.gemworld.com/USA-Traficant.html//
//It is an established fact that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">...Government exists</span> today <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">in name only.</span>//


==Kritiks== 
===Security K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The Aff’s threats are inherently subjective, their construction of threats marginalize others to legitimize violence**
David, **__Grondin__** (master of pol sci and PHD of political studies @ U of Ottowa) **__2004__** “(Re)Writing the “National Security State”: How and Why Realists (Re)Built the(ir) Cold War,” http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/ieim/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf
Adopting a more critical stance, ...very conditions of existence are generated18.

**Security discourse is performative, not natural. The rhetoric of impending risk is used to ensure astonishing violence – whole populations are eliminated in the name of stability**
David **__Campbell__,** professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle. Writing Security, 19**__98__**, p. 199 – 202
Security and subjectivity are intrinsically linked...The police's true object is man."

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s security discourse – the act of situating ourselves against security in all forms through the means of debate is the only way to be emancipated from the deep entrenchment of security in our minds and society**
Mark **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Neocleous, Professor of Political Economy at Brunel University</span>__**, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">08</span>__**, “Critique of Security”, McGill-Queen’s University, pp. 184-186, Published 2008
The only way out of such ...brave enough to return the gift.143 

**Rejecting specific policies which embody the security paradigm is key. The act of voting not-aff is necessary to find a world post-security**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Burke</span>__**, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">02</span>__** (Anthony, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, Alternatives 27)
It is perhaps easy to become ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">what its </span>shimmering<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> possibilities might be</span>. 


====Link - Orientalism/Middle East==== 
**The 1ac is grounded in an orientalist discourse of middle eastern security defined according to U.S. imperial interests.**
Pinar **__Bilgin__**, @ Bilkent Univ, 20**__04__**, International Relations 18.1, “Whose ‘Middle East’? Geopolitical Inventions and Practices of Security,” p. 28
What I call <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the ‘Middle ...of treachery and imprisoned</span> at worst. 

====Link - China==== 
**The affirmative’s discussion of policy is based on a positivist mode of “knowing” China. China is not something that we stand back and observe - this constructs a mode of thought that can only relate to China as a threat.**
Chengxin **__Pan__**, PhD degree in Political Science and International Relations from the Australian National University The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics, Alternatives: Global, Local, Political, Vol. 29, 20**__04__**
China and its relationship with the ...article seeks to make a contribution.

===Fem IR K=== 
**The affirmative is wrapped up within statist national security policy that relies on masculine characteristics while subverting feminine tendencies. These security concepts are inextricably linked to the political realization of the plan**
Ann **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Tickner</span>**, Professor of International Relations, Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era, 200**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">1</span>** pg 52
Does the fact that states' <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">national...cannot be separated from political practice.</span>

**This masculine ideology is the root cause of all proliferation, environmental destruction, domestic violence, and war**
Karen J **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Warren</span>, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">and</span>** Duane L **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Cady</span>,** feminists and authors, Hypatia, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing connections,” 19**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">94</span>** pg 16-17
Much of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the</span> current "<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">unmanageability...</span>earth difficult, if not impossible.

**Our Kritik isn’t limited to masculine characteristics of security, but the security paradigm inherent with the masculine war machine**
Carol **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Cohn</span>**, Researcher and Teacher at Harvard Medical Signs, **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">and</span>** Sara **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ruddick</span>**, author, A Feminist Ethical Perspective on Weapons of Mass Destruction 20**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">03</span>**, http://www.genderandsecurity.umb.edu/cohnruddick.pdf
Anti-war <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">feminists’ opposition to ...too often human security is not</span>.

**Our alternative is to vote negative. Rejection of a framework that normalizes masculine warfare is critical to adopt epistemologies centered on a feminist ethic of peace**
Carol **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Cohn</span>**, Researcher and Teacher at Harvard Medical Signs, **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">and</span>** Sara **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ruddick</span>**, author, A Feminist Ethical Perspective on Weapons of Mass Destruction 20**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">03</span>**, http://www.genderandsecurity.umb.edu/cohnruddick.pdf
Both in philosophy and in “..., and about the frame itself. 

===Gendered Language K=== 
**The use of gendered “he/man” language renders womyn linguistically invisible and makes their subjugation seem acceptable**
Dale **__Spender__**, an Australian feminist scholar, teacher, writer and consultant, 19**__80__**, "Man made language", pg.157
The effects of he/man ...image is kept in the foreground.)

**Gendered language shapes our reality**
Dale **__Spender__**, an Australian feminist scholar, teacher, writer and consultant, 19**__80__**, "Man made language", pg. 2-3
Each day we construct the world ...the construction of our world view.

**Alternative – reject their gendered discourse**
**We must refuse to accept gendered language and challenge its androcentric origins**
Sally **__McConnell-Ginet__**, department of Modern Languages and Linguistics @ Cornell University, 19**__83__**, Language, Gender, and Society, page 83
This sketch of a theory of ...of these views are clearly understood. 

===Nayar K=== 
====1NC==== 
**The affirmative’s claim to equal the playing field in an egalitarian fashion is far-fetched an naïve – it cedes power to the state to solve status quo problems**
Susanne **__Kappeler__**, 19**__95__**, The Will to Violence The Politics of Personal Behavior, NM, p. 14-15 
Although it must certainly be the ...the discussion of aims and means. 

**Reinforcing the order of top down solutions and the global ideology legitimizes perpetual warfare and endless violence in the name of accomplishing the end goal.**
Jayan **__Nayar__,** School of Law, University of Warwick, “SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity,” Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems, Fall, 19**__99__**, NM, lexis 
Yet, this proclaimed "truth..."untruth," superstition and propaganda. 

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s appeal to global order. This action refuses to engage in a subservient relationship to broader powers and opens up space for personal reordering.**
Jayan **__Nayar__,** School of Law, University of Warwick, “SYMPOSIUM: RE-FRAMING INTERNATIONAL LAW FOR THE 21ST CENTURY: Orders of Inhumanity,” Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems, Fall, 19**__99__**, NM, lexis) 
We are today bombarded by ..., the essential message of Mahatmas. 

====Link - Neoliberalism==== 
**Neoliberalism is best challenged at the local level**
Nick **__Robinson__**, Yale Law School, J.DD., Fox Fellow at Jawaharal Nehru University, 40 Akron L. Rev. 647 20**__06__**, lexis 
Although fewer people vote in local ...be checked both here and abroad.


===Weaponitis K=== 
**The aff focuses on a specific incarnation of our cultural obsession with the super weapon which will finally end war. This ignores that nuclear weapons are not unique, but part of a long historical progression dating back to the discovery that rocks kill more efficiently than fists. This means the criticism is woefully inept and only guarantees development of new and more deadly weapons to replace nuclear ones.**
**__Wagar__**, 19**__89__** (W. Warren, Distinguished Teaching Professor of History at SUNY Binghamton, “Truth and Fiction, equally Strange: Writing about the bomb,” American Literary History, 1:2, Summer)
As Goethe wrote of the Germans...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">scrap of protection from its powe</span>r.

**Our alternative is to reject the affirmative’s optimism that eliminating the most recent incarnation of the superweapon cult will fundamentally transform culture. This pessimistic criticism of culture is the only way to rupture our obsession with superweapons and prevent extinction.**
**__Franklin__**, 20**__08__** (H. Bruce, John Cotton Dana Professor of English and American Studies at Rutgers University, War Stars: The Superweapon and the American Imagination, P. 167-169)
Instead, the superweapon now attained ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">prevent nuclear war—so far</span>.


**The affirmative can never access our criticism because they are fundamentally optimistic. The premise of the 1AC is that everyone would be fine if it weren’t for these pesky nuclear weapons, we agree that nuclear weapons are most likely bad, but disagree that modern culture has made progress from this point a reasonable thing to hope for. Our criticism embraces the pessimism that fundamental flaws in our cultural psyche have made progress much more difficult than simply dismantling the nuclear arsenal. Only this relentless pessimism and self criticism can prevent repetition of the errors which brought us to this position**
**__Dienstag 4__** Joshua Foa, Associate Professor of Politics at the University of Virginia. Tragedy, Pessimism, Nietzsche. New Literary History 34:1 Project Muse
So, while the pessimistic conception ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">speak of a terror that liberates</span>.



===Anti-Nuclear Nuclearism=== 
**The idea of a “world free of nuclear weapons” is a fig leaf for American military dominance and the perpetuation of structural neocolonialist inequalities against emerging nuclear states. Don’t buy their rhetoric of disarmament—their plan will inevitably be co-opted in order to justify global violence against the non-Western periphery**
Darwin __**<span class="CitesChar">BondGraham</span>**__, sociologist, __**and**__ Will __**Parrish**__, anti-imperialist activist, 20__**09**__, “Anti-Nuclear Nuclearism” Foreign Policy in Focus, January 12, 2009 http://www.fpif.org/fpiftxt/5782
The Obama administration is likely to ...foremost problem of the nuclear age.



===Value to Life K=== 
**The framing of value to life justifies euthanasia and genocide**
Richard __**Coleson**__, M.A.R., J.D., Issues in Law & Medicine, Summer, 19__**97**__
Euthanasia also was advocated in Germany...euthanasia will be no less dire.


**Their argument risks a slippery slope – once we decide that certain lives are not worth living- all killing is justified and we jeopardize all ethics**
Lisa __**Hanger**__, B.A. at Miami University, Summer, 19__**92**__, Journal of Law-Medicine, 5 Health Matrix 347
Considering anencephalic infants "dead" ...down the slippery slope becomes significant.


**The alternative is to reject the affirmative for their framing of life. We endorse a framework where there is always meaning to life.**
Victor __**Frankl**__, Professor of Neurology and Psychiatry at the University of Vienna, Man’s Search for Meaning, 19__**46**__, p. 104
These efforts were usually concerned with ...miserably—knowing how to die.



===Spanos K=== 
====1NC==== 
**Just as the senior Bush administration dismissed the protests of the Vietnam War era by proclaiming that they had “kicked the Vietnam syndrome,” the idea that we can remove military presence from a country is ideologically debunk – even after troops are withdrawn and bases are closed, the affirmative closes themselves off to the fact that the idea of America and memories of imperialism are left behind in the minds of the locals. This kind of half-way reform only returns legitimacy to American imperial domination and provides justification for further redeployments.**
William V. **__Spanos__**, Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, Binghamton, New York, founder and editor of the critical journal boundary, Ph.D from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, **__2k__**, “America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire,” p. 141-144 vkoneru
With this symbolic denouement, the ...of this (self-)disclosure.

**The present sociopolitical occasion is not the time for heralding in democracy or boosting U.S. dominance – we are in the interregnum, between the decline and rise of imperial powers – we are between spaces and inhabit the non-place of the intellectual in exile. The American century has come to an end, and with it ends the unipolar domination of the planet that the united states has crusaded for since the end of the second world war. The affirmative, in positing liberal capitalist democracy as the last and only option for “civilized” individuals to reside in, constructs the world in a way that justifies imperial domination. The affirmative merely attempts to rescue imperialism from the throes of death.**
William V. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Spanos</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, Binghamton, New York, founder and editor of the critical journal boundary, Ph.D from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span>__**, “American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam,” pp. 23-24 //vkoneru//
//<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The urgency of the need to ...</span>163)—“<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">is” as such.</span>//

**Although an American exceptionalist ontology claims invincibility, Vietnam ruptured the American national identity – America’s mission in the global wilderness self-destructed as we occupied a world that resisted consenting to the “truth” of liberal capitalist democracy. The forced forgetting of being has led us to a point where American exceptionalism will destroy the planet**
William V. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Spanos</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, Binghamton, New York, founder and editor of the critical journal boundary, Ph.D from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, 2005, “American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam,” 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span>__**, pp. ix-x vkoneru
In this book I contend that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">...rethinking the very idea of America.</span>

**Thus, our alternative: <silence>**

**Voting negative isn’t complicity with oppression – it is an act of standing in silence against the imperial system. We are the recalcitrant Other who is unanswerable to the western imperial machine. Our silence is neither accessible nor able to be accommodated as another detail in the story of the imperial system. Any attempt to fix the War Machine quickly becomes a way to “heal the wound” of past failures – no matter how revolutionary, no matter how extreme, absent a silence to imperialism, imperialism becomes anew. Instead of fighting against imperialism, we should simply be unanswerable to it – we should be like the Vietcong and never get taken alive.**
William V. **__Spanos__**, Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, Binghamton, New York, founder and editor of the critical journal boundary, Ph.D from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, “Pierre’s Extraordinary Emergency: Melville and “the Voice of Silence,” Part 2,” Duke University Press, boundary 2 28.3, 20**__01__**, pp. 144-151, muse //vkoneru//
This, I think, against ...a “Voice out of Silence.”


**The epistemology of the 1ac is fundamentally flawed—it structures being into a terrain that it can control and monitor. Instead of being trapped within the standpoint of the individual, we will utilize the ballot to step outside this frame of the self and instead view the debate round from the perspective of the field itself. This reorientation makes the idea of imperialism impossible because the empire is only able to silence opposition because the humanist standpoint is unable to perceive the periphery to where opposition is banished.**
William V. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Spanos</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, Binghamton, New York, founder and editor of the critical journal boundary, Ph.D from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span>__**, “American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam,” pp. 47-50 vkoneru
The overdetermination of the visual in ...look at them. (CMP, 25–26).

====<span style="text-decoration: none;">AT: Perm</span>==== 
**Their attempt to acknowledge the “value” of our critique is a process of colonization which includes dissent only in as much as it contributes to an illusion of consent to domination.**
William V. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Spanos</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, Binghamton, New York, founder and editor of the critical journal boundary, Ph.D from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">2k</span>__**, “America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire,” p. 50-51 //vkoneru//
Unlike its predecessor in the ancien ...of him belong to this production.”


**The permutation ultimately fails because its focus on historically specific politics ignores the fact that imperialism is not a singular entity, rather it is a polyvalent entity – this makes it impossible for the permutation to perceive being.**
William V. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Spanos</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, Binghamton, New York, founder and editor of the critical journal boundary, Ph.D from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span>__**, “American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam,” pp. 28-29 vkoneru
The “political Left” of ...formative years of the nation’s literature.38


==Counterplans== 
===Consult NATO=== 
**TEXT: The United States federal government should enter into prior, binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization over whether to . The United States should advocate the plan through the process of consultation and should enact the end result of consultation.**
**A. Withdrawal absent consultation crushes the alliance**
Simon <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**Koschut 10**</span>, Assistant Professor for North American foreign and security policy at the John-F. Kennedy Institute at Free University Berlin 1/15/ <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**10**</span>, Simon, Spiegel Online International, “How To Get Out Without Sacrificing Afghanistan’s Instability”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.spiegel.de/international/germany/0,1518,672228,00.html</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Critical to</span> the successful completion of ...out-of-area operations.

**B. Only prior binding consultation solves**
James <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**Goldgeier**</span>**,** adjunct senior fellow @ Institute for European Studies <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**and**</span> Elizabeth Sherwood- <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**Randall**</span> adjunct senior fellow for alliance relations @ Stanford University**,** 2/18/ <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**05**</span> FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE
MR. GOLDGEIER: Well, ..., in capitals and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">at NATO.</span>

**C. Alliance cohesion is key to maintaining global order – US is facing power challenges and must rely on European allies to deter threats**
Zbigniew <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**Brezezinski**</span>, former national security advisor, September/October 20 <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**09**</span> “An Agenda for NATO”, Foreign Affairs, page lexis
The basic challenge that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">NATO</span> now <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">...</span>States and the West more generally.


===MTCR Conditions CP=== 
====1NC==== 
**TEXT: The United States federal government should end missile defense presence in Japan if and only if the People’s Republic of China adheres to export control and behavior standards per the Missile Technology Control Regime.**
**China would adhere to MTCR if we conditioned it on reducing TMD**
James Clay **Moltz**, PhD, Assoc. Prof. Nat’l Security Affairs @ Naval Postgraduate School, “Missile Proliferation in East Asia: Arms Control vs. TMD Responses,” in the Nonproliferation Review, Summer 19**97**, http://cns.miis.edu/npr/pdfs/moltz43.pdf
Another area where Chinese behavior has ...of U.S. concern.

**Net benefit –**

**China is rapidly increasing rogue state weapons proliferation.**
Shirley A. **Kan**, specialist in Asian Security Affairs, works in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division of the Congressional Research Service, 20**09**, “China and Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction and Missiles: Policy Issues,” in CRS Report for US Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL31555.pdf
Congress has long been concerned about ...nonproliferation in North Korea and Iran.

**Weakened MTCR leads to Indo-Pak conflict that escalates to global nuclear war – it’s the most probable scenario.**
Stephen J. **Blank**, Assoc. Prof. Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine – Maxwell Air Force Base, SSI expert on the Soviet bloc and post-Soviet world, Prospects for U.S.-Russian Security Cooperation, March 20**09**, Strategic Studies Institute, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB892.pdf)
Other reasons for concern about cruise ...such a war to break out.

**MTCR compliance solves – export controls dramatically slow proliferation.**
Adam J. **Hebert**, senior editor – Journal of the Air Force Association, "Cruise Control,” Air Force Magazine, December 20**02**, Vol. 85, No. 12., http://www.airforce-magazine.com/MagazineArchive/Pages/2002/December%202002/1202cruise.aspx
Nonetheless, MTCR has slowed proliferation ...option for our adversaries to pursue."

**And, China is key – other countries give technical expertise, but they’re the clearing house.**
Henry **Sokolski**, executive director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, “Heritage Lecture #761,” September 6, 20**02**, http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/hl761.cfm)
Second, with renewed transfers of ...major clearinghouse for Western missile technology.


====2NC Say Yes==== 
**BMD is a unique __bargaining chip__.**
Paul **__Godwin__**, Prof. IR @ the Nat’l War College, **__and__** Evan **__Medeiros__**, senior research assoc. in the East Asia Program @ the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, **__2k__**, “Current History, China, America, and Missile Defense: Conflicting National Interests,” September, cns.miis.edu/archive/country_china/pdfs/godwinma.pdf
Although challenging, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">theater defenses to ...</span>in the United States security interest.

**China explicitly links BMD and MTCR compliance – they use it to get concessions now.**
Phil **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Saunders</span>__**, Director of the East Asia Program at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, with Jing-dong Yuan and Gaurav Kampani, Senior Research Associates at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2k</span>__**, "How and Why China Proliferates Ballistic Missiles to Pakistan," August 22, Rediff, http://www.rediff.com/news/2000/aug/22spec.htm
But China's policies are not monocausal...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">systems currently under development to Taiwan.</span>

**Pressure is empirically successful – China wants a quid pro quo.**
Gary J. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Meise</span>__**, JD candidate – Vanderbilt, 19**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">97</span>__**, “NOTE: Securing the Strength of the Renewed NPT: China, the Linchpin "Middle Kingdom",” May, 30 Vand. J. Transnat'l L. 539, Lexis
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Past efforts by the United States ...</span>recent U.S. administrations.


===Neoliberaism - IMF CP=== 
**TEXT: The World Bank and the International Monetary fund should cancel all outstanding debts.**
**Debt cancellation solves neoliberalism**
Robert **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Naiman</span>__**, senior researcher for CEPR, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">’99</span>__** (“No Jubilee for the Middle East?” Middle East Report, No. 213, Millennial Middle East: Changing Orders, Shifting Borders. (Winter, 1999), pp. 13-15.)
The campaign for <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">debt cancellation</span> has ...developing countries might demand more freedom.



===Local Engagement CP=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should limit its counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan to Tribal Engagement Teams supporting Tribal Security Forces, eliminating other counterinsurgency operations.**
**Withdrawing counterinsurgency operations entirely makes internal conflict and terrorism inevitable – maintaining a narrowly tailored local presence solves every reason previous COIN operations have failed.**
Adam **__Hollaway__**, British member of parliament and the British Conservative Party, 11/02/**__09__**, Center for Policy Studies, “IN BLOOD STEPP’D IN SO FAR?”, “http://www.cps.org.uk/cps_catalog/inbloodsteppedinsofar.pdf
At a time when we should ...the sting out of the insurgency.

**Specifically, Tribal Engagement Teams and Tribal Security Forces empower tribal mechanisms for conflict resolution and prevent Taliban insurgency – they’re key to stability.**
Jim **__Gant__**, Major U.S. Army Special Forces, 12/1/**__09__**, “One Tribe At a Time”, http://agora.stevenpressfield.com/2009/10/one-tribe-at-a-time-4-the-full-document-at-last/
The natural governance of Afghanistan is ..., Quadrant on-line, p. 5)

**There’s a unique window of opportunity for counterinsurgency founded on local engagement to succeed – bottom up approaches will succeed and are key to stability.**
Seth G. **__Jones__**, Political Science RAND’s Washington Office and Ph.D. Political Science, U Chicago, **__and__** Arturo **__Muñoz__**, Senior Political Scientist, Ph.D. in history from Stanford, 20**__10__**, RAND Corporation- National Defense Research Institute, http://www.rc.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2010/RAND_MG1002.pdf
Effectively leveraging local communities should significantly ...defense forces and mitigate these risks.

===Futenma Congress CP (Memorial Quarters v Dulles AS)=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">TEXT: The United States Congress should cut off all funding allocated to the maintenance of the United States Marine Corps Air Station Futenma in Japan. The United States Congress should provide funding for the withdrawal of all United States military personnel, as well as any civilian dependents, from the United States Marine Corps Air Station Futenma in Japan.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Counterplan solves—Congress has empirically used funding cutoffs to end foreign deployments successfully</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">Richard F. __**Grimmett**__, Specialist in National Defense, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, 1/10/__**01**__, CRS Report for Congress, “ Congressional Use of Funding Cutoffs Since 1970 Involving U.S. Military Forces and Overseas Deployments ”, http://www.fas.org/man/crs/RS20775.pdf{jchen}</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 90%;">In cases of significant differences with ...than has the War Powers Resolution.</span>

==='We' PIC=== 
**Use of the term ‘we’ paves the way for government intervention into individual lives and the debate space – this form of politicization in debate causes tyrannical rule and coercion, crushing the possibility for participatory democracy**
Roger __**Kerr**__, Executive Director of the New Zealand Business Roundtable, __**‘3**__ (“The 'We' Word: And the Tyranny of the Majority” http://www.cis.org.au/policy/summer03-04/polsumm0304-4.htm)
Of all such terms, 'we' ...into an Orwellian world at worst.

**Unchecked tyranny causes mass suffering**
__**Rummel**__, Professor Emiritus at University of Hawaii, 19__**94**__ [“Death By Government”, http://www.hawaii.edu/powerkills/DBG.CHAP1.HTM]
Power kills, absolute Power kills ...Twentieth Century Book of the Dead.

**No value to life in a world of coercive governments and debate**
__**Foley, 85**__ (Ridgway K. Foley, Jr., a partner in Schwabe, Williamson, Wyatt, Moore & Roberts, practiced law in Portland, Oregon, The Freeman, “Essay on Caring,” April 1985, vol. 35, no. 4, www.libertyhaven.com/politicsandcurrentevents/politicalpartiesoractivism/essayoncaring.html)
Essay on Caring Political Aspirants are ...to care - -for themselves !

==='Government' PIC=== 
**TEXT: The United States Terrocrats should …**

**Our Net Benefit is Agency – Uncritical Deployment of the word “Government” Invests Power in a Symbol of Coercion – This Threatens Survival.**
Frederick __**Mann**__, Founder of Terra Libra, BA in Communications @ Sanford U, 19__**97**__, “Why You Must Recognize and Understand Coercion”
Levels Of Coercion In its strongest ...doing this is called Freedom Technology.

**“Government” Does Not Exist – Their Routinized Depiction of “Government” Surrenders Consent – The Word Terrocrat Threatens Authority.**
Frederick __**Mann**__, Founder of Terra Libra, BA in Communications @ Sanford U. 19__**98**__, “Report #TL07B: The Nature of Government”
We could also describe hallucination as ...very useful definition of "government!"

===Pit Stuffing CP (Memorial Semis v Mercedes MV)=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should not remove its B61s from Turkey. The United States federal government should pit stuff its B61s in Turkey.**

**Pit stuffing makes weapons unusable – can’t detonate anymore**
__**Garwin ‘1**__ (Richard, http://www.fas.org/rlg/010208-sipri.htm)
A more permanent method, pit ...which may have a different structure.

**More disassembly makes accidents inevitable.**
__**Brian ‘6**__ (Danielle, http://www.pogo.org/pogo-files/letters/nuclear-security-safety/nss-pantex-20061212.html)
In November 2006, the Project ...and indeed the entire Texas panhandle.

**Accidents lead to plutonium release, causes cancer**
__**Sussex ’96** (__Alan, http://www.mmmfiles.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=31&itemid=29)
There are over 6,000 ...(cancer causing agents) known.


==Disads== 
===Middle East Peace Talks Politics=== 
**Obama investing pol cap on Mideast peace now – sustained focus is crucial to avoid war with iran**
Alon **__Ben-Meir__** is a professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at NYU. He teaches courses on international negotiation and Middle Eastern studies, **__9/29__**/2010, Daily News Egypt, “Direct talks and their potential consequences,” lexis
President Obama has already invested substantial ...is racing toward acquiring nuclear weapons.

**<specific link here>**

**Iran war goes nuclear – pulls in Russia and Pakistan**
Mark **__Gaffney__**, Researcher, anti-nuclear activist, principle organizer of first earth day, 05/08/**__03__**, www.informationclearinghouse.info/article3288.htm
It is very possible--some ...events could spin out of control... 


===CMR DA=== 
**Civlian military relations strong, despite McChrystal**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">**AFP 7/14**</span>, "Holbrooke: No US civilian-military split in Kabul ", http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iqaoyPndfXzRPMz-kHjc5kvE5hbA
Top US <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">diplomats</span> and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">military leaders</span> ...it," Holbrooke told the panel.

**<insert specific link here>**

**CMR key to control nuclear weapons usage and avert nuclear war**
Walter **Slocombe,** partner, **Caplin and Drysdale** Attorneys, Chair, International Advisory Board of the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces, U.S. Under Secretary of Defense for Policy under Clinton, April 20**06**. DCAF Policy Paper No. 12, Democratic Control of Nuclear Weapons, p. http://www.dcaf.ch/_docs/pp12_democratic_civilian_control_nuclear_weapons.pdf
The mechanisms for democratic, constitutional ...for meaningful public understanding and discussion.


===Aliens Politics=== 
**Obama is planning to disclose alien existence by the end of the year**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Socyberty</span>__**, 3/10/20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">10</span>,__** “Alien Disclosure Imminent in 2010-2011: Obama to Lead The Way?,” __<span style="color: blue;">http://socyberty.com/paranormal/alien-disclosure-imminent-in-2010-2011-obama-to-lead-the-way/2/</span>__ vkoneru 
Are the world’s government getting ready ...a threat to the Earth though. 

**Political capital is key**
**__Lowe 9__** (Larry, Veteran UFO investigator and respected journalist, “UFO: The race to disclosure” http://www.bibliotecapleyades.net/disclosure/disclosure03.htm) 
It's hard to handicap the Obama ...be <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">in favor of UFO disclosure</span>. 

**Lack of disclosure allows the military to control our interactions with aliens, which causes a closed minded view that makes the destruction of Earth inevitable**
Steven **__Greer__**, Emergency physician and former chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Caldwell Memorial Hospital. He has met with and provided briefings for senior members of government, military and intelligence operations in the United States and around the world, including senior CIA officials, Joint Chiefs of Staff, White House staff, senior members of Congress and congressional committees, senior United Nations leadership and diplomats, senior military officials in the United Kingdom and Europe and cabinet-level staff members of the Japanese government, among others. April 7th 20**__02__** “Disclosure: Implications For The Environment, World Peace, World Poverty And The Human Future”, UFO Casebook, http://www.ufocasebook.com/disclosureproject.html) 
Testimony, corroborated by multiple military ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the stuff wars are made of</span>. 

**Disclosure creates a sense of global interconnectedness that solves everything**
Stephen **__Greer__**, Emergency physician and former chairman of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Caldwell Memorial Hospital. He has met with and provided briefings for senior members of government, military and intelligence operations in the United States and around the world, including senior CIA officials, Joint Chiefs of Staff, White House staff, senior members of Congress and congressional committees, senior United Nations leadership and diplomats, senior military officials in the United Kingdom and Europe and cabinet-level staff members of the Japanese government, among others, 20**__09__**, “Implications of Extraterrestrial Disclosure”, http://www.bluealien.net/aliens-and-ufos/implications-of-extraterrestrial-disclosure
let us look at other immediate implications:

===Gates DA=== 
====1NC==== 
**A. Gates is winning the next round of defense cuts but it’s tough—he needs all the political capital he can get**
__**Newsweek**__, John Barry, national security correspondent, 8/17/__**10**__, “Why Gates Seems Set on a 2011 Departure”, http://www.newsweek.com/2010/08/17/why-gates-seems-set-on-a-2011-departure.html {jchen}
Each defense budget takes so long ...Gates's successor in the preelection frenzy.

**B. Plan means Gates will have to force a Futenma policy change back on the agenda—drains his political capital and he can’t delegate it**
Peter __**Ennis**__, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 7/29/__**10**__, “Simmering Okinawa Problem Could Boil Over”, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/us-japan-relations/ {jchen}
Unfortunately, a shift in US ...better spent in the continental US.

**C. Defense cuts key to fund development of Littoral Combat Ships**
__**Newsweek**__, John Barry and Evan Thomas, national security correspondent, Editor, 9/12/__**10**__, “A War Within”, http://www.newsweek.com/2010/09/12/what-gates-plans-to-do-before-he-leaves-office.html {jchen}
Part of what Gates is doing ...seems determined to force those choices.

**D. Littoral combat ships key to maintain naval supremacy—flexible deployment and ability to sweep mines**
Max __**Boot**__, senior fellow in national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, columnist for LA Times, regular contributor to the New York Times, Washington Post, Foreign Affairs, editor of Wall Street Journal, October 20__**06,**__ The New Atlantis, “The Paradox of Military Technology”, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/the-paradox-of-military-technology{jchen}
Mines, which can be scattered ...“low-tech” attacks.

**E. Naval supremacy’s key to deter and stop great power war**
James T. __**Conway**__, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, and Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, October 20__**07**__, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,”, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)
Deter major power war. No ...bases and running complex computer networks.

====2NC Link==== 
**Gates’ taken a hardline stance on keeping Futenma—DoD shutting down the base is a massive flip flop**
Peter __**Ennis**__, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 7/29/__**10**__, “Simmering Okinawa Problem Could Boil Over”, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/us-japan-relations/ {jchen}
Another factor influencing the continuing hard ...over Okinawa could weaken that message.

**And, the blame goes straight to Gates—subofficials are following explicit orders on Okinawa they know will fail**
Peter __**Ennis**__, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 7/29/__**10**__, “Simmering Okinawa Problem Could Boil Over”, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/us-japan-relations/ {jchen}
One way or another, the ...try to manage an unmanageable situation.

====2NC Political Capital Key==== 
**<span style="font-size: 110%;">Gates’ political capital key to get budget cuts </span>**
<span style="font-size: 110%;">John Guardiano, served as a Marine in Iraq and once worked on the Army's Future Combat Systems Program, 8/18/10, “Why Gates is Overrated”, http://www.frumforum.com/why-gates-is-overrated{jchen}</span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">Still, Gates has used his ...and deleterious strategic and tactical consequences.</span>


==Impact Turn== 
===Russia Relations Bad=== 
====1NC Defense==== 
**US-Russian war won’t go nuclear – US strike eliminates Russia’s entire arsenal – literally 0% chance of a Russian nuke hitting the US.**
Keir A.**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> Lieber</span>__**, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame; **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">and</span>__** Daryl G. **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Press</span>__**, author of Calculating Credibility: How Leaders Assess Military Threats, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">06</span>__**, “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy,” pp. 45-48 vkoneru
Even <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">as the U</span>nited <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">S</span>tates’ nuclear ...attack even more likely to succeed.)

====1NC Prolif==== 
**A boost in US-Russian relations allow Russia to increase wildfire proliferation**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Lunev</span>__**, 20**__0<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2</span>__** (Stanislav, Colonel, former Russian spy, consultant for the FBI and CIA, “America’s worst foes are Moscow’s best friends,” Newsmax, August 20, 2002, http://archive.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2002/8/19/164404.shtml)
What kind of cooperation can we ..."axis of evil" nations.

**Proliferation causes extinction**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Utgoff,</span>__** 20**__0<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">2</span>__** (Victor, Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of Institute for Defense Analysis, Summer, “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions”, Survival, p.87-90.)
The war between Iran and Iraq ...dead cities or even <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">whole nations.</span>

====1NC Russia-China Axis==== 
**A hard line policy towards Russia is key to sustain relations with china and break up the Russia-China axis**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Carpenter</span>__**, 200**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">1</span>__** (Ted Galen, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute “Bush Tries to Drive a Wedge Between Russia and China”, CATO Institute, August 3, 2001, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=3935)
But there is another important factor ...scheme will have to be abandoned.

**China-Russia relations causes invasion of Taiwan**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Brookes</span>__**, 200**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">5</span>__** (Peter, Senior Fellow, National Security Affairs and Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, congressionally-appointed member of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, advisory committee of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism, Adjunct Professor at the National Defense University, Contributing Editor for Armed Forces Journal magazine, Bush administration as the Deputy Assistant Defense Secretary for Asian and Pacific Affairs, Professional Staff Member with the House Committee on International Relations, served with the CIA, the State Department at the United Nations, private sector defense and intelligence industry, military veteran - retired reserve Commander, doctoral candidate at Georgetown University, graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy (bachelor's degree in engineering); the Defense Language Institute (diploma in Russian); the Naval War College (diploma); and the Johns Hopkins University (master's degree in government), Navy League of New York's Frank Knox Media Award, Joint Service Commendation Medal; Navy Commendation Medal (3 awards); Navy Achievement Medal; several naval and joint unit awards; the Defense Language Institute's Kellogg Award; the Joint Chiefs of Staff service badge; and Naval Aviation Observer wings, “An Alarming Alliance: Sino-Russian Ties Tightening,” August 2005, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2005/08/An-Alarming-Alliance-Sino-Russian-Ties-Tightening)
This week will see an ominous .... friends and allies in Asia.

**Extinction**
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Straits Times, 2k</span>__** (Singapore, June, 25, 2000, No one gains in war over Taiwan, l/n)
THE DOOMSDAY SCENARIO -<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">THE high...</span>China puts sovereignty above everything else.

===De-Dev=== 
====1NC==== 
**1.Economic collapse doesn’t cause war – only rich nations can fight and shocks don’t cause lash out**
Morris **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Miller</span>__**, economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank, Winter, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, Vol. 25, Iss. 4, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">2000</span>__** “Poverty as a cause of wars?” p. Proquest
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The financing required to engage in ...</span>form of violence to abort another.)

**2. Growth is unsustainable and makes human extinction inevitable**
Glen **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Barry, PhD in Land Resources</span>__**, from UW-Madison and President and Founder of Ecological Internet, 20**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">08</span>__**, “Economic Collapse and Global Ecology,” Jan. 14, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Given</span> widespread <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">failure to pursue policies ...</span>in solar energy and environmental restoration.

====2NC - No War==== 
**Only k waves match the data – growth causes war, downturns prevent it**
**__Chase-Dunn, and Podobnik__**, 19**__99__** (Christopher, Director of the Institute for Research on World-Systems, and Bruce, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Lewis and Clark College,, The Future of Global Conflict, ed. Bornschier and Chase-Dunn, pg 43)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">While the onset of a period ...</span>; Chase-Dunn and O'Reilly 1989).

**Economic decline forces leaders to seek peace – they must divert resources away from continued war fighting and rebuild domestically**
**__Bennett and Nordstrom__** 20**__00__** (D. Scott and Timothy, February Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State. “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, Ebsco.) 
In this analysis, we focus ...can account for substitutability between them.

====2NC - Collapse Good==== 
**Collapse must come now - even though dieback is inevitable, preservation of the biosphere means human life can continue**
**__Barry__**, 20**__0__****__8__** (Glen, PhD in Land Resources from UW-Madison and President and Founder of Ecological Internet, “Economic Collapse and Global Ecology,” Jan. 14, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm)
Bright greens take the continued existence ...<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a final, fatal death swoon.</span>

====2NC - Mindset Shift==== 
**Collapse now creates a mindset shift towards small local civilizations**
**__Lewis 2k__** - Ph.D. University of Colorado at Boulder (Chris H, “The Paradox of Global Development and the Necessary Collapse of Global Industrial Civilization” http://www.cross-x.com/archives/LewisParadox.pdf)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">With the collapse of global industrial ...</span>will themselves face collapse and ruin.

====2NC - Growth Unsistainable==== 
**Economic growth is unsustainable – finite resources, overpopulation, rainforest depletion and biodiversity loss**
**__Robertshaw__**, 20**__09__** (Gary, Founder of The Green Providers Directory, “Realizing the finite availability of fossil fuels is fundamental to climate change talk,” January 5, http://www.thegoodhuman.com/2009/01/05/realizing-the-finite-availability-of-fossil-fuels-adds-a-new-twist-to-climate-change-talk/)
The debate surrounding the extent to ...than the world can replace them.

====Impact - Water Wars==== 
**Continued growth and consumption guarantees violent conflicts over clean water.**
**__Speth__**, 20**__08__**, Rhodes Scholar @ Oxford University, Chairman of Council on Environmental Quality for Executive Office, Founder of World Recourses Institute (Think-Tank), Led the Western Hemisphere Dialogue on Environment and Development, Administrator of United Nations Development Program, Dean of Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Leader of the President’s Task Force on Global Recourses and the Environment, Holds multiple awards—National Wildlife Federation’s Recourse Defense Award and Lifetime Achievement Award of Environmental Law Institute, and Blue Planet Prize [James, “The Bridge at the Edge of the World”)
It has been said that there ...told the New York Times in 2006. 48

**Water wars go nuclear**
**__Weiner__**, Prof. **Princeton, ‘****__90__** The Next 100 Years p.270
If we do not destroy ourselves ...the world has stockpiled since Trinity.












[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]