[[toc]]
If there are any questions or if you want the cites to something e-mail Max at <[[mailto:MillardSouthBoyz@gmail.com|MillardSouthBoyz@gmail.com]]>
=Affirmative= 
====Bokononism==== 

The narratives can be found within cat's cradle but are mostly spread throughout the book so I'll just post what we use here to avoid confusion...

<span style="margin-bottom: 0.2in;">Call me Jonah. My parents did, or nearly did. They called me John. Jonah-John-if I had been a Sam, I would have been a Jonah still-not because I have been unlucky for others, but because somebody or something has compelled me to be certain places at certain times, without fail. Conveyances and motives, both conventional and bizarre, have been provided. And, according to plan, at each appointed second, at each appointed place this Jonah was there. Listen: When I was a younger man-two wives ago, 250,000 cigarettes ago, 3,000 quarts of booze ago. . .<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When I was a much younger man,</span> I began to collect material for a book to be called The Day the World Ended. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The book was to be factual.</span> The book was to be an account of what <span style="font-size: 8pt;">important</span> Americans had done <span style="font-size: 8pt;">on</span> the day when the <span style="font-size: 8pt;">first</span> atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Japan. It was to be a Christian book. </span>I was a Christian then. I am a Bokononist now. I would have been a Bokononist then, if there had been anyone to teach me the bittersweet lies of Bokonon.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But Bokononism was unknown beyond the gravel beaches and coral knives that ring this little island in the Caribbean Sea, the Republic of San Lorenzo. We Bokononists believe that humanity is organized into teams, teams that do God's Will without ever discovering what they are doing. Such a team is called a karass by Bokonon, and the instrument, the kan-kan, that brought me into my own particular karass was the book I never finished, the book to be called The Day the World Ended. If you find your life tangled up with somebody else's life for no very logical reasons," writes Bokonon, "that person may be a member of your karass." At another point in The Books of</span> Bokonon<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he </span>tells us<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>"Man created the checkerboard; God created the karass."<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By that he means that</span> a karass ignores national, institutional, occupational, familial, and class boundaries. It is as free-form as an <span style="font-size: 8pt;">amoeba Nowhere does Bokonon warn against a person's trying to discover the limits of his karass and the nature of the work God Almighty has had it do</span>. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bokonon simply observes that such investigations are bound to be incomplete. In the autobiographical section of The Books of Bokonon he writes a parable on the folly of pretending to discover, to understand:</span> I once knew a<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n Episcopalian</span> lady in <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Newport,</span> Rhode Island, who <span style="font-size: 8pt;">asked me to design and build a doghouse for her Great Dane. The lady</span> claimed to understand God and His Ways of Working perfectly. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">She could not understand why anyone should be puzzled about what had been or about what was going to be. And yet, when I showed her a blueprint of the doghouse I proposed to build, she said to me, "I'm sorry, but I never could read one of those things.""Give it to your husband or your minister to pass on to God," I said, "and, when God finds a minute, I'm sure he'll explain this doghouse of mine in a way that even you can understand." She fired me. I shall never forget her. She believed that God liked people in sailboats much better than He liked people in motorboats. </span>She could not bear to look at a worm. When she saw a worm, she screamed. She was a fool, and so am I, and so is anyone who thinks he sees what God is Doing, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[writes Bokonon]. Be that as it may, I intend in this book to include as many members of my karass as possible, and I mean to examine all strong hints as to what on Earth we, collectively, have been up to. I do not intend that this book be a tract on behalf of Bokononism. I should like to offer a Bokononist warning about it, however.</span>The first sentence in The Books of Bokonon is this: "All of the true things I am about to tell you are shameless lies." My Bokononist warning in this: Anyone unable to understand how a useful religion can be founded on lies will not understand this book either. So be it.</span>


KURT VONNEGUT, 47 YEARS AGO, CONFRONTED THE CURRENT SOCIOPOLITICAL WORLD AND ALL OF ITS RATIONALITY WITHIN THE PAGES OF CATS CRADLE. HE STARED AT THE WORLD AND LAUGHED IN ITS FACE, UNCOVERING THE DARK PRESENCE OF OURSELVES, RELIGION, WAR, AND THE WESTERN WORLD. JONAH, AFTER DISCOVERING BOKONONISM, THE ANTI-RELIGION-RELIGION, BECOMES A PROPHET OF ABSURDITY – THE BRINGER OF UNTRUTH. IN THIS SENSE, CAT'S CRADLE BECOMES THE ANTI-TEXT. THE ANTI-TEXT ACTS IN OPPOSITION OF THE “TEXT”, OF MODERN WESTERN THOUGHT AND ACTIONS THAT BREED TRUTH, RELIGION, AND WAR. THE DEBATE COMMUNITY LOOKS TOWARDS THE HOLY ALTAR THAT IS THE RESOLUTION IN AN ATTEMPT TO UNDERSTAND WAR AND THE WORLD AROUND US, A “PLATINUM BLOND JESUS” – A SALVATION PROMISING NIHILIST . INSTEAD OF AFTERLIFE, HOWEVER, THE RESOLUTION PROMISES A STARTING POINT FOR UNDERSTANDING THE WORLD AT LARGE. BUT THIS UNDERSTANDING WILL NOT BE FOUND WITHIN THE TEXT; ONLY IN THE ANTI-TEXT CAN WE UNCOVER THE ACTUAL ABSURDITY THAT HAS BECOME EMBEDDED WITHIN OUR WORLD AND OUR DISCUSSIONS AND COMBAT THE TRUTH THAT PERPETUATES WAR AND ALLOWS FOR UNDERSTANDING OF THE FUNCTIONING OF WORLD. OR PERHAPS NOTHING AT ALL...


Minguez, Daniel. (Occidental College Scholar. Cat's Cradle: The Apocalypse of Human Thought. Pg 5-14. 2009)


//Part 1 Cat’s Cradle: ...<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;">reader of a reliance upon that suggestion as well.</span>//


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I went to Frank's house in San Lorenzo's one taxicab. We passed through scenes of hideous want. We climbed the slope of Mount McCabe. The air grew cooler. There was mist. Frank's house had once been the home of Nestor Aamons, father of Mona, architect of the House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle. Aamons had designed it. It straddled a waterfall; had a terrace cantilevered out into the mist rising from the fall. It was a cunning lattice of very light steel posts and beams. The interstices of the lattice were variously open, chinked with native stone, glazed, or curtained by sheets of canvas. The effect of the house was not so much to enclose as to announce that a man had been whimsically busy there. A servant greeted me politely and told me that Frank wasn't home yet. Frank was expected at any moment. Frank had left orders to the effect that I was to be made happy and comfortable, and that I was to stay for supper and the night. The servant, who introduced himself as Stanley, was the first plump San Lorenzan I had seen. Stanley led me to my room; led me around the heart of the house, down a staircase of living stone, a staircase sheltered or exposed by steel-framed rectangles at random. My bed was a foam-rubber slab on a stone shelf, a shelf of living stone. The walls of my chamber were canvas. Stanley demonstrated how I might roll them up or down, as I pleased. I asked Stanley if anybody else was home, and he told me that only Newt was. Newt, he said, was out on the cantilevered terrace, painting a picture. Angela, he said, had gone sightseeing to the House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle. </span>I went out onto the giddy terrace that straddled the waterfall and found little Newt asleep in a yellow butterfly chair. The painting on which Newt had been working was<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> set on an easel next to the aluminum railing. The painting was framed in a misty view of sky, sea, and valley. Newt's painting was </span>small and black and warty. It consisted of scratches made in a black, gummy impasto. The scratches formed a sort of spider's web, and I wondered if they might not be the sticky nets of human futility hung up on a moonless night to dry. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I did not wake up the midget who had made this dreadful thing. I smoked, listening to imagined voices in the water sounds. What awakened little Newt was an explosion far away below. It caromed up the valley and went to God. It was a cannon on the water front of Bolivar, Frank's major-domo told me. It was fired every day at five. </span>Little Newt stirred. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">While still half-snoozing, he put his black, painty hands to his mouth and chin, leaving black smears there. He rubbed his eyes and made black smears around them, too.</span> "Hello," he said to me, sleepily. "Hello," I said. "I like your painting."<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"You see what it is?" "I suppose it means something different to everyone who sees it." </span>"It's a cat's cradle." <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Aha," I said. "Very good. </span>The scratches are string<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Right?" </span>"One of the oldest games there is, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">cat's cradle. Even the Eskimos know." "You don't say." </span>"For maybe a hundred thousand years or more, grownups have been waving of string in their children's faces." "<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Um</span>." <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Newt remained curled in the chair. He held out his painty hands as though a cat's cradle were strung between them. </span>"No wonder kids grow up crazy. A cat's cradle is nothing but a bunch of X's between somebody's hands, and little kids look and look and look at all those X's.." "And?" "No damn cat, and no damn cradle."


WE AFFIRM THE ANTI-TEXT: A REJECTION AND ACT OF RESISTANCE TO THE VERY TEXT, OR SCRIPTED TRUTH, THAT HAS BECOME A STARTING POINT FOR UNDERSTANDING THE WORLD AND OURSELVES. THIS YEAR'S TEXT, RESOLVED: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE ITS MILITARY AND/OR POLICE PRESENCE IN ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING: SOUTH KOREA, JAPAN, AFGHANISTAN, KUWAIT, IRAQ, TURKEY, PRESENTS A MEANS BY WHICH WE CAN CONFRONT WAR, SOVEREIGNTY, OR MILITARISM WITHIN OUR DEBATE SPACE BUT FAILS TO CONFRONT ITS OWN WARLIKE FASCISM AND DESTRUCTION. THE ANTI-TEXT TAKES US NOT ONLY WHERE THE TEXT DOES NOT, BUT ALLOWS US TO DISSOLVE RATIONAL SOCIETY AND ITS PRESENCE WITHIN OURSELVES, THE WORLD, AND THE DEBATE COMMUNITY – A MOMENT WHERE HUMAN THOUGHT AND ITS PERPETUATION OF TRUTH AND VIOLENCE CAN BE CONFRONTED WITH ITS TRUE SELF AND ITS ABSURDITY


Minguez, Daniel. (Occidental College Scholar. Cat's Cradle: The Apocalypse of Human Thought. Pg 5-14. 2009)


//Kurt Vonnegut’s Cat’s Cradle: ....__<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">follower to wave the banner of truth.</span>__//


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">"Papa" Monzano and his merciless disease were in a bed that was made of a golden dinghy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—tiller, painter, oarlocks and all, all gilt. His bed was the lifeboat of Bokonon's old schooner</span>,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the _Lady's Slipper_; it was the lifeboat of the ship that had brought Bokonon and Corporal McCabe to San Lorenzo so long ago. The walls of the room were white. But "Papa" radiated pain so hot and bright that the walls seemed bathed in angry red. He was stripped from the waist up, and, his glistening belly wall was knotted. His belly shivered like a luffing sail. </span>Around his neck hung a chain with a cylinder the size of a rifle cartridge for a pendant. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I supposed that the cylinder contained some magic charm. I was mistaken.</span> It contained a splinter of ice-nine. "<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Papa" could hardly speak. His teeth chattered and his breathing was beyond control. "Papa's" agonized head was at the bow of the dinghy, bent back. Mona's xylophone was near the bed. She had apparently tried to soothe "Papa" with music the previous evening. "'Papa'?" whispered Frank. "Good-bye," "Papa" gasped. His eyes were bugging, sightless. "I brought a friend." "Good-bye." "He's going to be the next President of San Lorenzo. He'll be a much better President than I could be." "Ice!" "Papa" whimpered. "He asks for ice," said Von Koenigswald. "When we bring it, he does not want it." "Papa" rolled his eyes. He relaxed his neck, took the weight of his body from the crown of his head. And then he arched his neck again. "Does not matter," he said, "who is President of . . ." He did not finish. I finished for him. "San Lorenzo?" "San Lorenzo," he agreed. He managed a crooked smile. "Good luck!" he croaked. "Thank you, sir," I said. "Doesn't matter! Bokonon. Get Bokonon." I attempted a sophisticated reply to this last. I remembered that, for the joy of the people, Bokonon was always to be chased, was never to be caught. "I will get him." "Tell him . . ." I leaned closer, in order to hear the message from "Papa" to Bokonon. "Tell him I am sorry I did not kill him," said "Papa." "I will." "_You_ kill him." "Yessir." "Papa" gained control enough of his voice to make it commanding. "I mean _really!_" I said nothing to that. I was not eager to kill anyone. "He teaches the people lies and lies and lies. Kill him and teach the people truth." "Yessir." "You and Hoenikker, you teach them science." "Yessir, we will," I promised. "Science is magic that _works_." He fell silent, relaxed, closed his eyes. And then he whispered, "Last rites." Von Koenigswald called Dr. Vox Humana in. Dr. Humana took his tranquilized chicken out of the hatbox, preparing to administer Christian last rites as he understood them. "Papa" opened one eye. "Not you," he sneered at Dr. Humana. "Get out!" "Sir?" asked Dr. Humana. "I am a member of the Bokononist faith," "Papa" wheezed. "Get out, you stinking Christian." So I was privileged to see the last rites of the Bokononist faith. We made an effort to find someone among the soldiers and the household staff who would admit that he knew the rites and would give them to "Papa." We got no volunteers. That was hardly surprising, with a hook and an oubliette so near. So Dr. von Koenigswald said that he would have a go at the job. He had never administered the rites before, but he had seen Julian Castle do it hundreds of times. "Are you a Bokononist?" I asked him. "I agree with one Bokononist idea. I agree that all religions, including Bokononism, are nothing but lies." "Will this bother you as a scientist," I inquired, "to go through a ritual like this?" "I am a very bad scientist. I will do anything to make a human being feel better, even if it's unscientific. No scientist worthy of the name could say such a thing." And he climbed into the golden boat with "Papa." He sat in the stern. Cramped quarters obliged him to have the golden tiller under one arm. He wore sandals without socks, and he took these off. And then he rolled back the covers at the foot of the bed, exposing "Papa's" bare feet. He put the soles of his feet against "Papa's" feet, assuming the classical position for _boko-maru_. But "Papa" didn't die and go to heaven--not then. </span>As it happened--"As it was supposed_to happen," Bokonon would say-- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">albatross meat disagreed with me so violently that I was ill the moment I'd choked the first piece down. I was compelled to canter down the stone spiral staircase in search of a bathroom. I availed myself of one adjacent to "Papa's" suite.</span> When I shuffled out, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">somewhat relieved,</span> I was met by Dr. Schlichter von Koenigswald, who was bounding from "Papa's" bedroom. He had a wild look, and he took me by the arms and he cried, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"What is it? </span>What was it he had hanging around his neck?" <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"I beg your pardon?" "He took it! </span>Whatever was in that cylinder, 'Papa' took--and now he's dead<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." I remembered the cylinder "Papa" had hung around his neck, and I made an obvious guess as to its contents. "Cyanide?" "Cyanide? Cyanide turns a man to cement in a second?" "Cement?" "Marble! Iron! I have never seen such a rigid corpse before. Strike it anywhere and you get a note like a marimba! Come look!" Von </span>Koenigswald hustled me into "Papa's" bedroom. In bed,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the golden dinghy,</span> was a hideous thing to see. "Papa" was dead, but his was not a corpse to which one could say, "At rest at last." 'Papa's" head was bent back as far as it would go.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">His weight rested on the crown of his head and the soles of his feet, with the rest of his body forming a bridge whose arch thrust toward the ceiling. He was shaped like an andiron. That he had died of the contents of the cylinder around his neck was obvious. </span>One hand held the cylinder and the cylinder was uncapped. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">And the thumb and index finger of the other hand, as though having just released a little pinch of something, were stuck between his teeth. Dr. von Koenigswald slipped the tholepin of an oarlock from its socket in the gunwale of the gilded dinghy. He tapped "Papa" on his belly with the steel oarlock, and "Papa" really did make a sound like a marimba. And</span>"Papa's" lips and nostrils and eyeballs were glazed with a blue-white frost. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such a syndrome is no novelty now, God knows. But it certainly was then. "Papa" Monzano was the first man in history to die of ice-nine. I record that fact for whatever it may be worth. "Write it all down," Bokonon tells us. Dr. von Koenigswald, the humanitarian with the terrible deficit of Auschwitz in his kindliness account, was the second to die of _ice-nine_. He was talking about rigor mortis, a subject I had introduced. "Rigor mortis does not set in in seconds," he declared. "I turned my back to 'Papa' for just a moment. He was raving . . ." "What about?" I asked. "Pain, ice, Mona--everything. And then</span> 'Papa' said, 'Now I will destroy the whole world.'" <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"What did he mean by that?"</span> "It's what Bokononists always say when they are about to commit suicide." <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Von Koenigswald went to a basin of water, meaning to wash his hands. </span>"When I turned to look at him," <span style="font-size: 8pt;">he told me, his hands poised over the water,</span> "he was dead--as hard as a statue, just as you see him.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I brushed my fingers over his lips. They looked so peculiar." He put his hands into the water. "What chemical could possibly . . ."The question trailed off. Von Koenigswald raised his hands, and the </span>water in the basin <span style="font-size: 8pt;">came with them. It</span>was no longer water, but a hemisphere of ice-nine. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Von</span> Koenigswald touched the tip of his tongue to the blue-white mystery. Frost bloomed on his lips. He froze solid, tottered, and crashed. The blue-white hemisphere shattered. Chunks skittered over the floor.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I went to the door and bawled for help. Soldiers and servants came running. I ordered them to bring Frank and Newt and Angela to "Papa's" room at once. At last I had seen _ice-nine!_...Our work in "Papa's" bedroom was done at last. But the bodies still had to be carried to the funeral pyre. We decided that this should be done with pomp, that we should put it off until the ceremonies in honor of the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy were over. The last thing we did was stand Von Koenigswald on his feet in order to decontaminate the place where he had been lying. And then we hid him, standing up, in "Papa's" clothes closet. I'm not quite sure why we hid him</span>.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I think it must have been to simplify the tableau. As for Newt's and Angela's and Frank's tale of how they divided up the world's supply of _ice-nine_ on Christmas Eve--it petered out when they got to details of the crime itself. The Hoenikkers couldn't remember that anyone said anything to justify their taking _ice-nine_ as personal property. They talked about what _ice-nine_ was, recalling the old man's brain-stretchers, but there was no talk of morals. "Who did the dividing?" I inquired. So thoroughly had the three Hoenikkers obliterated their memories of the incident that it was difficult for them to give me even that fundamental detail. "It wasn't Newt," said Angela at last. "I'm sure of ihat." "It was either you or me," mused Frank, thinking hard. "You got the three Mason jars off the kitchen shelf," said Angela. "It wasn't until the next day that we got the three little Thermos jugs." "That's right," Frank agreed. "And then you took an ice pick and chipped up the _ice-nine_ in the saucepan." "That's right," said Angela. "I did. And then somebody brought tweezers from the bathroom." Newt raised his little hand. "I did." Angela and Newt were amazed, remembering how enterprising little Newt had been. "I was the one who picked up the chips and put them in the Mason jars," Newt recounted. He didn't bother to hide the swagger he must have felt. "What did you people do with the dog?" I asked limply. "We put him in the oven," Frank told me. "It was the only thing to do." </span>"History!" writes Bokonon. "Read it and weep!" <span style="font-size: 8pt;">There were many, many secrets that day. Busy, busy, busy. I supposed that the ceremonies might as well begin, and I told Frank to suggest to Ambassador Horlick Minton that he deliver his speech. </span>Ambassador Minton <span style="font-size: 8pt;">went to the seaward parapet with his memorial wreath still in its case. And he </span>delivered an amazing speech in honor of the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">He dignified the dead, their country, and the life that was over for them by saying the "Hundred Martyrs to Democracy" in island dialect. That fragment of dialect was graceful and easy on his lips. The rest of his speech was in American English. He had a written speech with him--fustian and bombast, I imagine. But, when he found he was going to speak to so few, and to fellow Americans for the most part, he put the formal speech away. A light sea wind ruffled his thinning hair. "I am about to do a very unambassadorial thing," he declared. "I am about to tell you what I really feel." Perhaps Minton had inhaled too much acetone, or perhaps he had an inkling of what was about to happen to everybody but me. At any rate, it was a strikingly Bokononist speech he gave. </span>"We are gathered here,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> friends,</span>"<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he said,</span> "to honor<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> _lo Hoon-yera Moratoorz tut Zamoo-cratz-ya</span>_, children<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> dead, all dead, all </span>murdered in war. It is customary on days like this to call such lost children men. I am unable to call them men for this simple reason: that in the same war in which <span style="font-size: 8pt;">_lo Hoon-yera Mora-toorz tut Zamoo cratz-ya_ </span>died, my own son died. "My soul insists that I mourn not a man but a child. "I do not say that children at war do not die like men,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> if they have to die. To their everlasting honor and our everlasting shame they do die like men, thus making possible the manly jubilation of patriotic holidays. "But they are murdered children all the same. "And I propose to you that if we are to pay our sincere respects to the hundred lost children of San Lorenzo, that we might best spend the day despising what killed them; which is to say, the stupidity and viciousness of all mankind. </span>"Perhaps, when we remember wars, we should take off our clothes and paint ourselves blue and go on all fours all day long and grunt like pigs. That would surely be more appropriate than noble oratory and shows of flags and well-oiled guns. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"I do not mean to be ungrateful for the fine, martial show we are about to see--and a thrilling show it really will be . . ." He looked each of us in the eye, and then he commented very softly, throwing it away, "And hooray say I for thrilling shows." We had to strain our ears to hear what Minton said next. "But if today is really in honor of a hundred children murdered in war," he said, "is today a day for a thrilling show? "The answer is yes, on one condition: that we, the celebrants, are working consciously and tirelessly to reduce the stupidity and viciousness of ourselves and of all mankind." He unsnapped the catches on his wreath case. "See what I have brought?" he asked us. He opened the case and showed us the scarlet lining and the golden wreath. The wreath was made of wire and artificial laurel leaves, and the whole was sprayed with radiator paint. The wreath was spanned by a cream colored silk ribbon on which was printed, "PRO PATRIA." Minton now recited a poem from Edgar Lee Masters' the _Spoon River Anthology_, a poem that must have been incomprehensible to the San Lorenzans in the audience--and to H. Lowe Crosby and his Hazel, too, for that matter, and to Angela and Frank. I was the first fruits of the battle of Missionary Ridge. When I felt the bullet enter my heart I wished I had staid at home and gone to jail For stealing the hogs of Curl Trenary, Instead of running away and joining the army. Rather a thousand times the county jail Than to lie under this marble figure with wings, And this granite pedestal Bearing the words, "_Pro Patria_." What do they mean, anyway? "What do they mean, anyway?" echoed Ambassador Horlick Minton. "They mean, 'For one's country.'" And he threw away another line. "Any country at all," he murmured. "This wreath I bring is a gift from the people of one country to the people of another. Never mind which countries. Think of people . . . "And children murdered in war. "And any country at </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">all. "Think of peace. "Think of brotherly love. "Think of plenty. "Think of what paradise, this world would be if men were kind and wise. "As stupid and vicious as men are, this is a lovely day," said Ambassador Horlick Minton. "I, in my own heart and as a representative of the peace-loving people of the United States of America, Pity _lo Hoon-yera Mora-toorz tut Zamoo- cratz-ya_ for being dead on this fine day." And he sailed the wreath off the parapet. There was a hum in the air. </span>The six planes of the San Lorenzan Air Force were coming, skimming my lukewarm sea. They were going to shoot the effigies of what H. Lowe Crosby had called "practically every enemy that freedom ever had." <span style="font-size: 8pt;">We went to the seaward parapet to see the show. The planes were no larger than grains of black pepper. We were able to spot them because one, as it happened, was trailing smoke. </span>We supposed that the smoke was part of the show. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I stood next to H. Lowe Crosby, who, as it happened, was alternately eating albatross and drinking native rum. He exhaled fumes of model airplane cement between lips glistening with albatross fat. My recent nausea returned. I withdrew to the landward parapet alone, gulping air. There were sixty feet of old stone pavement between me and all the rest.</span> I saw that the planes would be coming in low,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> below the footings of the castle, and that I would miss the show. But nausea made me incurious. I turned my head in the direction of their now snarling approach. Just as their guns began to hammer,</span> one plane, the one that had been trailing smoke, suddenly appeared<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, belly up, </span>in flames. It <span style="font-size: 8pt;">dropped from my line of sight again and </span>crashed <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at once into the cliff below the castle. </span>Its bombs and fuel exploded.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The surviving planes went booming on, their racket thinning down to a mosquito hum. And then there was the sound of a rockslide--and one great tower of "Papa's" castle, undermined, crashed down to the sea. The people on the seaward parapet looked in astonishment at the empty socket where the tower had stood. Then I could hear rockslides of all sizes in a conversation that was almost orchestral. The conversation went very fast, and new voices entered in. They were the voices of the castle's timbers lamenting that their burdens were becoming too great. And then </span>a crack crossed the battlement like lightning, ten feet from my curling toes. It separated me from my fellow men.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The castle groaned and wept aloud. The others comprehended their peril. They, along with tons of masonry, were about to lurch out and down. Although the crack was only a foot wide, people began to cross it with heroic leaps. Only my complacent Mona crossed the crack with a simple step. </span>The crack gnashed shut; opened wide<span style="font-size: 8pt;">r</span>, leeringly. Still trapped on the canted deathtrap were H. Lowe Crosby and his Hazel and Ambassador <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Horlick</span> Minton and his Claire. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Philip Castle and Frank and I reached across the abyss to haul the Crosbys to safety. Our arms were now extended imploringly to the Mintons. Their expressions were bland. I can only guess what was going through their minds. My guess is that they were thinking of dignity, of emotional proportion above all else. Panic was not their style. I doubt that suicide was their style either. But their good manners killed them, for the doomed crescent of castle now moved away from us like an ocean liner moving away from a dock. The image of a voyage seems to have occurred to the voyaging Mintons, too, for they waved to us with wan amiability. </span>They held hands. They faced the sea. Out they went; then down they went in a cataclysmic rush, were gone!</span>


ALAS, DEBATE COMMUNITY; WE ARE AMIDST MT MCCABE – THE LOCATION THAT MARKS THE END OF HUMAN STUPIDITY AND THE RELIANCE UPON THE TEXT AS A MEANS OF UNDERSTANDING THE WORLD. AS THE TIMER DRAWS TOWARDS THE END OF THE 1AC, SO DOES THE END OF VONNEGUT'S SATIRICAL WORLD. ICE NINE HAS CREATED A STATE OF PARALYSIS AND HAS KILLED ALL BUT FEW. OUR PROPHET JONAH, FACED WITH THE DEATH OF HIS LOVER AND HIS FELLOW HUMAN RACE, BECOMES A MONUMENT OF RESISTANCE AND MARKS THE END OF HUMAN THOUGHT AND ITS QUEST FOR TRUTH BY WASTING AWAY INTO OBLIVION


Minguez, Daniel. (Occidental College Scholar. Cat's Cradle: The Apocalypse of Human Thought. Pg 5-14. 2009)


//Part 4: The Cataclysmic Finale... <span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">__as any text it sought to render so.__</span>//



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The ragged rim of </span>oblivion was now inches from my<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> curling</span> toes.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I looked down. My lukewarm sea had swallowed all. </span>A lazy curtain of dust was wafting out to sea, the only trace of all that fell.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The palace, its massive, seaward mask now gone, greeted the north with a leper's smile, snaggle-toothed and bristly. The bristles were the splintered ends of timbers. Immediately below me a large chamber had been laid open. The floor of that chamber, unsupported, stabbed out into space like a diving platform. I dreamed for a moment of dropping to the platform, of springing up from it in a breath-taking swan dive, of folding my arms, of knifing downward into a blood-warm eternity with never a splash. I was recalled from this dream by the cry of a darting bird above me. It seemed to be asking me what had happened. "Pootee-phweet?" it asked. We all looked up at the bird, and then at one another. We backed away from the abyss, full of dread. And, when I stepped off the paving stone that had supported me, the stone began to rock. It was no more stable than a teetertotter. And it tottered nowover the diving platform. Down it crashed onto the platform, made the platform a chute. And down the chute came the furnishings still remaining in the room below. A xylophone shot out first, scampering fast on its tiny wheels. Out came a bedside table in a crazy race with a bounding blowtorch. Out came chairs in hot pursuit. And somewhere in that room below, out of sight, something mightily reluctant to move was beginning to move. Down the chute it crept. At last it showed its golden bow. It was the boat in which dead "Papa" lay. It reached the end of the chute. Its bow nodded. Down it tipped. Down it fell, end over end. "Papa" was thrown clear, and he fell separately. I closed my eyes. There was a sound like that of the gentle closing of a portal as big as the sky, the great door of heaven being closed softly. It was a grand AH-WHOOM. I opened my eyes--and all the sea was _ice-nine_. The moist green earth was a blue-white pearl.</span> The sky darkened. The sun, became a sickly yellow ball, tiny and cruel. The sky was filled with worms. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The worms were tornadoes. I looked up at the sky where the bird had been.</span> An enormous worm with a violet mouth was directly overhead. It buzzed like bees. It swayed.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> With obscene peristalsis,</span> it ingested air. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">We humans separated; fled my shattered battlements tumbled down staircases on the landward side. Only H. Lowe Crosby and his Hazel cried out. "American! American!" they cried, as though tornadoes were interested in the _granfalloons_ to which their victims belonged. I could not see the Crosbys. They had descended by another staircase. Their cries and the sounds of others, panting and running, came gabbling to me through a corridor of the castle. My only companion was my heavenly Mona, who had followed noiselessly. When I hesitated, she slipped past me and opened the door to the anteroom of "Papa's" suite. The walls and roof of the anteroom were gone. But the stone floor remained. And in its center was the manhole cover of the oubliette.</span> Under the wormy sky, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the flickering violet light from the mouths of tornadoes that wished to eat us, </span>I lifted the cover. The esophagus of the dungeon was fitted with iron rungs<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. I replaced the manhole cover from within.</span> Down those iron rungs we went. And at the foot of the ladder we found <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a state secret. "Papa" Monzano had caused </span>a cozy bomb shelter<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to be constructed there. It had a ventilation shaft, with a fan driven by a stationary bicycle. A tank of water was recessed in one wall. The water was sweet and wet, as yet untainted by _ice-nine_. And there was a chemical toilet, and a short-wave radio, and a Sears, Roebuck catalogue; and there were cases of delicacies, and liquor, and candles; and there were bound copies of the _National Geographic_ going back twenty years. And there was a set of _The Books of Bokonon_. And there were twin beds. I lighted a candle. I opened a can of campbell's chicken gumbo soup and I put it on a Sterno stove. And I poured two glasses of Virgin Islands rum. Mona sat on one bed. I sat down on the other. "I am about to say something that must have been said by men to women several times before," I informed her. "However, I don't believe that these words have ever carried quite the freight they carry now.""Oh?" I spread my hands. "Here we are." </span>The Sixth Book of The Books of Bokonon_ is devoted to<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> pain, in particular to</span> tortures inflicted by men on men<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. "If I am ever put to death on the hook," Bokonon warns us, "expect a very human performance." Then he speaks of the rack and the peddiwinkus and the iron maiden and the _veglia_ and the oubliette. In any case, there's bound to be much crying. But the oubliette alone will let you think while dying. And so it was in Mona's and my rock womb. At least we could think. And one thing I thought was that the creature comforts of the dungeon did nothing to mitigate the basic fact of oubliation. During our first day and night underground, tornadoes rattled our manhole cover many times an hour. Each time the pressure in our hole would drop suddenly, and our ears would pop and our heads would ring. As for the radio--there was crackling, fizzing static and that was all. From one end of the short-wave band to the other not one word, not one telegrapher's beep, did I hear. If life still existed here and there, it did not broadcast. Nor does life broadcast to this day. This I assumed: tornadoes, strewing the poisonous blue-white frost of ice-nine everywhere, tore everyone and everything above ground to pieces. Anything that still lived would die soon enough of thirst—or hunger--or rage-- or apathy. I turned to _The Books of Bokonon_, still sufficiently unfamiliar with them to believe that they contained spiritual comfort somewhere. I passed quickly over the warning on the title page of _The First Book_: "Don't be a fool! Close this book at once! It is nothing but _foma!_" _Foma_, of course, are lies"Today I will be a Bulgarian Minister of Education," Bokonon tells us. "Tomorrow I will be Helen of Troy." His meaning is crystal clear: Each one of us has to be what he or she is. And, down in the oubliette, that was mainly what I thought--with the help of _The Books of Bokonon_. Bokonon invited me to sing along with him: We do, doodley do, doodley do, doodley do, What we must, muddily must, muddily must, muddily must; Muddily do, muddily do, muddily do, muddily do, Until we bust, bodily bust, bodily bust, bodily bust. There were no smells. There was no movement. Every step I took made a gravelly squeak in blue-white frost. And every squeak was echoed loudly. The season of locking was over. </span>The earth was locked up tight. It was winter, now and forever. I helped my Mona out of our hole. I warned her to keep her hands away from the blue-white frost and to keep her hands away from her mouth, too. "Death has never been quite so easy to come by," I told her. "All you have to do is touch the ground and then your lips and you're done for."<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> She shook her head and sighed. "A very bad mother." "What?" "Mother Earth--she isn't a very good mother any more." I recalled an advertisement for a set of children's books called _The Book of Knowledge_. In that ad, a trusting boy and girl looked up at their father. "Daddy," one asked, "what makes the sky blue?" The answer, presumably, could be found in _The Book of Knowledge_. If I had had my daddy beside me as Mona and I walked down the road from the palace, I would have had plenty of questions to ask as I clung to his hand. "Daddy, why are all the trees broken? Daddy, why are all the birds dead? Daddy, what makes the sky so sick and wormy? Daddy, what makes the sea so hard and still?" It occurred to me that I was better qualified to answer those tough questions than any other human being, provided there were any other human beings alive. In case anyone was interested, I knew what had gone wrong-- where and how. So what? I wondered where the dead could be. </span>Mona and I ventured more than a mile<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from our oubliette </span>without seeing one dead human being.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I wasn't half so curious about the living, probably because I sensed accurately that I would first have to contemplate a lot of dead. I saw no columns of smoke from possible campfires; but they would have been hard to see against an horizon of worms. One thing did catch my eye: a lavender corona about the queer plug that was </span>the peak on the hump of Mount McCabe. <span style="font-size: 9pt;">It</span> seemed to be calling me, and <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I had a silly, cinematic notion of climbing that peak with Mona</span>. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">But what would it mean? We were walking into the wrinkles now at the foot of Mount McCabe. And Mona, as though aimlessly, left my side, left the road, and climbed one of the wrinkles. I followed.</span> I joined her at the top of the ridge. She was looking down raptly into a broad, natural bowl<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. She was not crying. She might well have cried. </span>In that bowl were thousands upon thousands of dead.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> On the lips of each decedent was the blue-white frost of ice-nine. </span>Mona and I looked at the focus of all those frosted eyes,<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> looked at </span>the center of the bowl. There was<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a round clearing there, </span>a place in which one orator might have stood. Mona and I<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> approached the clearing gingerly, avoiding the morbid statuary. We </span>found a boulder<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in it. And </span>under the boulder was a penciled note which said: To whom it may concern: These people around you are almost all of the survivors on San Lorenzo of the winds that followed the freezing of the sea. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">These people made a captive of the spurious holy man named Bokonon. They brought him here, placed him at their center, and commanded him to tell them exactly what God Almighty was up to and what they should now do. </span>The mountebank told them that God was surely trying to kill them, possible because He was through with them, and that they should have the good manners to die<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This,</span> as you can see, they did. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The note was</span> signed by Bokonon.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Now</span>Mona laughed. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I had never heard her laugh. Her laugh was startlingly deep and raw. "This strikes you as _funny?_" She raised her arms lazily. </span>"It's all so simple,<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that's all.</span> It solves so much for so many, so simply." And she went strolling up among the petrified thousands, still laughing.<span style="font-size: 8pt;">She paused about midway up the slope and faced me. She called down to me, "Would you wish any of these alive again, if you could? Answer me quickly. "Not quick enough with your answer," she called playfully, after half a minute had passed. And, still laughing a little, </span>she touched her finger to the ground, straightened up, and touched the finger to her lips and died. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Did I weep? They say I did A curious six months followed--the six months in which I wrote this book. Hazel spoke accurately when she called our little society the Swiss Family Robinson, for we had survived a storm, were isolated, and then the living became very easy indeed. It was not without a certain Walt Disney charm. No plants or animals survived, it's true. But _ice-nine_ preserved pigs and cows and little deer and windrows of birds and berries until we were ready to thaw and cook them. Moreover, there were tons of canned goods to be had for the grubbing in the ruins of Bolivar. And we seemed to be the only people left on San Lorenzo. Food was no problem, and neither were clothing or shelter, for the weather was uniformly dry and dead and hot. Our health was monotonously good. Apparently all the germs were dead, too, or napping. "Such a depressing religion!" I cried. I directed our conversation into the area of Utopias, of what might have been, of what should have been, of what might yet be, if the world would thaw. But Bokonon had been there, too, had written a whole book about Utopias, The Seventh Book_, which he called "Bokonon's Republic." I spoke of meaningful, individual heroic acts. I praised in particular the way in which Julian Castle and his son had chosen to die. While the tornadoes still raged, they had set out on foot for the House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle to give whatever hope and mercy was theirs to give. And I saw magnificence in the way poor Angela had died, too. She had picked up a clarinet in the ruins of Bolivar and had begun to play it at once, without concerning herself as to whether the mouthpiece might be contaminated with _ice-nine_</span>. "Soft pipes, play on," I murmured huskily.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "Well, maybe you can find some neat way to die, too," said Newt. It was a Bokononist thing to say. I blurted out my dream of climbing Mount McCabe with some magnificent symbol and planting it there."Here it is, the end of the world; and here I am, almost the very last man; and there it is, the highest mountain in sight. I know now what my _karass_ has been up to, Newt. It's been working night and day for maybe half a million years to get me up that mountain." I wagged my head and nearly wept. "But what, for the love of God, is supposed to be in my hands?" </span>I looked out<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the car window blindly as I asked that, so blindly that I went more than a mile before realizing that I had looked into the eyes of an old Negro man, a living colored man, who was sitting by the side of the road. And then I slowed down.</span> And<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> then I stopped. I covered my eyes. "What's the matter?" asked Newt. "I</span>saw Bokonon <span style="font-size: 8pt;">back there."</span> He was sitting on a rock. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">He was</span> barefoot. His feet were frosty with ice-nine.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> His only garment was a white bedspread with blue tufts. The tufts said Casa Mona. He took no note of our arrival. </span>In one hand was a pencil. In the other was paper. "Bokonon?" <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Yes?"</span> "May I ask what you're thinking?" "I am thinking, young man, about the final sentence for The Books of Bokonon. The time for the final sentence has come."<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Any luck?" </span>He <span style="font-size: 8pt;">shrugged and </span>handed me a piece of paper.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This is what I read: </span>If I were a younger man, I would write a history of human stupidity; and I would climb to the top of Mount McCabe and lie down on my back with my history for a pillow; and I would take from the ground some of the blue-white poison that makes statues of men; and I would make a statue of myself, lying on my back, grinning horribly, and thumbing my nose at You Know Who.</span>



=Negative= 
====Van Gogh 1NC==== 
<span style="font-weight: normal;">We begin with a mirror…but not just any mirror. This mirror does not reflect things as they appear at first glance, but reflects things as they are. Much like Freud’s reflection in the mirrored glass of a train car, the image is not one of beauty and virility but instead one of decline, decay, and ultimately violence. Like Freud the affirmative will be tricked by the eye…they will not see themselves in the mirror but rather be disgusted by the images that stare them in the face. Rational society is built upon this fundamental misapprehension: the denial of the dark underbelly of our existence. We turn away from polite society in an attempt to see humanity and our politics for what they are…we turn to Vincent Van Gogh in an attempt not to resist the darkness present just under the surface of reality, but rather to plunge into it. It is this destructive moment of chaos that certifies our mortality and turns to a life stripped from all utopianism and finds consolation in it…even in our madness, our violence, our joy, and ultimately our death. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bataille in 1987</span></span> (Georges, //Visions of Excess: Selected Essays 1927-1939.// Translated by Alan Stoekl. Pg. 61-72)
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The Annales medicao-… still alive in a mortar. </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">And, our project of sacrificial doubling marks the boundary where the coherence of political criticism breaks down. We confront rational existence with its opposite in the form of avant-garde literature in order to enact a sacrificial death of the 1AC. This death should not be viewed as an execution but rather as a self-mutilation. This process of auto-mutilation or self-destruction creates in its wake a subversiveness that denies the will to positivist utopianism present in the 1AC placing us in the center of a struggle between productive political action and the inescapable negativity that prefigures all of our associations with the world. You can’t learn this shit in school…only debate provides us with the space to deny the law of the land by reading the very texts that our law makers would have burned…</span>
<span class="tagChar">Stoekl in 1986</span> <span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alan, Politics, Writing, and Mutilation: The Cases of Bataille, Blanchot, Roussel, Leiris, and Ponge. Pg. xi-xix)</span></span>
<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">It has become</span> a <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">commonplace</span> of criticism <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">... be inescapable as well.)</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">This process of struggle and continual sacrifice denies the statement of a political system that sees itself as morally superior in any way. The denial of the double nature of our existence, of the inherent negativity present in all things forces the affirmative to suture over the wounds created by our auto-mutilation proposing a position that is violently innocent. This process of moral superiority and denial of negativity leads to fascism. Only the process of continual auto-destruction staves off this fate.</span>
<span class="tagChar">Stoekl in 1986</span> <span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alan, Politics, Writing, and Mutilation: The Cases of Bataille, Blanchot, Roussel, Leiris, and Ponge. Pg. 130-1)</span></span>
We have examined t... <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">and out of the text.</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Finally, we return to Bataille. Van Gogh is not just some Dutch painter who cut off his ear, but rather a person who reached the boiling point where the proposed stability of the world explodes rousing us from sleep putting us into contact with the very chaos that makes life worth living. </span>
<span class="tagChar">Bataille and Michelson in 86</span> (Van Gogh as Prometheus Author(s): Georges and Annette Source: October, Vol. 36, Georges Bataille: Writings on Laughter, Sacrifice, Nietzsche, Un- Knowing (Spring, 19), pp. 58-60 Published by: The MIT Press Stable URL:<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/778550]]</span>)
<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">Vincent Van Gogh belongs ... and only thereby to power.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]