[[toc]]
=Heidegger Affirmative= 


**Fitter Happier Military 1AC**

**We’re all slowly becoming fitter happier. The paradigm of efficiency for it’s own sake is ingraining itself into our mindsets. Every facet of our lifestyles and ways of viewing the world are funneled through the narrow pathway of efficiency. This is the worldview that seeks to see things and people not in terms of any emotions or sentimentality; it sees them through what can be displayed on charts and graphs, what can be calculated. Arthur Kroker explains in 2003.**
(Arthur, Canada Research Chair in Technology, Culture and Theory at the University of Victoria, Canada, “The Will to Technology,” chapter 4, available online at http://www.ctheory.net/will/index2.html)

**To value a thing is to be being-towards that thing. To value technology is to be being-towards being-towards. This focus on technicity births a new lens of viewing the world, or what we would call a new will. This is not a will towards anything other than itself and its own ability to will as efficiently as possible. It is because of this that this mindset is titled ‘the will to will’ Kroker continues in 2003.**
(Arthur, Canada Research Chair in Technology, Culture and Theory at the University of Victoria, Canada, “The Will to Technology,” chapter 4, available online at http://www.ctheory.net/will/index2.html)

**Though the will to will is only one possible way of viewing life, its self-justifying cycle is a hegemonic force that is seen as the only paradigm for life. The Will to Will orders our lives in two ways.**
**The first effect is that our perceptions of the world become limited. Things that do not fit within the realm of utility become invisible to us, the ideas of love, friendship, or any other emotions that make us fundamentally human become alien and strange to us.**
**The second is that we become enslaved by ourselves. We see the world and those in it simply as a standing reserve, waiting to be used. Similarly, we come to see ourselves solely in terms of our utility, and we fall under the dispositions of the technology that we thought we controlled. Imagine the matrix, only we are the ones who plug ourselves in, and we probably wouldn’t waste energy making a cool simulation-world for us to live in, either. Beckman 2000**
(Tad, Harvey Mudd College, Claremont, CA, available online at http://www2.hmc.edu/~tbeckman/personal/HEIDART.HTML)

**Armed pilotless drones such as the Predator have revolutionized the way America fights wars- these vehicles are some of the most effective arial recon and combat units that are on the battlefield today.**
**Callam 2010**
(Andrew, Staff Writer, The International Affairs Review Online, “Drone Wars: Armed Unmanned Aerial Vehicles”, Volume XIX, No. 1: Winter 2010, http://www.iar-gwu.org/node/144)



**The armed and unarmed pilotless drones in Afghanistan and Iraq should not exist.**



**Clearly voting affirmative won’t actually end the existence of the drones, but that isn’t the point. Rather, understand that these pilotless drones are efficient at what they do- gathering information and killing.**
**The power of the will to will comes from it’s ability to be self-justifying, to see efficiency as both the means and the ends when really it is just a paradigm for viewing the world. By affirming our inefficient action you are thinking outside of the will to will. To think outside of it is to prove it as paradigm, rather than truth. Realizing the will to will for what it is- one of many lenses to view the world through- strips it of it’s hegemonic power and allows us to establish a true relationship with ourselves.**
**We do not think technology or even efficiency is bad. What we will defend as being a bad thing in this round is when the will to will is viewed as the only paradigm for life. We allow for the openess to all things, even those not seen as inherently efficient. This card has been gender modified.**
**Dreyfus 2006**
(Hubert, Professor of philosophy at UC Berkeley, “Heidegger on the connection between Nihilism, Art, Technology and Politics,” available online at http://socrates.berkeley.edu/%7Ehdreyfus/pdf/HdgerOnArtTechPoli.pdf)



=Butler Affirmative= 
=== === 
**Counter-terrorism operations in Afghanistan commonly employ detention without charge against suspected terrorists and individuals who simply are suspected to be in contact with terrorists. The individuals are beaten and tortured in horrific ways. They are never charged and if they are ever released, they have no idea why they were charged. Gebauer. Goetz, and Sandberg 2009**
(Staff writers, 9121, "Prisoner Abuse Continues at Bagram Prison in Afghanistan", Spiegel Online International)


===**Advantage one is the State of Exception**=== 
**The abandonment of the law in the case of Bagram and other possible bases within Afghanistan represents the law becoming a specific tool of governance that can be suspended for the strategic purposes of the state, rather than being a neutral form of justice.**
**Butler 2006 (Judith, Professor of Rhetoric and Comparative Literature atUC Berkeley, "Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence," Pg. 81-83 )**

While relatively widespread outrage...disdainful, preemtory, and arbitrary.


**These detentions represent the way that a securitized state establishes the exception as the norm. The 'exceptional' reasons for detention without charge become the neccesary norm for continued security. This ideology sets the framework for the exceptional to become to norm in any case, allowing for any and all of society to be rendered to the status of bare life**
**Butler 2006 (Pg. 67-68)**

"Indefinite detention" is illegitimate...if not fatally politicized.

**Further, the process of 'deeming' that leads to indefinite detention is one that interns individuals for no reason other than suspicion. This ideology extends within our own borders and allows any population to be deemed dangerous and interned.**
**Butler 2006(Pg. 76-80)**

If a person is simply deemed dangerous...any and all recourse to law.

**This perpetual state of exception allows for the dehumanization of mass populations and the legitimation of violence against them. The ideologies of security and fear establish lives as ungreivable and entirely outside of our ethical framework.**
**Butler 2006 (Pg. 33-35)**

I am referring to not only...part unmarkable and ungrievable.
=== === 
===**Advantage two is Vulnerability**=== 
**Our feelings of vulnerability after 9/11 have left us vengeful in a way that allows us to justify the suspension of traditional rights. Detention without charge exists as a specific mechanism to cover up and hide our own vulnerability.**
**Butler and Stauffer 2003 "The believer". Interview**

JB: This reminds me of you article in the Nation...putative acts may have been.


**This process locks us into a cycle of violence that can only end by accepting our own vulnerability. Maintaining ourselves as 'hegemonic' serves to only escalate tensions and violence while stepping away allows us to see the vulnerability within ourselves that allows the world to enter into a new politics of peace.**
**Butler and Stauffer 2003 "The believer". Interview**

I think there is a way with living with vulnerability...there we got to gender pretty quickly, didn't we?


**The plan reveals the lives at Bagram and other detention facilities as mournable, human, and tragic. These are the images and expressions that humanize the violence we do against others and that brings that violence to a close. We push the limits of what it means to be understood as 'human' and allow a true politics of peace to develop.**
**Butler 2006 (Pg. 150-151)**

In the Vietnam war it was the picture of children dying from napalm...sensate democracy they occasionally perform.


===**Plan -**=== 
**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in Afghanistan by ending all counter-terrorism missions involving detention without charge and by closing all military and/or police structures engaged in detention without charge.**






=Negative= 

**Capitalism K: Round 1 of St. Marks vs. Coppell**

**Human rights are used as justification for military intervention and imperial tendencies**
**Treanor 4 (Paul studied Political Studies at the Universiteit van Amserdam, [[http://web.inter.nl.net/users/Paul.Treanor/human-rights.html]])**

**Multiculturalism is global capitalism’s ideal ideology because it treats each local culture as a colonized people-this ideology is a form of paternal distanced racism which allows groups to assert their superiority to subcultures.**
**Zizek, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana, Slovenia 1999**
**Slavoj, The Ticklish Subject, p216-217**

**Capitalism’s drive towards survival structured through blind economics ends in multiple scenarios for extinction. It is only by refusing the aff’s demand of survival that we may survive**
**Deborah Cook, Professor of Philosophy, University of Windsor, 2006, “Staing alive:Adorno and Habermas on self Preservation Under Late Capitalism”**

**The alternative is to do nothing. Endorse this authentic political act to create space for a revolution to occur**
**Zizek 4/Slavoj, “Iraq: The borrowed Kettle” Pg: 72-87**

**Problem/solution ontology dooms the 1AC framework to failure, rendering them incapable of distinguishing the plan from technological genocide**
**Spanos 2K (America’s Shadow, p. 129-131)**

**Imperial Ontology sustains capitalism**
**Spanos 2K (America’s Shadow p. 192)**

**The aff’s “can do” approach to the resolution replicates America’s exceptionalist mentality and the harms**
**Spanos 08 (Global American: The Devastation of Language under the Dictatorship of the Public Realm, p. 184-186, MUSE)**

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]