[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
===**Contention One is the Evangelism of Fear**:=== 

**Politics, debate, and the academy are obsessed with a process of securing security. Discourses of danger constantly press upon us, telling us to act in order to avert some catastrophe in the near future. Knowledge is constantly produced in ways that presume the world as dangerous and in need of quick-fix policy solutions. Because of this, identities are constructed internationally in ways that mandate global violence.**

**Dillon 96** [Michael, professor Politics and International Relations at the University of Lancaster, The Politics of Security, pp. 14-15]

"A logical way of pursuing ... manifold discourses of danger."

**Dominant discourse surrounding US policy in Afghanistan is based on disconnected narratives and factoids that come to construct not only the identity of Afghanistan, but also that of the US. Through so-called objective reasoning, military presence is demanded and sustained all in the name of peace. This creates a vicious cycle of failed policymaking, resulting in an ever-expanding imperialism that goes far beyond the Afghan borders.**

**Crowe 7** (Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science @ York University, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,” archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)

"The historical production of ... and the ‘militarization’ discourse/myth."

**The project of securing Afghanistan from the ‘backward,’ ‘evil’ Taliban relies on an evangelism of fear – the myth of salvation from danger through constant militarism and war. ‘Security’ is never achievable – it’s always just one more war away, just one more class of shadowy ‘enemies’ to be annihilated**

**Crowe 7** (Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science @ York University, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,” archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)

"Several problematic elements ... the leitmotiv for universal safety."

**This evangelism of fear is produces its own danger. Militarization sustains a vicious cycle of violence in the name of securing oneself against death.**

**Campbell 98** (David- PHD, Prof of cultural & poli geog @ U of Durham, Writing Security, p.54-55)

"It requires an emphasis on ... Christendom's evangelism of fear."

**The identification of the evil terrorists and insurgents in Afghanistan works to creates a false sense of security that denies the contingency of life and inevitability of death. It is easier to fight a war against difference rather than affirm life in all its danger. As a result, life itself becomes a meaningless, a hollow shell that is constantly evading death.**

**Der Derian 98** [James, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,” in On Security
ed. Ronnie Lipschutz. http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html]

"Nietzsche transvalues both ... advantages and new strength."

**Securitized representations are the root cause of violence and make war inevitable**
**Der Derian 2** (James, Professor of Political Science at Brown University, “Theory & Event The War of Networks)

Without falling into the trap … medical science, practice semiology.

**Finally, realism is a social construct - claims of war and conflict create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. Through interrogation of discourses we can change the way the US functions and ultimately bring about a more peaceful world**.
**Grondin 4** (David, Masters in PoliSci and PhD Candidate @ University of Ottawa, “(Re)Writing the National Security State,” Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)

Approaches that deconstruct theoretical … international sphere comes into being.


===Plan Text:=== 
**Thus, we advocate the following:**
**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Afghanistan.**

===**Contention Two is Interrogating Discourse**:=== 

**Our interrogation of how we come to understand and represent Afghanistan is crucial to undermining cycles of violent and failed intervention. Imperial warfare is carried out through the way we produce knowledge about Afghanistan.**

**Crowe 7** (Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science @ York University, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,” archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)

"In an article entitled 'Modern Hate' ... stake in failing to do so."

**Policymaking is not a value-neutral endeavor. The discourse and representations we use construct the reality that we work with.**

**Crowe 7** (Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science @ York University, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West,” archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)

"We need to navigate critically ... who is being disappeared?"

**Foregrounding epistemological questions is the best, most politically productive way to debate – policymaking that excludes epistemological reflection is ethically bankrupt and prone to failure. This also devastates their roleplaying args – producing policy knowledge without epistemological reflection makes us slaves of the state and ensures our scholarship only bottlenecks into tried-and-failed policy models.**

**Smith 97** (Steve Smith, Professor and Pro-Vice Chancellor in the Department of International Studies at the University of Wales- Aberystwyth, 1997, Review of International Studies, Vol. 23, p. 514-516)

"In my view, Wallace misrepresents ... to which we are responsible."

=Negative= 
==Wake Forest== 
Round 2 vs. Palo Alto DL:
1NC:
T Combat Troops
Consult NATO CP
Security K
START DA
2NR:
Security

Round 4 vs. Alpharetta CL:
1NC:
T Combat Troops
Consult NATO CP
Security K
START DA
2NR:
START

Round 5 vs. Stratford RR:
1NC:
Substantial is 50%
FX T (Court Ruling)
9-0 CP
START DA
Security K
2NR:
FX T (Court Ruling)

9-0 CP from round 5 vs. Stratford, for Reuben

===//1NC Shell 9-0 CP//=== 

**Text: The Supreme Court of the United States should rule on a unanimous 9-0 decision that the United States federal government must close the detention centers located at Bagram Airbase on the grounds that torture and detention at Bagram Airbase violate international law.**

**The fragmented decisions which are normal means for the Supreme Court devastate solvency**
**Cooper 95** [Phillip – prof polisci Vermont – Battles on the Bench]

"The excessive fragmentation … effective institutional judgment."

**Plurality decisions ruin the Court’s institutional legitimacy and the rule of law, inviting backlash and non-compliance over issues of constitutional rights**
**Banks 99** [Christopher – assi prof polisci U Akron – 32 Akron L. Rev. 233]

"Associate Justice Robert ... admitted into evidence."

**Upholding the Rule of Law is a D-Rule to uphold the fundamental rights of all humanity**
**Rawls 71** [John – prof Harvard – A Theory of Justice – p235]

"I now wish … than 'formal justice.'"

==Samford== 
Round 1 vs. Vestavia DK:
1NC:
T: Combat
START
Consult NATO CP
Security K
2NR: 
Security K

Round 4 vs. Marist BW:
1NC:
T: Combat
Consult NATO CP
START
Security K
2NR:
T: Combat

Round 5 vs. GACS KA
1NC:
T: Combat
START
Consult NATO CP
Security K
2NR:
Consult NATO CP

Semis vs. USN LZ:
1NC:
T: Covert Ops
T: Substantial > 80 K troops
START
Security K
Demining CP
2NR:
Demining CP


Demining CP from Semis, for Emma:

===//**1NC Shell Demining CP:**//=== 

**CP Text: The United States Special Operations Command (USSOCOM) should end all current special operations forces (SOF) missions in Afghanistan, and should mandate that those forces shift to humanitarian demining operations.**

**Afghanistan is the most mined country now- civilian casualties from landmines are high and local disappointment is rampant that the US isn’t involved- kills US HR cred.**
**George 2.** (Marcus George “Afghanistan's landmine legacy” BBC News Online, 28 July, 2002 http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/2153371.stm)

"Widespread fighting may ... in human rights issues.'"

**Special Forces Operations are trained to successfully carry out these operations- it’s just a question of whether they use them in Afghanistan.**
**Special Operations 2k.** (Specialoperations.com, “DoD Deploys Soldiers With New Vehicle to Train Namibian Demining Teams” http://www.specialoperations.com/Operations/demining.html)

"Four soldiers from ... by over 50 percent."

===**//2NC Demining CP://**=== 

**Demining operations in Afghanistan have made progress but international assistance is key to success.**
**Esfandiari 5**. (Golnaz Esfandiari, Radio Liberty “Afghanistan: Land-Mine Problem Tackled With Some Success” February 16, 2005. http://www.rferl.org/content/article/1057495.html)

"Afghanistan is one of the... of them],' Hakimi said."

**Solving for landmines are key to their case- multiple reasons including civilian casualties, refugee creation, destruction of resources and infrastructure, and destruction of economic development and political stability- turns case and guts solvency.**
**DoD No Date** (U.S. Department of Defense Humanitarian Demining R&D Program. “Silent Killers: Landmine Threats: Land Held Hostage.” http://www.humanitariandemining.org/newdesign/Threats_Overview.asp)

"According to the Landmine ... for housing, agriculture, or passage."

T cards from Semis, for Emma:

===**//T Presence =/= Covert/Virtual//**=== 

**A. Interpretation - Presence means forward deployed forces physically present and visible within the country - any other interpretation destroys limits**
**Dismukes 94** – representative of the Center for Naval Analyses to the London staff of the Commander in Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe. (Bradford, “National Security Strategy and Forward Presence: Implications
for Acquisition and Use of Forces,” March, http://cna.org/sites/default/files/research/2793019200.pdf) Italics in original, CONUS = Continental United States

"Another difference between presence ... dictate they not be considered part of presence."

**And, Framers Intent**
**Bauschard 10** (Stephen Bauschard, Topic Paper for 2010 Resolution)

"Second, ideally, I think ...'Non covert.' in the paper."
===//**T Substantial > 80,000 troops**//=== 

**A. Definition-**
**A substantial reduction is anything more than 80,000 troops**
**CBO 90** (Congressional Budget Office, MANAGING THE REDUCTION IN MILITARY PERSONNEL, July 1990, CBO Papers <http://www.cbo.gov/ftpdocs/64xx/doc6473/90doc220.pdf>)

"A substantial reduction ... the proposed CFE treaty."

**B. Violation- the aff withdraws less than 80,000 troops**
**There are only 5000 special operation forces in Afghanistan**
**Scarborough 9** (Rowan, “Pentagon Quietly Sending 1,000 Special Operators to Afghanistan in Strategy Revamp,” June 5th, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2009/06/05/pentagon-quietly-sending-special-operators-afghanistan-strategy-revamp/)

"The increase in special ... confirmed to FOXNews.com."
==Glenbrooks== 
Round 2 vs. McDowell ZS
1NC:
Kappeler K
T- Presence only troops
START DA
Turkey Security Commitment CP
2NR:
Kappeler K

Round 4 vs. Carrollton DK
1NC:
Security K
START DA
T- Presence only troops
2NR: 
START DA

Round 5 vs. Eden Prairie ZP
1NC:
NATO-Russia Relations DA
Security K
Partition CP
START DA
T- Combat Troops
2NR:
NATO-Russia Relations DA

==OVI== 
Round 1 vs Hooch AC (COIN)
1NC:
START
T Combat
India Relations DA
Security
2NR:
Security

Round 3 vs Hathaway Brown MP (TNWs)
1NC:
Withdrawal DA
Security
T Presence is Soldiers
START
2NR:
START-Case

Round 6 vs New Trier DH (COIN)
1NC:
T Combat
"Its" T (Plan Flaw)
Security
START
India Relations DA
2NR:
India Relations
=Contact me:= 
You can email me: [[mailto:pstraus13@gmail.com|pstraus13@gmail.com]] if you need anything.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]