[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">We begin our investigation with the following report from Anand Gopal concerning the military’s policy of conducting night raids and subsequent detention of Afghan civilians… </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gopal 2k10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> [Anand Gopal, field reporter for the //Christian Science Monitor// and the //Wall Street Journal//. “America’s Secret Afghan Prisons.” //The Nation//. February 15, 2010. [[http://www.thenation.com/article/americas-secret-afghan-prisons]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">"Night raids are only...Special Operations Forces."</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The experience of the Afghan civilians interviewed by Gopal reveals the foundation of modern sovereign politics – namely the separation of //zoe// and //bios//, biological life and political life, a practice by which natural life is incorporated into politics by its very exclusion. This can be traced through the sovereign ability to suspend the rule of law in a state of exception. It is in this space that individuals such as Sher Khan, Ehsanullah, and Mujahid exist - at the threshold between politically qualified life and //homo sacer//, or bare life that can be killed without being sacrificed, the production of which constitutes the originary act of biopolitics. This logic of sovereign exception finds its terminus in “the camp.” Like the prisons at Bagram and the many undocumented Field Detention Sites, the camp has become the new biopolitical //nomos// of the planet, a location in which the state of exception, initially a temporary suspension of the law, becomes the norm. It is at this point when politics becomes biopolitics and //homo sacer// becomes indistinguishable from the citizen, producing a zone of indistinction that makes any and all forms of violence possible. </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edkins 2k3 </span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">[Jenny Edkins, Senior Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Wales. //Trauma and the Memory of Politics//. 2003, pg 179-182]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">"For Agamben too...new politics must be thought."</span>


<span style="line-height: normal;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">When confronted by the horrors of the camp, it is not enough to simply repeat the metaphors of democracy and human rights. Such a path would retreat back into the logic of sovereignty. Reinscribing the body within the state order prepares the transition to biopolitics and the creation of bare life. Our response instead should be to bear witness to bare life itself, to the incommesurability between the human and the non-human, politically qualified life and //homo sacer// . The 1AC embraces this model of witnessing by refusing to follow sovereignty back into the realm of security.</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edkins 2k3 </span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">[Jenny Edkins, Senior Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Wales. //Trauma and the Memory of Politics//. 2003, pg 185-189]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">"The distinction that Levi...contests sovereign power."</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Modern political communities are held together by the collective drive for security that provides the symbolic legitimization of state violence. The ballot acts as a point of rupture within the linear narrative of sovereign politics that demands conformity to sovereign authority, institutions, and practices. This is a specific strategy of criticism which should not be excluded – attempts to define our affirmative by placing arbitrary limits on the game of debate is an extension of a conservative strategy which produces new exclusions by limiting the expressions of trauma into the linguistic boundaries of political community. </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edkins 2k3 </span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">[Jenny Edkins, Senior Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Wales. //Trauma and the Memory of Politics//. 2003, pg 185-189]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">"On the other hand...reformulation of community."</span>

=Negative= 
Security K
The 1AC's realist logic is founded upon genocidal exclusions - their descriptions are not neurtral and objective, but are instead political and contingent. George '94 [Jim, Senior lecturer in international relations in the department of political science, Australian National University. "Discourse of Global Politics: A Critical (Re)Introduction to International Relations." pg 11-13]
"This is the general context...framework described earlier."

Realism secures its place as the hegemonic understanding of the world through violence - the claim to intellectual mastery is the root cause of conflict. George '94 [Jim, Senior lecturer in international relations in the department of political science, Australian National University. "Discourse of Global Politics: A Critical (Re)Introduction to International Relations." pg 140-141]
"The critical social theory...(anarchical) difference."

Voting Negative "forgets" the dominant worldveiw of the 1AC and begins a new world cultural story from scratch. This approach is capable of overcoming the prevailing stagnation of geopolitics.
Bleiker '1 [Roland, Senior Lecturer and Co-director of Rotary centre of International Studies in Peac and Conflict Resolution. "The Zen of Inernational Relations" pg 38-39]
"The power to tell stories...real world politics."

The burden of proof is on the affirmative - theory is always for someone and for some purpose. Voting negative acknowledges the contingency not just of their threatening rhetoric, but also of their overly narrow conception of the political.
Booth '5 [Ken Booth, E.H. Carr professor and head of the Department of International Politics, University of Wales. "Critical Explorations." //Critical Security Studes and World Politics//. Ed. Ken Booth. pg 10-11]
"Critical approaches to international...evidence to prove it."
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]