<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_Toc276050208]][[#_Toc276049953]][[#_Toc275976819]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt;"> - U Mich Round-Robin </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Joyce, 2009 Kathryn, NEWSWEEK, </span>[[http://www.newsweek.com/2009/06/18/christian-soldiers.html]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Growing culture of militarized Christianity in the armed forces influenced by military chaplains. Evangelicals are converting and prosthelitizing </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Boston 2009 Rob, Citizens United for Separation of Church and State </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Hunting-souls-in-afghanistan-video-exposes-military-proselytizing-plan/ </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">An influx of aggressive fundamentalists has entered the military chaplaincy, with emphasis on winning converts to their narrow brand of fundamentalist Christianity and targeting the native populations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Evangelicals consider military a mission field </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce the number of military chaplains serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Or - rounds 4-7 UMich RR) The United States Supreme Court should rule that military chaplains should be withdrawn from Iraq and Afghanistan as a violation of the Constitutional separation of church and state. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_Toc274815099]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Bouser, September 2010 Steven “New Meaning to ‘Onward Christian Soldiers’ http://www.thepilot.com/news/2010/sep/29/new-meaning-to-onward-christian-soldiers </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Chaplains trying to turn military members into modern-day Crusaders. Could not come at a worse time, Muslims extremists cite them as evil Christian zealots out to wage religious war on them. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Roda, 2009 Chris, http://www.militaryreligiousfreedom.org/press-releases/toptenway </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Chaplins flaunting of Christianity in these Muslim lands. The stupidity of this is astounding. . . couldn't be a better recruiting tool for extremists. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Maasarani, 2009 Zeyad, InFocus News staff rider, MRRF, July 6, http://www.militaryreligiousfreedom.org/press-releases/infocus_crusade.html </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Iinfiltration of the military at the highest level by people who say war is between Christianity and Islam. Not an isolated incident </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Siddiqi, 2009 Dr. Habib, May, http://usa.mediamonitors.net/content/view/full/62269 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Obama’s message that war is not against Islam is undermined by evangelicals through military. America can’t afford to be seen as a neo-Crusading power. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Harm 2) Church – State </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Denberg, 2010 Hart Van, May, http://blogs.citypages.com/blotter/2010/05/michele_bachman_96.php </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Battle over evangelizing military product of Christian organizations. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Weinstein, 2007 </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Michael L., Pres., MRFF </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://blog.buzzflash.com/interviews/065|http://blog.buzzflash.com/interviews/06]]</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Christian versus the Constitution issue. Separate of church/state prevent tyranny. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Virilio and Lotringer, 2008 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Paul Virilio, director of the École speéciale d’architecture in Paris (in an interview with Sylvère Lotringer), Pure War, 2008, trans. Mark Polizzotti, p. 61-64. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Holy war has no limits – leads to Apacalypse </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Norton, 2007 [[http://www.firstfreedomfirst.org/node/72]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Evangelicas fighting against knowledge, trying to turn back the clock. Real and present danger to Constitution. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Tyranny comes silenty, freedom cannot exist where religion controls state. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Solvency </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Cline, 2006 </span>[[#_Toc274823980]][[#_Toc274815203]][[#_Toc274815093]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Austin, http://atheism.about.com/od/churchstatemyths/a/GovernmentChaplains.htm </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Government funded chaplains are wrong for multiple reasons. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Weinstein and Seay, 2006, With God on Our Side, p. 205 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Battle between Islam and Christianity will become a self-fulfulling prophecy unless we move quickly and aggressively to counter it. Keeping religion out of the armed forces is important first step. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Russell, 1927http://www.users.drew.edu/~jlenz/whynot.html </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Truth and intelligence without religion </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Munot, 2008Aditi, “All in the Name of Religion” </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://www.countercurrents.org/munot291108.htm </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 7pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">War, genocide, holocaust, Inquisition all carried out in the name of religion. Religion teaches ignorance. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Calhoun DUBS Aff v. Mountain Brook (MQ) - Samford (Quarters) - Ran a similar version of DUBS, plan specific to Iraq. </span>

Calhoun DUBS Aff – Wake Forest 

Contention 1 is Inherency-The US military is using depleted uranium weapons in Iraq and Afghanistan 
Lindorff ‘09 [Dave, veteran investigative journalist for The Huffington Post and St. Martin’s Press, “Depleted Uranium Weapons: Dead Iraqi and Afghani Babies Are No Joke,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dave-lindorff/depleted-uranium-weapons_b_326547.html] 
And, that isn’t changing anytime soon- we’re developing new DU weapons and we’re not investing in alternatives 
Hambling ’09 [David, contributing writer for Wired.com’s Danger Room, “Army Again Turns to Depleted Uranium for New Weaponry,” December 15, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2009/12/army-again-turns-to-depleted-uranium-for-new-weaponry/]]] 
The United States Federal Government should permanently withdraw all weapons and equipment containing depleted uranium from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Contention 2 is Cancer- Depleted uranium is skyrocketing cancer rates in Iraq, but the US military is shirking responsibility 
Robinson ‘10 [Gary, Gulf War veteran, February, Accessed April 13, 2010 at [[http://www.gulfwarvets.com/du_greatest_enviomental_horrors.htm]]] 
DU is changing the face of cancer- it’s mutating into a worse and more far-reaching disease 
Paulinson ’06 [Pauline, contributing writer for Countercurrents.org, “Depleted Uranium, Another Gift 
From The Imperialists,” November 16, [[http://www.countercurrents.org/us-paulinson161106.htm]]] 
And, it will only get worse with future use- depleted uranium wreaks devastation for billions of years and it’s spreading thousands of miles beyond war zones 
Bhagwat ‘04 [Vishnu, Former Chief of the Naval Staff, India, “Silent WMDs; effects of Depleted Uranium” [[http://www.thepowerhour.com/articles/du_effects.htm]]] 
These harms aren’t contained- the amount of DU weapons are staggering and can create airborn plumes that spread globally- this could raise the global cancer rate 50% by 2020 
Paulinson ’06 [Pauline, contributing writer for Countercurrents.org, “Depleted Uranium, Another Gift 
From The Imperialists,” November 16, [[http://www.countercurrents.org/us-paulinson161106.htm]]] 
US forces admit to using over 300 tons of DU ...preliminary tests showed that the air, soil and water samples contained “hundreds to thousands of times” the normal levels of radiation. 
Cancer is one of the most pressing systemic impacts- uncontrolled spread kills millions, and that only assumes current trends 
World Health Organization ‘03[April 3, [[http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2003/pr27/en/]]] 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Cancer rates could further increase by 50% </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">We are rapidly approaching the tipping point- we have an ethical obligation to act immediately to ban this blatant disregard for human life, otherwise it risks the extinction of the entire planet </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Lendman ’06 [Stephen, BA from Harvard and MBA from Wharton, contributor to Global Research, “Depleted Uranium - A Hidden Looming Worldwide Calamity,” January 19, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=1754] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">DU, specifically in Iraq and Afghanistan, spills over to unimaginable consequences- it contaminates vital waterways that could infect the entire Middle East and broader Asian continent- that destabilizes Asia and causes food insecurity- this is the impact card you’ll call for after the debate </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Eyre ’09 [Peter, Middle East consultant and contributing writer for Global Research, “The Weapons Used In Iraq and Afghanistan Have Far Reaching Effects,” Dec. 12, http://www.sott.net/articles/show/199464-The-Weapons-Used-In-Iraq-Afghanistan-Have-Far-Reaching-Effects] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Contention 3 is Genocide- DU weapons are fueling a silent genocide- each round of DU ammunition is an additional nail in the collective coffin of Afghanistan and will destroy entire generations</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Mikaki ‘03 [Mohammed, PhD Director Afghan DU & Recovery Fund, “The Silent Genocide from America” </span>[[http://www.ratical.org/radiation/DU/MirakiSGfromA.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">] </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The military is fully aware of the effects- Lindorff ‘09 [Dave, veteran investigative journalist for The Huffington Post and St. Martin’s Press, “Depleted Uranium Weapons: Dead Iraqi and Afghani Babies Are No Joke,” </span>[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dave-lindorff/depleted-uranium-weapons_b_326547.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Failure to act against genocide makes observers complicit </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Vetlesen ’00 [Ann Vetlesen, Journal of Peace Research, 37(4), 2000, p. 520-22 24] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Genocide goes beyond physical death to destroy the very fabric of social existence that makes life worth living and death bearable- social death outweighs their disads </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Card ‘03 [Claudia, Emma Goldman Professor of Philosophy at the University of Wisconsin, "Genocide and Social Death," Hypatia 18.1 (2003) 63-79, project muse] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">\Weigh this impact before utilitarian claims- the intentions and guilt inherent in genocide must be considered first to prevent it from becoming another daily atrocity </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Destexhe ‘95 [Alain (fmr secretary-general of Doctors Without Borders, fmr president of the Int’l Crisis Group and secretary of the Belgian Senate Special Committee of Inquiry into the Genocide in Rwanda.), “Rwanda and Genocide in the Twentieth Century,” pp. 9-11, NYU Press] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Contention 4 is Solvency- </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">The 1AC is a critical exposure of the oppressive military machine- we have an ethical obligation to incorporate the permanent effects of depleted uranium into the sphere of public debate- otherwise the media will obscure it and the harms will go on forever </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Nixon ‘05 [Rob, professor at the University of Wisconsin Madison, Feb. 18, “Our Tools of War, Turned Blindly Against Ourselves" http://irgg.research.yale.edu/documents/ToolsofWar.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">And, we should plan for the worst- it’s better to endorse the plan now than waiting to face the consequences later- the plan causes a spillover effect that can limit global DU usage </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">McDonald ’08 [Avril, Research Associate of the TMC Asser Instituut, The Hague, and a Lecturer in International Humanitarian Law at the University of Groningen, “Depleted uranium weapons: the next target for disarmament?” </span>[[http://www.unidir.org/pdf/articles/pdf-art2757.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">The status quo risks DU arms races where other militaries race to catch up with the US- we must ban it before it escalates out of control </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Quinn ’05 [Neil, Professor of Technological Ethics at Santa Clara University, “Depleted Uranium: Ethics Of The Silver Bullet,” http://www.mindfully.org/Nucs/2005/Depleted-Uranium-Ethics9may05.htm] </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Contention 5 is no nuclear war impacts-US primacy and rapid response means we’d quickly end a nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Lieber and Press, 2006 [Keir A., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, Daryl G., Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, Foreign Affairs; Mar/Apr2006, Vol. 85 Issue 2, p42-54, 13p “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy”] </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Major war is obsolete – multiple factors prevent escalation and conflict
MANDELBAUM, American foreign policy professor at the Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University,1999(Michael, “Is Major War Obsolete?”, </span>[[@http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">) </span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">And, even if they do win that a nuclear war will happen, our impacts are comparatively worse </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Gutierrez ’08 [David, staff writer at Natural News, “Depleted Uranium Shells Used by U.S. Military Worse Than Nuclear Weapons,” May 20, </span>[[http://www.naturalnews.com/023274_military_depleted_uranium_US.html]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Experts agree- the threat of nuclear extinction is lower than ever </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Adams et al 5-26 [Sam Adams, Steve Heisler, Jason Heller, Genevieve Koski, Noel Murray, Keith Phipps, Leonard Pierce, Tasha Robinson, and Todd VanDerWerff are staff writers for the A.V. Club, “Roll credits? The truth behind cinematic apocalypses (and how much we should worry about them),” </span>[[http://www.avclub.com/articles/roll-credits-the-truth-behind-cinematic-apocalypse,41520/2/]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;">Prefer our systemic impacts- expert predictions of war like the DA are paid off and unreliable- twenty year studies prove that calculations like the DA are wrong </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 134.25pt 0pt 0in; tab-stops: 11.0in; tabstops: 11.0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Menand ‘05 [Louis, December 5, "Everybody's an Expert," The New Yorker, </span>[[http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?printable=true]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">"] </span></span>