[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
A nuclear weapon is a weapon of mass destruction whose explosive power derives from a nuclear reaction.
Ought not indicates a moral prohibition
Value: Morality
The nature of states necessitates that obligations be justified according to what would be rational as a contractual agreement.
Applbaum, Arthur (Professor of Ethics and Public Policy at Harvard University). Ethics for Adversaries: The Morality of Roles in Public and Professional Life. (2000): p. 155
[Can the notion ... treatment remains deceptive.]
Rational contractarianism is the only way of generating morally legitimate principles, since its ethical force is based on the fact that they are rational to endorse.
Gauthier, David (Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh). Morals by Agreement. (1986).
[A contractarian theory ... morally neutral, base.]
In the case of nuclear weapons policy, reasoning in terms of probabilities is essentially arbitrary.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[The upshot is ... so much at stake.]
Reasoning to the exclusion of consequences is irrational in the case of nuclear strategy because of the nature of the consequences under consideration.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Little need be ... number of perspectives.]
The only rational alternative to reasoning from probability or from disregarding consequences altogether is possibilistic reasoning.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Under this perhaps ... be powerfully reinforcing.]
Refusal to possess nuclear weapons is the only way to produce the necessary modal shifts rendering nuclear catastrophe impossible.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[The second category ... on these grounds.]
Even disarmament by a single actor renders full-scale nuclear exchanges impossible, therefore creating modal limits on the range of devastation possible because of nuclear weapons.
Goodin, Robert. "Nuclear Disarmament as a Moral Certainty." Ethics 95.3 (April 1985): p. 641-658.
[Notice, second, that ... few nuclear devices.]
With more nuclear weapons, it becomes harder to maintain control of control systems, creating a modal shift towards the direction of nuclear catastrophe.
Stegenga, James (Professor of Political Science at Purdue University). “Nuclear Deterrence: Bankrupt Ideology.”Policy Sciences 16.2 (November 1983): p. 127-145.
[Social science and ... the Soviet machinery.]
Nuclear security requires strict civilian control, such as both the US and the Soviet Union had during the Cold War. But, new proliferators lack civilian oversight.
Sagan, Scott (Professor of Political Science at Stanford University). “The Perils of Proliferation.” International Security 18.4 (Spring 1994): p. 66-107.
[First, I argue ... than later’ logic.]
The risks of nuclear weapons are greater by orders of magnitude than the harms of even major conventional wars.
Toon, Brian (Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Studies at the University of Colorado). "New Studies Show Regional Nuclear War Would Trigger Mass Death, Devastating Climate Change." University of Colorado News Online Release, 11 November 2006.
[Even small-scale regional ... produce, he said.]

==Negative== 
Round 1:
NC:
Value: Morality, contextualized to state obligations
Negative Burden: Permissibility
Contention: States lack the existential capacity to be moral entities.
State identity is formed through collective citizenship and constructed community.
Habermas, Jurgen. "Citizenship and National Identity: Some Reflections on the Future of Europe." in Robertson, Roland and Kathlen White. Globalization: Global Membership and Participation. (2003): p. 171.
[Against this position ... should not be overlooked.]
The collective nature of the state is morally neutral because collective action problems are only extensions of moral tenets applied to individual moral agents.
Werhane, Patricia (Director of the Institute for Business and Professional Ethics at DePaul University). Persons, Rights, and Corporations. (1985): p. 39.
[Even if not all ... could not occur.]
OFF:
The resolution is textually limited to possession.
Possession does not confer specific intent.
Even though nuclear weapons are a term of art, that does not preclude the possibility of intentionless possession.
While the use of objects can impose limits on action, the mere possession of such objects is necessitated by deontological ethics.
Ripstein, Arthur (Professor of Law and Philosophy at the University of Toronto). Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political Philosophy. 2009: p. 19-20.
[Innate right is ... and status relations.]





=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]