[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1ACs</span>= 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">*These are the most recent versions of the advantages/versions of the aff we have read---if you need 1AC cites you should email Eric Chen at: echen027@gmail.com---everyone must email Eric 4 times before you e-mail me, Teddy Kontopoulos.... not</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan Text---Most Recently Read at Emory</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The United States federal government should end United States military presence in the state of Japan for research, development and deployment of ballistic missile defense.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Status Quo/Inherency---Most Recently Read at Emory</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cooperation over further missile defense now</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ko, 10 (Ko Young Dae, contributor to Solidarity for Peace and Reunification of Korea, “U.S. Military Strategy on the Korean Peninsula and Missile Defense in Northeast Asia”, May 9, http://www.spark946.org/bugsboard/index.php)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The United States regards Japan ...range missiles launched from the Sea of Okhotsk.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China hates future missile defense—not squo missile defense</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> NTI, 07 (James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, “China's Opposition to US Missile Defense Programs”, Last Copyrighted 2007, http://www.nti.org/db/china/mdpos.htm#China%27s%20Opposition%20to%20TMD%20in%20Japan, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China's position on TMD...NTW system could defend all of Taiwan.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">BMD inevitably fails, can’t detect properly, impossible to hit, all information must be known, and countermeasures are too easy to construct – DoD tests prove</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lewis and Postol 10 George N. Lewis has a Ph.D. in experimental physics and is associate director of the Peace Studies Program at Cornell University. Theodore A. Postol is professor of science, technology, and national security policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a former scientific adviser to the chief of naval operations, “A Flawed and Dangerous U.S. Missile Defense Plan”, May, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_05/Lewis-Postol</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Less than five months later...decoys used in the IFT-1A and IFT-2 tests.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First Strike---Most Recently Read at Emory</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Missile defense causes Chinese development of mobile missiles---increases U.S. tracking efforts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Li & Nie, 09 - Li Bin, Director of the Arms Control Program and Professor of the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua University, and Nie Hongyi, officer in the People’s Liberation Army with an MA from China’s National Defense University and a Ph.D. in International Studies from Tsinghua University, May 22, 2009, “An Investigation of China – U.S. Strategic Stability,” online: http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/Li-and-Nie-translation-final-5-22-09.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Theoretically, U.S. development...interests of the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The U.S. perception that it can attack Chinese mobile missiles causes attempted preemption in a crisis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Zhang, 07 - Baohui Zhang, Associate Professor of Political Science, Lingnan University, Hong Kong, Summer 2007, “The modernization of Chinese nuclear forces and its impact on Sino-U.S. relations,” Asian Affairs: An American Review, Vol. 34, No. 2</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I disagree with Lieber and Press's...multiple reentry vehicles for two decades. (13)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A U.S. strike would fail---mobile missiles are survivable---guarantees Chinese retaliation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Li, 06 – Li Bin, Director of the Arms Control Program and Professor of the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua University, 2006, “Paper Tiger with Whitened Teeth,” China Security, Issue No. 4, online: http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=213&Itemid=8</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Using their models, Lieber and Press...would bring dire risks to the United States.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The strike destroys the environment—extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Takai, 09 — Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">What would happen if China...nuclear hard-liners.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">BMD destroys MAD</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Yu and Guangqian, 09 (Rong, Ph. D. candidate at the Institute of International Strategy and Development, School of Public Policy and Management, Tsinghua University. and Peng, editor-in-chief of Strategic Sciences and has long been engaged in research on military strategy and international affairs. “Nuclear No-First-Use Revisited”, http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=225&Itemid=8#rp10, THE)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In addition, the US Ballistic Missile Defense...even preventative nuclear attack.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, MAD makes nuclear war impossible</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Durr, 02 – Lieutenant Colonel of the U.S. Army (Charles, W., 4/9/02, “NUCLEAR DETERRENCE IN THE THIRD MILLENNIUM”, p. 2-3, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The fundamentals of nuclear...in such an event.6</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The U.S. would then counter-retaliate---causes complete destruction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lieber and Press, 07 - Keir A. Lieber, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, and Daryl G. Press, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, Winter 2007, “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of the Chinese Deterrent,” China Security, Issue No. 5, online: http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_5.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Third, in the midst of a high-stakes...far more extensive American strike.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Specifically targeting mobile missiles ensures full escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mulvenon, 02 – James Mulvenon, Deputy Director, Center for Asia-Pacific Policy, RAND Corporation, January 2002, “Missile Defense and the Taiwan Scenario,” online: http://www.stimson.org/china/pdf/CMDWP2.pdf</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If the road-mobile, solid-fueled...beyond human comprehension.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Straits Times, 00 (Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, l/n)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The high-intensity scenario...see the destruction of civilisation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Public pressure ensures future misunderstandings as well as escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> York 7 (Geoffrey, How a miscalculation could spell mayhem in Taiwan, Globe and Mail, 12/24, http://public.shns.com/node/29426</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The rhetoric on both sides has been ferocious...China's ability to control its own population is declining.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cruise Missiles---Most Recently Read at Emory</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Block-2A deployment specifically targets ballistic missiles</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hicks, 07 (Rear Admiral Alan B., appointed Program Director in November 2005, relieving RADM Kathleen Paige. Previously, RADM Hicks served as Deputy Commander, Warfare Systems Engineering, in the Naval Sea Systems Command and Commander, Naval Surface Warfare Center; commanding officer of the Aegis cruiser USS CAPE ST GEORGE (CG-71); Deputy Director for Combat Systems and Weapons in the Surface Warfare Directorate of the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations; and requirements and programmatic action officer in support of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC). 11/28, “Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense System - Status and Upgrades”, http://www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/573.pdf, THE)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Let’s talk about the Block IIA...to go into production in 2015.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That causes asymmetric responses from North Korea---particularly cruise missile development</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Dutra, 04 – Michael Dutra, Associate, White & Case LLP, 2004, “Strategic Myopia: The United States, Cruise Missiles, and the Missile Technology Control Regime,” Journal of Transnational Law & Policy, Vol. 14, No. 1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cruise missiles represent...choice for a state seeking long-range strike capability as the technology required for indigenous LACM development becomes easier to obtain.57</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">They will use cruise missiles early in a conflict, when the U.S. is still deploying---causes withdrawal</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Dutra, 04 – Michael Dutra, Associate, White & Case LLP, 2004, “Strategic Myopia: The United States, Cruise Missiles, and the Missile Technology Control Regime,” Journal of Transnational Law & Policy, Vol. 14, No. 1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Liddell Hart argues that...albeit less convenient, bases.53</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That destroys the foundation of U.S. hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lind, 07 - Michael Lind, senior fellow at the New America Foundation, May-June 2007, “Beyond American hegemony,” The National Interest, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_89/ai_n27268888/pg_2/?tag=content;col1</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">DURING THE Cold War, the United States...This is because the American public is not prepared to pay the costs necessary if the United States is to be a "hyperpower."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hegemony prevents nuclear war---withdrawal causes it</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kagan, 07 - Robert Kagan, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, August/September 2007, The Hoover Policy Review, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The jostling for status and influence...nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cruise Missiles Add-On---Hegemony</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The longer we wait the worse cruise missile threats grow—destroys U.S. air power, U.S. naval power, and causes nuclear terrorist attacks—it also causes the U.S. to have to withdraw forces abroad
Kueter and Kier, 07 – *President of the George C. Marshall Institute AND **Vice President of Lockheed Martin Corporation (*Jeff AND **David, 7/9/07, "The Cruise Missile Challenge", p. 6-11, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
So what is a cruise missile? There are two broad categories...nor is there budget for it. Thank you for your time.

Air power maintains peace in Korea—the alternative is war
Bechtol, 05- Ph.D. (Bruce, Air and Space Power Journal, “The Future of U.S. Airpower on the Korean Peninsula,” Fall, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj05/fal05/bechtol.html)
Transformation has come to the Korean...Korean Peninsula.

Escalation to global nuclear war
STRATFOR 10 (5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula, JMP)
So the real issue is the potential for escalation...escalates much further.

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction
Sid-Ahmed, 04 (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)
What would be the consequences of a nuclear...we will all be losers.

Naval power deters great power wars
Conway, Roughead and Allen, 07 – *General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps, **Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations, ***Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard (*James Conway, **Gary Roughead, ***Thad Allen, October 2007, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower”, p. 8-10, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower..with nuclear forces.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Transparency---Most Recently Read at Emory</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">BMD destroys U.S.-China dialogue over nuclear and military transparency---ensures inevitable U.S. attempts at cooperation will fail</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Chase, 10 – Michael Chase, Associate Research Professor and Director of the Mahan Scholars Program at the United States Naval War College, April 29, 2010, “The U.S.-China Strategic Security Relationship and the Nuclear Posture Review Report,” online: http://www.trumanproject.org/posts/2010/05/us-china-strategic-security-relationship-and-nuclear-posture-review-report</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Recently, some Chinese scholars...greater anxiety about nuclear transparency [16].</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Reassurance over missile defense cooperation between the U.S. and allies spills over to a broader U.S.-China nuclear transparency agreement</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Gruselle, 08 (Bruno, Senior Policy Analyst – Fondation pour la recherche stratégique in Paris, The New Triad, Disarmament and Strategic Stability, http://www.frstrategie.org/barreFRS/publications/rd/RD_20080108_eng.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Since the new triad...China from increasing risks related to the use of conventional American strategic forces.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">U.S.-China cooperation is generally high but not on transparency---risks global instability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> E.I., 10 – Express India, January 14, 2010, “Chinese military buildup concerns US lawmakers, administration,” online: http://www.expressindia.com/latest-news/Chinese-military-buildup-concerns-US-lawmakers--administration/567306/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Skelton said the US must work...falls short in the column of reassurance. Actions speak louder than words, he said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Transparency solves U.S.-China nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Zhang, 01 (Hui, Research Fellow – Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, “A Discussion of China's Nuclear Transparency Options”, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/inmm01-chinatrans.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China has taken the position...be struck between the nuclear transparency and opacity based on the demand for international security and national security.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chinese transparency stops miscalc</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Medcalf, 08 (Rory, Program Director for International Security – Lowy Institute, “Wicked Weapons: North Asia’s Nuclear Tangle”, http://www.lowyinstitute.org/Publication.asp?pid=1128)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">But a broader view of nuclear...None of these consequences is remotely in China’s interests.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The impact is nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Twomey, 09 – Professor at the Naval Postgraduate College (Christopher P., “Chinese-U.S. Strategic Affairs”, Arms Control Association, January/February 2009, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China and the United States..."rogue" nations. These too would undermine stability in an intense crisis.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lack of transparency causes U.S. hedging against Chinese ASATs</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Dowd, 09 (Alan W., Senior Fellow – Fraser Institute, “Surrendering Outer Space”, Hoover Policy Review, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/51510927.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Equally worrisome is the...lead to hedging against the unknown.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That causes preemptive U.S.-China space war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Martel and Yoshihara, 03, Profs of IR @ Naval War College and Tufts The Washington Quarterly, 26.4 (2003) 19-35, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/washington_quarterly/v026/26.4martel.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Strategists in the United States and in China...for both sides, and for the international community, would be extraordinary given that many states depend on satellites for their economic well-being.</span>
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Miscalculation---Most Recently Read in Blake Prelims</span>== 




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Currently deployed missile defense capabilities only threaten short-range and regional missiles, they have no affect on China’s long range ICBMs which is what they care about for deterrence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rubinstein, 07 – Washington DC consultant on US-Japan Defense Relations [Gregg A., Center for Pacific Asia Studies, “US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospects”, http://www.japanconsidered.com/OccasionalPapers/Rubinstein%20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Any discussion of BMD must at...efforts for some years to come.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, there’s a distinction – we remove what China hates</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> NTI, 07 (James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, “China's Opposition to US Missile Defense Programs”, Last Copyrighted 2007, http://www.nti.org/db/china/mdpos.htm#China%27s%20Opposition%20to%20TMD%20in%20Japan, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China's position on TMD...system could defend all of Taiwan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan solves Chinese perception</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Toki, 09 – M.A. in International Policy Studies from the Monterey Institute of International Studies and Project Manager and Research Associate in the Nonproliferation Education Program at CNS (Masako, “Missile defense in Japan”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, January 16th 2009, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/missile-defense-japan, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Regionally, China has been...China to join in this endeavor.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Absent plan China accelerates modernization</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Yoshihara, 10 (Toshi, associate professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, PhD in international relations, “CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN,” http://www.andrewerickson.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/Chinese-Missile-Strategy_Yoshihara_Toshi_NWCR_2010-Summer.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Several intervening factors...reasons to worry about these complications.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That causes miscalc</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Chase, 09 (Dr. Michael S., Assistant Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department – Naval War College, et al., “Chinese Theater and Strategic Missile Force Modernization and its Implications for the United States,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 23, Iss. 1, Feb., http://www.informaworld.com. proxy-remote.galib.uga.edu/ smpp/section?content= a908916446&fulltext=713240928</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">At the same time...vastly more capable nuclear power.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The impact is nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Twomey, 09 – Professor at the Naval Postgraduate College (Christopher P., “Chinese-U.S. Strategic Affairs”, Arms Control Association, January/February 2009, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China and the United States are...in an intense crisis.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Taiwan---Most Recently Read in Blake Prelims</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan solves perception of intervention in Taiwan conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Zhang, 05 (Hui, Research associate in the Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government., December, “Action/Reaction: U.S. Space Weaponization and China”, http://www.armscontrol.org/print/1943, THE)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A Loss of Strategic Nuclear Deterrent Capability...potentially with Taiwan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It’s only a question of perception—plan breaks down the illusion of an alliance with Taiwan that causes China-Taiwan war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hughes, 06 (Christopher W., Principal Research Fellow & Acting Co-Director at the Centre for the Study of Globalisation and Regionalisation at the University of Warwick, December, “Ballistic Missile Defence and US-Japan and US-UK Alliances Compared”, http://www.garnet-eu.org/fileadmin/documents/working_papers/1106.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Instead, the principal security...further momentum for a regional arms race.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">BMD forces a Chinese first strike on Taiwan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Chase, 09 (Dr. Michael S., Assistant Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department – Naval War College, et al., “Chinese Theater and Strategic Missile Force Modernization and its Implications for the United States,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 23, Iss. 1, Feb., http://www.informaworld.com. proxy-remote.galib.uga.edu/ smpp/section?content= a908916446&fulltext=713240928</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A third and perhaps equally important...in a showdown over Taiwan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No defense—they’ll break their NFU</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Chase, 09 (Dr. Michael S., Assistant Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department – Naval War College, et al., “Chinese Theater and Strategic Missile Force Modernization and its Implications for the United States,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 23, Iss. 1, Feb., http://www.informaworld.com. proxy-remote.galib.uga.edu/ smpp/section?content= a908916446&fulltext=713240928</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Scenario Two: Crisis-driven...be part of Chinese planning.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We control inevitability—peaceful reunification is only possible with the plan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hurd, 09 (Dale, CBN News Senior Reporter, Chinese Attack on Taiwan: War for U.S.?, March 25, http://www.cbn.com/cbnnews/us/2009/March/Chinese-Attack-on-Taiwan-War-for-US-/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Beijing recently authorized...never start in the first place.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The alternative is extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Straits Times, 00 (Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, l/n)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The high-intensity scenario...we would see the destruction of civilisation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That’s the most probable impact</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shirk, 08 – Ho Miu Lam Professor of China and Pacific Relations at the University of California-San Diego (Susan, China Fragile Superpower, p. 2, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Taiwan is an issue that...political survival depended on it.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Escalation</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lieber and Press, 07 – *Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame AND Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Military Consultant for the DOD (*Keir A., Daryl G., “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of the Chinese Deterrent”, China Security, Winter 2007, p. 72-74, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A second line of criticism...China want – may in fact be grave.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No impact defense</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shirk, 08 – Ho Miu Lam Professor of China and Pacific Relations at the University of California-San Diego (Susan, China Fragile Superpower, p. 11, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">But in a crisis —or...into a military confrontation.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Critical Version---Most Recently Read in Octofinals of Ohio Valley</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We read the same plan text, inherency and the first strike advantage.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Second Contention is the Truth</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Actively resisting the drive for missile defense is part of deconstructing violent national identities and security politics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cristina Masters, Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Manchester, March 2003, YCISS Working Paper Number 23, online: http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/WP23-Masters.pdf, accessed December 22, 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">These metaphorical narratives – these...effect our own destabilisations and subversions.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">BMD is biggest example of U.S. militarism and attempt to control the planet</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Heriberto Cairo, Professor of Political and Sociological Studies, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 2006, Alternatives 31, p. 300-301</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Oxford English Dictionary...and which the current administration is determined to achieve.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aff is the key mechanism through which we construct our political imaginary</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cristina Masters, Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Manchester, March 2003, YCISS Working Paper Number 23, online: http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/WP23-Masters.pdf, accessed December 22, 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The temporal aporias seem to...the politics of missile defence (28).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Drive for missile defense is founded on the belief in a threat presented by an Other who must be annihilated</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cristina Masters, Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Manchester, March 2003, YCISS Working Paper Number 23, online: http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/WP23-Masters.pdf, accessed December 22, 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The shield as prophylatic, thus...although the allusion is always present.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Public debate over BMD is opens up space for excluded and co-opted voices – key to challenge technocratic security domination and securitization and reshape policy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mitchell, 01 (Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Evangelista’s analysis of the...they can also be seen as virtual referenda on the relative merits of technocratic versus democratic forms of governance.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We need to engage misleading government BMD rhetoric before it develops an international political constituency—we are a pre-requisite to their K</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mitchell, 01 (Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The legacy of strategic deception...it impossible to turn off” BMD.37</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We expose faulty BMD systems—not voting aff results in overconfident foreign policies that causes their impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mitchell, 01 (Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Initially, it is worth noting that...Surabaya view Tokyo’s new defense debate as a smoke screen for rearmament.”48</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aff challenges threat inflation and disrupts Cold War rhetoric</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mitchell, 01 (Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aside from the fact that revival...co-opt critical themes raised by dissenters.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The Third Contention is How to Weigh Impacts</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Specificity comes first</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Colin S. Gray Review of International Studies (2003), 29, 285–295 Copyright © British International Studies Association</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I interpret Payne’s argument...in praise of American strategy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Death count comes first</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Charles Fried “Rights and Wrongs as Absolute.” Absolutism and Its Consequentialist Critics. p. 76. Ed. Haber 1994</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even within such boundaries...absolute but as categorical.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Utilitarian evaluation first</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jeffrey C. Isaac, Professor of Political Science and director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life at Indiana University, Spring 2002, Dissent, Ends, means, and politics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Power is not a dirty word...undermines political effectiveness.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Positivism is best</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Houghton, 08 – Associate Professor of International Relations Theory at the University of Central Florida (David Patrick, “Positivism ‘vs’ Postmodernism: Does Epistemology Make a Difference?”, International Politics, 2008, July 22nd 2010, p. 45, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">As long ago as 1981, Yale...international relations scene today.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, empirics are sufficient</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Owen, 02 (David Owen, Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Commenting on the ‘philosophical...the first and second dangers, and so a potentially vicious circle arises.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Life without value is better than death</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kenneth Waltz (Institute of War and Peace Studied; Father of realism) 1959 Man, The State, and War</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">St. Augustine had observed...Instead these characteristics are the necessary result of following reason.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It’s a personal choice – external actors can’t decide the value of anyone’s life.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Lisa Schwartz 2004 Medical Ethics http://www.fleshandbones.com/readingroom/viewchapter.cfm?ID=399</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Those who choose to...must treat persons as rational and as ends in themselves.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Utilitarianism allows a value to life</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C.L Sheng. (PHd Tamkang U. Taipei) A Defense of Utilitarianism. 2004. p. 156-7.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I will now explain the...not depends on the number of persons alone.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Life outweighs all considerations when threatened by war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kenneth Waltz (Institute of War and Peace Studied; Father of realism) 1959 Man, The State, and War</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If empirical investigations...student of international relations, has, especially in periods of crisis, bedeviled political philosophers as well.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The ethical practice of prediction and prevention builds communal ties and energizes a citizen base capable of pressuring for real solutions to extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fuyuki Kurasawa Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004 Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rather than bemoaning the...the way to public deliberation about the construction of an alternative world order (IV).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Governments are forced to make uncertain decisions which require policy predictions</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Robert Gooden (philsopher at the Research School of the Social Sciences) 1995 Utilitarianism as Public Philosophy. P. 62-63</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Consider, first, the...alternative possible general rules.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Difficulty of prediction is just a reason to intellectually test scenarios – ask for more applications of their arguments, because that is what their evidence assumes occurs.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fuyuki Kurasawa Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004** Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> When engaging in the labor...trying to anticipate and prepare for possible and avoidable sources of harm to our successors</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>