[[toc]]
===Cites=== 
cite requests: aff- [[mailto:alexander.fieldslefkovic@gmail|alexander.fieldslefkovic@gmail]];
neg-
<span style="color: #0066cc; display: block;">[[mailto:m.mccuedebate@gmail.com|m.mccuedebate@gmail.com]]</span>
=Affirmative= 

===UT 1AC:===
Plan


Plan Text: The United States federal government should end nearly all of its naval presence in Japan.

Relations Adv 1AC

Advantage 1 is US-Japan Relations
Rising public opposition in Japan to US naval presence is straining the relationship – a substantial reduction of presence will solidify the U.S.-Japan alliance in the future
Shorrock 10-4-2010 (http://www.ipsnewsasia.net/bridgesfromasia/node/21, “Public Pressure to Shape US Military presence in Region) 
A combination of public opposition… Japan should take on a military role." 

U.S. Naval presence is a particularly volatile issue 
McCurry 06 (Justin, The Guardian, 1-7-06,  Murder fuels Japan's hostility to US navy presence, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/jan/07/usa.japan)DR

The decision to hand the sailor over…thousands of people on to the streets in protest. 


New Japanese foreign policy guarantees public opposition will translate into action
Mereand 09 (Richard, National Security Analyst with the Association with the United States Army’s (AUSA’s) Institute of Land Warfare, 12-29-09, The Evolution of the U.S.-Japan Alliance, http://www.ausa.org/publications/ilw/ilw_pubs/nationalsecuritywatch/Documents/NSW09-4.pdf)DR 

The Democratic Party of Japan… strongly assert Japan’s will.”3


Japan can’t perceive itself as a base of US adventurism, only fuels hostilities
Blumenthal 05 (Dan, Resident Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, No Date Given, The Revival of the U.S.-Japanese Alliance, http://www.aei.org/outlook/22027)DR
	
However, the United States…Tokyo's independent strategic concerns.

Political tensions within the DPJ jeopardizes the effectiveness of the alliance.
Kyodo News International 9-16-2010 (http://newsystocks.com/news/3697375, “FOCUS, Progress in US-Japan Relations hinge on Kan’s leadership”)
Naoto Kan's victory in Tuesday's… whether it's diplomacy or otherwise.'
Collapse of the relationship makes effective cooperation over a litany of issues impossible
The Atlantic Council of the United States, 02 (http://www.rips.or.jp/english/publications/special_reports/pdf/new_frontiers.pdf, “ New Frontiers for US-Japan Security Relations”) 
Reducing Friction in the Alliance…of such a relationship.

Effective US-Japan relations are key to Asian stability
INSS 2K (Insitute for National Strategic Studies- National Defense University, The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)

Major war in Europe…bilateral security ties.

GPW Adv


Advantage 2 is Great Power Wars:

US naval presence in Japan will escalate into great power conflicts with China and Russia – territorial disputes.
Rozoff 11-4 (Rick, author and geopolitical analyst, 11-4-10,  Washington-Tokyo Axis: U.S. Supports Japan, Confronts China And Russia Over Island Disputes, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21769)DR

In a six-day span the U.S. … an Asia with several nuclear powers. 


Two scenarios:

First US-China War:

Specifically, the development and deployment of the DF-21D guarantees a fatal naval miscalculation between the US and China. 
Yoshihara ‘10 (Dr. Toshi, Associate Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, former Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Ph.D. International Relations, The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, M.A. International Relations, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, B.S. International Relations, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 7-1-2010, “Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing,” Naval War College Review, (... denotes non-US-ASCII text omitted) http://www.faqs.org/periodicals/201007/2046727461.html) 

In recent years, defense analysts …against Beijing's emerging missile strategy. 


Extinction.  
Straits Times, 2K (June 25)

Conflict on such a scale…we would see the destruction of civilisation.

DETERRENCE AND CONTAINMENT GOOD ARGS ARE BASED ON FLAWED METHODOLOGY.  CHINA RISE DOESN’T THREATEN U.S. POWER OR MAKE CONFLICT INEVITABLE.  

SHAMBAUGH, 05 (DAVID, SENIOR FELLOW AT THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION, INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, WINTER)

SOME OBSERVERS IN THE UNITED STATES… ASCENDANCE IN ASIAN AFFAIRS. 



Scenario Two is Russia:
 
Direct US-Russia war is the largest magnitude conflict
Bostrom 2 (Nick, professor of philosophy - Oxford University, March, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html
A much greater existential risk emerged…that we will encounter in the 21st century.


Independent of direct conflict, sour US-Russian relations embolden Syria
Ghattas, 08 (Sam F. Ghattas. “Syria takes advantage of Russia-U.S. tensions; Iran may be next” Associated Press, Aug 26, 2008, http://www.startribune.com/templates/Print_This_Story?sid=27439334)

Syria's President Bashar Assad …against Israel and the U.S." 

This leads to Syrian Iskander Missiles, evoking aggression and making war inevitable with Israel
Kass, 05 (Lee- analyst in the research and analysis division of Science Applications International Corporation; “Syria after Lebanon: The Growing Syrian Missile Threat” Middle East Quarterly. Fall 2005. http://www.meforum.org/article/755)

The Syrian regime's efforts …its ability to wage a future war 

Nuclear war
Strategic Analysis, 2K [Sharad Joshi. “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA March 2000 (Vol. XXIII No. 12) http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_00jos01.html]

The Syrian chemical arsenal should be considered….ripe for a nuclear Armageddon

===GDS 1AC:=== 

(same as Greenhill 1AC with new China adv scenario)

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Scenario 3 is the Economy: </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">China will retaliate after deployment of carriers by dumping large amounts of US treasury bonds. </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Forsythe, 8/10, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9pt;">Michael, reporter for Bloomberg News, 8/10/2010, “</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9pt;">Chinese General Says U.S. Carrier in Yellow Sea May Result in Retaliation”, [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-10/chinese-general-says-u-s-carrier-in-yellow-sea-may-result-in-retaliation.html]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">This collapses the economy. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Morrison and Labonte, 08, (</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9pt;">Wayne M., Specialist in International Trade and Finance Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, and Marc, Specialist in Macroeconomic Policy Government and Finance Division; 1/9/2008, “China’s Holdings of U.S. Securities: Implications for the U.S. Economy”, [[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/99496.pdf]])


</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Economic collapse causes nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">O'Donnell, 09</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9pt;">(Sean, Baltimore Republican Examiner, a graduate student at the University of Baltimore studying law and ethics, B.A. in History from the University of Maryland, a Squad Leader in the Marine Corps Reserve, Will this recession lead to World War III? February 26, http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III#comments)




</span>
</span>
===Greenhill 1AC:=== 

Plan: The United States federal government should terminate the presence of its navy in the Republic of Korea.

Advantage 1 is Jeju Island:

<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">The Times Record, 10 </span>__****<span style="color: black;">(“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2,</span>**<span style="color: black;"> http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt) </span></span><span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to __…__on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Jeju Weekly, 9 </span>__**<span style="color: black;">(November 26, http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426) </span></span><span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">Some of __Jeju’s treasures are__clearly visible, …. It is not just __<span style="background: yellow;">imperative</span>__for environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Red Orbit, 10 </span>__**<span style="color: black;">(Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26, http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and …</span>__<span style="color: black;">who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."
</span>
**<span style="color: black;">And – Extinction</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Craig, 3</span>__**<span style="color: black;">(Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis) </span></span><span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for …__wherever possible__ - even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Advantage two: China</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Deteriorating relations between the U.S. and China are paving the way for conflict. In particular, strike-group naval exercises in the waters surrounding South Korea guarantee confrontation.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Rozoff, 8/16</span>__**<span style="color: black;">/2010 (Rick, Author and Geopolitical Analyst, “U.S.-China Conflict: From War of Words to Talk of War”, Eurasia Review, http://www.eurasiareview.com/201008157048/us-china-conflict-from-war-of-words-to-talk-of-war.html) </span>
__<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">Relations between the U.S. and China have been steadily deteriorating</span>__<span style="color: black;"> …__The noose is tightening around China and the nation’s military knows it.__
</span>
**<span style="color: black;">And – These naval exercises doom our ability to influence China’s emergence towards a source of stability and peace in the region. Using our naval presence in South Korea to support a maritime containment strategy of China destroys relations and will dangerously escalate tensions.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Reuters, 8/13</span>__**<span style="color: black;">/2010 (Chinese Admiral Says U.S. Drill Courts Confrontation, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67B11W20100813?type=politicsNews) </span>
__<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">A senior Chinese</span>____<span style="color: black;"> military <span style="background: yellow;">strategist called</span> planned <span style="background: yellow;">U.S. naval</span> …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> can see that this carries something of a warning to China," wrote Yang.
</span>
**<span style="color: black;">And – China’s rise as a regional power is inevitable – the question is whether the U.S. and China cooperate to resolve global problems or compete through adherence to out-dated concepts of deterrence. Only the plan facilitates a healthy, stable relationship that is necessary to avoid all-out war.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Yi, 8/13</span>__**<span style="color: black;">/2010 (Yang, Rear Admiral and Former Director of the Institute for Strategic Studies at the People’s Liberation Army National Defense University, Cold War Mindset Harms Peace, http://www.hrana.org/articles.asp) </span>
__<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">The</span>____<span style="color: black;"> recent <span style="background: yellow;">decision by the U</span></span>__<span style="color: black;">nited __<span style="background: yellow;">S</span>__tates __<span style="background: yellow;">to involve</span> its …__ __if the two powers really want <span style="background: yellow;">to avoid confrontation.</span>__ </span>
**<span style="color: black;">And – Failure to allow China to rise peacefully ensures catastrophic nuclear war.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Eland, 5</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Ivan, Coexisting With A Rising China, April 11, HTTP:WWW.INDEPENDENT.ORG/NEWSROOM/ARTICLE.ASP?ID=1494) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">Instead of emulating the policies of pre-World War I Britain … future catastrophicwar or even a nuclear conflagration.</span>__

**<span style="color: black;">And – Escalation is guaranteed. US-China war causes extinction.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Straits Times, 2k</span>__**<span style="color: black;">(June 25) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">Conflict </span>__<span style="color: black;">on such a scale __would embroil other countries__ far and ….__we would see the destruction of civilisation__.
</span>
**<span style="color: black;">And – Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Reuters, 8/17</span>__**<span style="color: black;">/2010 (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">The game of military bluff that China and the U</span>__<span style="color: black;">nited __S__tates __…__ the People's Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday.
</span>
**<span style="color: black;">And – Independent of direct U.S.-China war, good relations prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict throughout Asia</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Conable and Lampton, 93</span>__**<span style="color: black;">(Barber B, President Emeritus of the World Bank, David, President of the National Committee, China: the Coming Power, Foreign Affairs, December/January, Lexis) </span></span><span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">Regionally American interests are both numerous and … of the increasing importance the region attaches to building positive ties to the P.R.C.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Dibb, 1</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP:WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM) </span></span><span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">The __areas of maximum danger and … Forum <span style="background: yellow;">have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises</span>__.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And – Bad relations will cause China to militarize space.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Pike, 98</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (John, Director of the Space Policy Project with the Federation of American Scientists, FNS, June 25, Lexis) </span>
We live in a real world in which the art of decision making lies not in choosing obvious and …__<span style="color: black;"> and a critical player in the effort to extend human presence to the Moon, Mars, and beyond</span>__.

WWW.ISISUK.DEMON.CO.UK/0811/ISIS/UK/BMD/NO6_PAPER.HTML) </span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace …__a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen__.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And – Their deterrence disad is a non-starter. Deterrence will inevitably fail between the U.S. and China – we can either peacefully move away from attempting to deter China now, or we must accept the inevitable, catastrophic collapse of our deterrent relationship in the short-term future.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Sayers, 10</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Eric, Master of Science Candidate in the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University, “Miliatry Dissuasion: A Framework for Influencing PLA Procurement Trends”, NDU Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/military-dissuasion.html) </span>
__<span style="background: yellow; color: black;">The PLA</span>____<span style="color: black;"> believes America's ability to project power is …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> observed almost a decade ago, __<span style="background: yellow;">deterrence</span>__ alone __<span style="background: yellow;">cannot suffice <span style="background: yellow;">as the guiding mantra of U.S. defense strategy in the Asia-Pacific.</span></span>__7
</span>
**<span style="color: black;">And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Shambaugh, 5</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">Some observers </span>__<span style="color: black;">in the United States, however, __see China’s Asian …__ __These are essential points to bear in mind when considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs.__ </span>
</span>
===<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Georgia;">**A2: Reps K**</span>=== 

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Georgia;">**Debate should only include discussions that are policy relevant- their K marginalizes itself out of politics and is useless**</span>
<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Joseph **Nye,** **09,** professor at Harvard University and former dean of the Harvard Kennedy School. , BA suma cum laude Princeton, PhD Harvard, Former Chair National Intelligence Council, Former Asst. Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, you know who he is, http:, www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/12/AR2009041202260_pf.html 4-13-0**9**

President __Obama__ has __appointed__ …. the trends in academic life seem to be headed in the opposite direction. </span></span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">**__4__**<span style="font-weight: normal;">__.__ </span></span>**Changing reps hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and structures**
**Tuathail, 96** (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)

__While theoretical debates ….__patterned mess that is human history.</span>
</span>
===<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">A2: Consult Russia CP</span>=== 
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Perm do both: Nonbinding consultation solves best. </span>__**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="cite">Daily Oklahoman</span>, 01 </span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">WITH his arrival in Spain….ruffling some feathers along the way.
</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Russia will say no- will join US naval exercises to deter North Korea </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Reuters, 10,**news agency, 5/27/2010, “Russia plans big naval exercise off North Korea”, </span>[[http://uk.reuters.com/article/idUKTRE64Q3KI20100527]]</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 7.5pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">__Russia will hold large-scale….__adequate by the international community." </span></span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Russia says no- trying to contain China </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Colibasanu, 07,** Antonia, correspondent for STRATFOR, “//The Axis of Oil Russia's Mineral-rich Diplomacy”, http://samvak.tripod.com/brief-russiakorea01.html//
</span>
</span><span style="display: block; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Russia' interest in North Korea….nothing else to offer
(except arms). </span>
===A2: China War Good=== 
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="color: black;">Turn: </span>Chinese space technologies undermine U.S. hegemony – disrupts balance of power in East Asia and causes Chinese development of ASATs. </span>**

[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6W5V-49CRMSJ-C&_user=1111158&_handle=V-WA-A-W-WW-MsSAYWW-UUA-U-AAAYEAAYCW-AAAZVEWZCW-AAZWCCUVV-WW-U&_fmt=full&_coverDate=12%2F31%2F2003&_rdoc=9&_orig=browse&_srch=%23toc%236580%232003%23999529995%23450520%21&_cdi=6580&view=c&_acct=C000051676&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=1111158&md5=e0326310a17397ea22d7d9209221ac43#vt1|**__Murray__**]]**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">and Antonellis ‘03 </span>__**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">(William Murray, analyst at Science Applications International Corporation specializing in East Asia, Robert Antonellis, analyst with the U.S. government, Orbis, “China’s Space Program” Autumn, 2003)

In the near future, the also intends….__<span style="background: yellow;">military forces that depend upon it</span>__<span style="background: yellow;">.,</span> </span>[[http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleURL&_udi=B6W5V-49CRMSJ-C&_user=1111158&_handle=V-WA-A-W-WW-MsSAYWW-UUA-U-AAAYEAAYCW-AAAZVEWZCW-AAZWCCUVV-WW-U&_fmt=full&_coverDate=12%2F31%2F2003&_rdoc=9&_orig=browse&_srch=%23toc%236580%232003%23999529995%23450520%21&_cdi=6580&view=c&_acct=C000051676&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=1111158&md5=e0326310a17397ea22d7d9209221ac43#fn21|21]]

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">6. Ground troops are comparatively more important - </span>**
<span class="Underline">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Kim 99**—Associate Professor, Institute of Foreign Affairs (Sung, U.S. Military Presence in a Unified Korea, www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc, AMiles) </span>__

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Nevertheless, a drawback of this scenario….could harm U.S.-China relations. </span>__</span>
</span>
=Negative= 

===<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC Cap K</span>=== 

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The affirmative’s act of withdrawal is only a token gesture aimed at making U.S. imperialism seem benign in order to buy of resistance. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="cite">**Gowan 4** </span>[Peter, Professor of International Relations at London Metropolitan University, “Triumphing toward International Disaster: The Impasse in American Grand Strategy, Critical Asian Studies,” </span>[[http://www.socialistresistance.co.uk/Triumphing%20toward%20International%20Disaster.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">]

The Problems of Rebuilding …. __monetary and financial instabilities__.
</span>
<span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Increasing the sovereignty of other nations, allows the U.S. to futher capitalism absent direct intervention </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="cite">**Kiely 5** </span>(Ray, Professor of International Politics, Queen Mary University of London, UK, Senior Lecturer in Development Studies, SOAS, University of London, The Changing Face of Anti-Globalization Politics: Two (and a Half) Tales of Globalization and Anti-Globalization, Globalizations; May2005, Vol. 2 Issue 1, p134-150, 17p, http://web.ebscohost.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=2&hid=9&sid=1f1398b6-fb2d-43d0-8fbf-23531a469b4b%40sessionmgr4

</span>
</span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">These comments on the ….</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">rights and freedom—is poor.


</span>
</span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 1.4in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**Capitalism makes extinction inevitable – its focus on growth makes ecological decline inevitable, triggering multiple scenarios for extinction.**
**Kovel** **2**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> [Joel, Alger Hiss Professor At Bard, The Enemy of Nature, Zed Books, p. 22-24]

</span>
</span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.5in 0pt 0in;">__<span style="background: yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">The scenario of ecological collapse</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">place behind its walls.
</span>
</span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The alternative is to reject the affirmative as an instance of capital– only through a radical rejection of the system can we avoid extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Herod 4**(James, author of several books on capitalism, Getting Free, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm)

It is time to try to …shape of their social world. </span>
</span>
===﻿Tribes CP vs Afghanistan=== 
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Text: The United States federal government should alter the counterinsurgency strategy in Afghanistan to focus on protecting tribes and other local actors, cooperating with them, and helping to establish “community watch” programs.

The counterplan gets the tribes on board which is empirically the only way to achieve stability – creates popular support for the central government and organizes additional people to fight the insurgents. </span></span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">Jones 9[Seth G., political scientist at the RAND corporation and professor at Georgetown, author of “Graveyard of Empires: America’s War in Afghanistan,” “Going Local: The Key to Afghanistan The U.S.’s strategy of building a centralized state is doomed to failinalandoftribes,”WallStreetJournal,August7, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204908604574336402390524212.html]]</span><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The reality, then, is that the United States is stuck in Afghanistan…with the central government. </span></span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Taliban also exploits our failure to engage tribes and uses them to gain support and takeover other tribes.</span>
Jones 9[Seth G., political scientist at the RAND corporation and professor at Georgetown, author of “Graveyard of Empires: America’s War in Afghanistan,” “Going Local: The Key to Afghanistan The U.S.’s strategy of building a centralized state is doomed to fail in a land of tribes,” Wall Street Journal, August 7, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204908604574336402390524212.html]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">After the overthrow… after the September 11, 2001 attacks. </span>
===﻿NATO DA vs Afghanistan=== 


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">analyst in European Affairs (12/3/2009, Vincent and Paul, “NATO in Afghanistan: A Test of the Transatlantic Alliance”, Congressional Research Center, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33627.pdf]])

<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">__NATO’s mission in Afghanistan…__</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> since the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan.3
</span>
</span></span><span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">NATO key to prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict </span>
Jackson 99

– President of the US Committee on NATO (4/23/1999, Bruce, Policy Review, [[@http://www.policyreview.org/apr99/jackson_print.html]]) </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">NATO is at the center of all U.S. military strategies… expenditures at near wartime levels</span>
===1NC START DA=== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">A. UNIQUENESS -- WILL PASS – NOW KEY TO ENSURE GOP VOTES. </span>
AP 6/11
**/10.**


<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">A key US Senate committee will vote</span></span> on a landmark nuclear arms treaty with Russia <span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">before</span></span> lawmakers leave for their monthlong <span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">August</span></span> break, the panel's top two members said Thursday. "We plan to hold a …. the US arsenal.
Obama cannot make meaningful changes to US policy in the Koreas without sacrificing anther part of his overloaded agenda. </span><span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">Shen, 09 (Dingli, Professor of International Relations, Executive Dean of the Institute of International Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai, & Director of Center for American Studies at Fudan University, October, “Cooperative Denuclearization toward North Korea”, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 32 No. 4, pg. 181, FT & RV)</span><span style="display: block; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Washington has long viewed North … regards to its nuclear program. </span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">PC KEY TO START PASSAGE. </span>
Sharp
<span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">, 8/28/0</span>
9
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(travis, military policy analyst at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, where he specializes in defense budgeting, military policy, and congressional involvement in national security, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/local-priorities-vs-national-interests-arms-control]]) </span>
</span>While beliefs
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">about national…<span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">effort</span> from the White House</span>. C. IMPACT -- START KEY TO SOLVE ACCIDENTS, THEFT, PROLIF AND RELATIONS </span>
Montreal Gazette 9
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">. [July 4, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” -- [[http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor|http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor ]]Still, Blair and many ….buried by them," Blair said. THE IMPACT IS EXTINCTION. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">American Prospect</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">, 2/26/<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">01</span></span> </span><span style="color: #333333;">The bitter </span><span class="underline0">disputes over</span><span style="color: #333333;">….war by checklist, by rote."</span>
</span>
===Extensions- START=== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">A failure to get START done = more terror and bioweapons </span>
VOIGHT 6/11/
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">
10. [Brian, Truman Fellow, senior adviser to the bipartisan Partnership for a Secure America, “Get behind a new START” Courier Journal]
It will also help protect….__<span class="underline0"><span style="background: yellow;">the next step in nuclear leadership</span>. </span>__Will pass-Obama will appease Republicans David </span>
Drezner 7-23
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">-2010, Daniel W. Drezner is professor of international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University,
http://drezner.foreignpolicy.com/blog/2188

Peter Baker provides some lay of the land….petty victories.]Am I missing anything? </span></span><span style="display: block; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Obama recently committed to South Korea – regardless of outcome, the plan is perceived as weakness </span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Gene </span>
</span>Healy**, vice president at the Cato Institute and author of The Cult of the Presidency, “US Out of South Korea”** 6-29
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**-10 http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11938**</span></span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">When America signed a mutual ….in an allegedly "mutual" defense pact.</span>
</span>Plan’s massively unpopular – Congress, Pentagon, and South Korea lobbies oppose

Harrison 2002
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">[Selig S., Senior Scholar – Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and Director of the Asia Program – Center for International Policy, “Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement,” p. 180-182] </span></span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Why has <span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">the <span style="background: yellow;">presence of U.S. ground</span>….</span>__</span>commands have their headquarters in the United States.

</span>
</span>Feffer 4.
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">**John Feffer, blogger, “Bring Our Troops Home,” http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig5/feffer1.html**
**__North Korea has argued that it….push through a complete withdrawal__.**


**popualrity is not key to the agenda**



</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-weight: normal;">Detroit News, 2005</span>__ (January 23, Lexis</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Presidents …. nothing's going to stop him. </span>__



</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">empirically – popularity does not build capital </span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">

**<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-weight: normal;">Norquist, 2002</span>__ (Grover, The American Enterprise Institute, September 1, Lexis)</span>**
**<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">President __Bush's approval rating__….helped him pass any important bills.</span>**
</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">WINS DON’T SPILL OVER – CLINTON PROVES. </span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Nather 8</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">. [11/9 -- David, CQ Staff Writer, CQ Today Online News, 2008, http://www.cqpolitics.com/wmspage.cfm?docID=news-000002984617&parm1=5&cpage=3] </span></span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Taking up measures such as….__<span style="background: yellow;">victories were out of the way</span>.__

</span>
</span>
===<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC Korea Engagement CP </span>=== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">Text: The United States federal government should -establish and publicly portray a willingness to engage North Korea diplomatically in a reciprocal process -convince other regional actors to participate in a multilateral security solution with negotiations being open and scheduled on a continuous basis.
-offer Russia the mediator role
-propose the creation of a body that organizes economic assistance to North Korea with the goal of system transformation </span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">This solves Korean War better than the aff and avoids the (deterrence/economy) DA </span>
Kinne 4
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**– US Army Colonel (5/3/2004, Gary, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea”, US Army War College Strategy Research Project, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691) MGM**

**__The U__nited __S__tates, __through…. potential world super power.__**

</span>
</span>
===<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">A2: Korea War Adv</span>=== 
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Georgia;">1. Kim Jong-il is rational and won’t risk suicidal war – risk of war is extremely low </span>
<span style="color: black; display: block;">Marshall 9 – </span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span style="color: black;">Asia Political Risk Correspondent (10/27/2009, Andrew, “Why it's sane for Kim Jong-il to be crazy” http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE59Q0BE20091027)</span>**
</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">For those who see </span>__[[http://www.reuters.com/places/north-korea|__North Korea__]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">__<span style="color: black;">n….</span>____<span style="background: yellow;">throw away his best cards</span>____.__



</span>
</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">2. War won’t escalate – </span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt 520.5pt;">
**Reporter (5/25/2010, Warren and Jonathan, “Will North Korea's saber rattling lead to war?”, [[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/05/25/94820/will-north-koreas-saber-rattling.html#ixzz0ycjuaAZf]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">) MGM</span>**
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Still, __<span style="background: yellow;">Brown and</span> other former….<span style="background: yellow;">presidential residence</span>__, the Blue House.
</span>
</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">B. China would intervene</span><span style="background: yellow; display: block;">BMO, 10</span>
– (Business Monitor Online, 3/26/10, “South’s Ship Sunk: What’s Next?”, Lexis)


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">'Were North and South Korea to…..__<span style="background: yellow;"> South</span> militarily__ in any West Sea clash.'



</span>
</span></span>North Korean bioweapons wouldn’t use their bioweapons – at worst they are weak and their use would be limited


**Federation of American Scientists, no date** – with Nobel Laureates on its Board of Sponsors, FAS provides timely, nonpartisan technical analysis on complex global issues that hinge on science and technology (“Biological Weapons Program”, http://www.fas.org/nuke/guide/dprk/bw/index.html) MGM

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">North Korea continues to have….__smallpox, yellow fever and others.__


</span>
</span>
===Extensions vs Korea War Adv=== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">Biotechnology solves for the impacts they claim from bioweapons </span>
Bostrom 7 **(Nick, Ph.D. Professor of Applied Ethics at Oxford University, and the Director of the Oxford Future of Humanity Institute, “The Future of Humanity”, No specific date 2007, [[http://www.fhi.ox.ac.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0007/10222/future_of_humanity.pdf]]**
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia;">, MBIBAS)

__The same <span style="background: yellow;">technologies</span> that ….__ also affect the human condition in many other ways.

</span>
===A2: Regionalism Adv=== 


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Turn – Strong alliance with South Korea is key to multilateral security regime
</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hyug-baeg 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> – professor at the department of political science and diplomacy at Korea University (October 2008, Im Hyug-baeg, U.S.-Korea Institute Working Paper Series, “How Korea Could Become a Regional Power in Northeast Asia: Building a Northeast Asian Triad,” [[http://uskoreainstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2008/10/USKI-WP4.pdf]]) </span>**

</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Moreover, a strong alliance between the U.S….of the regional security networks.7



Withdrawal of __ground forces__ will deck relations with South Korea
</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kelly 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">- Assistant Professor</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span class="apple-style-span">Department of Political Science & Diplomacy Pusan National University</span></span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[December 18, 2009, Robert E Kelly,</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span style="color: black;">Asian Security Blog</span>, “<span style="color: black;">Should the US Pull Out of South Korea (2): No</span>,” </span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Foreign Policy</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Korea (South)</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">United States</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">http://asiansecurityblog.wordpress.com/2009/12/18/should-the-us-pull-out-of-south-korea-2-no/</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">]</span></span>

</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">2. It also means…if the US is not.



Asian cooperation high now – solves their impacts
</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Xinhua 10 </span>**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">__(Wen pushes for bilateral, regional cooperation in South Korea tour, 30 May 2010, http://english.peopledaily.com.cn/90001/90776/90883/7004712.htm)__ </span></span>**

</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Visiting Chinese Premier…the document said. </span>__


</span>
</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Thomas, American Report of The Asia Foundation Emerging Leaders Conference, “Current Developments In Southeast Asia: Implications For U.S.-Southeast Asia Relations,” [[http://asiafoundation.org/resources/pdfs/SingaporeConferenceReportTLum.pdf]])
</span>
</span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">Southeast Asia has long…best reduced the likelihood of conflict. </span>
</span>
==Security K== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The concept of security is a social construct. Claims of war and conflict create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs affirmative advantage claims. </span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">David </span></span></span>**<span style="color: black;">Grondin,</span> <span style="color: black;">04 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200</span>**<span style="color: black;">4,</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)
</span>**</span></span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">__Approaches that deconstruct theoretical …__ </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 3pt;">conditions of existence are generated18.
</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">
</span></span><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">
</span></span></span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Claims of Korean “instability” are rooted in exclusionary racism </span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
Seng 02 <span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tan See Seng, Prof of Security Studies @ IDSS Singapore, ‘2 [July, “What Fear Hath Wrought: Missile Hysteria and The Writing of America, IDSS Commentary No. 28, [[http://www.sipri.org/contents/library/0210.pdf]]]
</span>**</span></span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">
</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__Otherness__</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, in Wolfowitz’s rendition, </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__is__</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__it is of the Other.__
</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">
</span></span></span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Realism secures its place as the hegemonic understanding of the world through violence- the claim to intellectual mastery is the root cause of conflict </span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jim</span></span></span>** George, 94 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">S</span><span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: #494949; font-size: 8pt;">enior lecturer in international relations in the Department of Political Science, Australian National University, 19</span></span>**94 <span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: #494949; font-size: 8pt;">(“</span></span><span style="color: #494949; font-size: 8pt;">Discourses of Global Politics: A Critical (Re)Introduction to International Relations,” p. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">140-141,)
</span>**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="letter-spacing: -0.2pt;">The critical social theory challenge … </span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.15pt;">the eradication of (anarchical) difference. </span></span>__
<span style="letter-spacing: -0.15pt;"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">
</span></span></span><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">
</span></span></span>Alt text: reject the <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">affirmative’s discourse to eschew the logic of security and their flawed methodology. </span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">
</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy </span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span></span></span>**Cheeseman,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**Bruce **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**, ‘96 <span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)
</span>**</span></span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">This goal is pursued in … to understand them, and why?
</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">
</span></span></span></span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Critical theory illuminates political theory: must come first </span>__<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>Brown, 05**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Professor of Political Science at Cal-Berkeley (Wendy, “Edgework”, pg. 80-81, JPW)
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 4pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Why can’t theory meet the … work of understanding a singular present. </span>__
</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.5in 0pt 0in;">
</span>

==Tax Cuts DA==
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">C</span>****<span style="font-family: Georgia;">ompromise on Tax Cuts in the Lame Duck </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Jeffry </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Bartash. 11/16**</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">/10. “Geithner Expects Tax Cut Extension Soon” Market Watch http://www.marketwatch.com/story/geithner-sees-deal-on-tax-cuts-soon-2010-11-16?reflink=MW_news_stmp </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) — </span><span class="underline0">**__U.S. Treasury Secretary__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Timothy </span><span class="underline0">**__… a more competitive America__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he added.</span>  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<<<<Insert Link—Plan Partisan>>>>** </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**BIPART KEY TO SHORT TERM EXTENSION – PARTISANSHIP RESULTS IN EXPIRATION OF CUTS.**  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**FINANCIAL TIMES 11-16**</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">. [“Advice for Capitol’s lame ducks” -- http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/f93f9dec-f1b9-11df-bb5a-00144feab49a.html#axzz15XLklTuv] </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="underline0">**__On taxes, the best compromise …__** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, if this were not Washington.  </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**These tax increases would cripple the US and global economies**  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Lambro, ’09**</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> – Chief political correspondent for The Washington Times (Donald, “Critical review missing”, 1/29, Lexis) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Garamond','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">If you've been watching how … Times, is a nationally syndicated columnist. </span><span class="underline0"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**That causes nuclear war** </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Mead, 09**</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> - senior fellow for </span>[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/U.S._foreign_policy|U.S. foreign policy ]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, 2/4/09, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” </span>[[@http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> AD 6/30/09)  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frequently, the crisis has weakened … </span>**__<span class="underline0">may still have to fight</span>__** </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> </span></span></span></span>


===31st da===

Marines from the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit have been linked to numerous cases of rape in Okinawa
Slavin, 05, Erik, writer for Stars and Stripes, 11/12/2005, “Okinawa troops react to Philippines rape case”, http://www.stripes.com/news/okinawa-troops-react-to-philippines-rape-case-1.40996
Reaction from Okinawa servicemembers…military ties between the two countries.
Gendered militarism and patriarchy in Okinawa makes warfare and rape inevitable
Farren et al, 91, Pat, head of the American Friends Service Committee, “Patriarchy: A State of War”, http://salsa.net/peace/conv/8weekconv5-5.html

Why weren't we prepared for this… the very base of patriarchal rule.

Patriarchy is the root of all impacts and causes extinction
Warren and Cady, 96 (Karen and Duane, Professors of Philosophy at Malacaster College and Hamline University, Hypatia, Spring)

Operationalized, the evidence of patriarchy …logical outgrowth of patriarchal thinking..

===UN Conditions 1NC=== 


Text: The United States federal government should condition the withdrawal of all its Marines from Japan upon Japan’s compliance with the United Nations' Trafficking in Persons Report of 2009. 

The United Nations' Trafficking in Persons Report of 2009 includes the following: 
UNHCR, 09. United Nations Refugee Agency, Trafficking in Persons Report 2009. http://www.unhcr.org/refworld/country,,,,JPN,4562d8cf2,4a4214b0c,0.html

Recommendations for Japan… options for immigration relief.
Japan would say yes- they want withdrawal of Marines especially because of rape 
AFP, 08, internationally renowned news source, 2/14/2008, “Japan's Okinawa demands US withdraw troops for rape of 14 yr girl. 14 rapes in total since 1995”, http://africaagainstafricom.org/article.php?story=ustrooprape
Japan's southern island of Okinawa on …by activists pushing for the air station to be removed completely from Okinawa.

===Parwan PIC===
Text: The United States federal government should close all of its military and/or police prisons in the topic countries except for the Detention Center in Parwan.

Parwan solves case and upholds Afghani alliance

Lubold 08 (Gordon, staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor, U.S. builds new detention center in Afghanistan, http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Foreign-Policy/2008/0826/p03s03-usfp.html, 8/26/08, MM)
In an effort to lay to rest… in the Afghan criminal court system.

Alliance is key to heg
Wisner ‘03
(Frank G. II, Co-Chair – Council on Foreign Relations Task Force, “Afghanistan: Are We Losing the Peace?”, June, http://www.asiasociety.org/policy_business/afghanistan061703.pdf)
The Task Force concludes… before it is too late. 

Global nuclear war
Khalilzad ‘95
(Zalmay, RAND Corporation, Losing The Moment? Washington Quarterly, Vol 18, No 2, p. 84)
Under the third option… balance of power system.






[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]