[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Nuclear warfare is distinctly immoral. The use of human beings as a means to such fickle ends as to satisfy a state's desires is unwarranted and unjust, as is the potential for this use, as no singular body should have that kind of power. Nukes are unnecessary. They cause untold harms that vastly outweigh any positive effects they may have, although no positive outcome is guaranteed, whereas it is certain that they will have such negative impacts as causing the death of hundreds of thousands, possibly millions of innocent victims, and turning entire cities and provinces into barren, lifeless wastelands. This injustice is obvious; however, it is even more apparent when evaluated under the guidelines of just war theory, a dictate observed by states all over the world.
Therefore, I affirm the resolution, "states ought not possess nuclear weapons."
The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy states, “The nebulous core shared by all cosmopolitan views is the idea that all human beings, regardless of their political affiliation, do (or at least can) belong to a single community, and that this community should be cultivated.” Cosmopolitanism is perpetually relevant to international politics, because it is vital to consider states’ positions in the context of the whole for debates about states’ policies and decision-making. 
My value for this round is justice, and my value criterion is adhering to the protocol of just war theory.
According to Aristotelian ethics, justice is defined as "to each his due." The resolution implies a moral obligation with the word ought, and one of the most important moral obligations, one which is especially relevant to state-related issues, is justice. The basic premise of just war theory is that it is intended to make necessary violence as proportional and morally legitimate as possible - in other words, to make it just, hence its name.
Just war theory, first of all, dictates the moral code for the international community in which each state exists. Second, even on their own states have a legal obligation to just war theory via the United Nations Charter. 
For clarification, I define states as "political units occupying definite territories; nations," ought as "a moral obligation," possess as "to have as belonging to one; to have as property; own," and nuclear weapons as "explosive devices whose destructive potential derives from the release of energy that accompanies the splitting or combining of atomic nuclei," via Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
In this round I make the observation that, when proven to be unjust as a rule, not only are nuclear weapons unjust in use, but in possession as well. This is because the only potential reason for their possession would be to threaten other states or organizations, and with that threat would come the potential for their use in the future.
C1: My first contention states that the possession and use of nuclear weapons violates the just war principle of proportionality.
This component of just war theory states that "an attack cannot be launched on a military objective in the knowledge that the incidental civilian injuries would be clearly excessive in relation to the anticipated military advantage."
Under this principle, the use of nuclear weapons could never be justified, as it is certain to cause vast numbers of civilian deaths and injuries, as well as colossal amounts of damage to the physical landscape of its target. Thus, the possession of nukes is unnecessary in all cases.
In the 1983 article "Nuclear Weapons and Medicine: Some Ethical Dilemmas," published in the Journal of Medical Ethics, it is stated that "it is the sheer destructive power of nuclear weapons and their potential for far-reaching effects on the global environment which transform them into instruments of genocide. The two major alliances, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the Warsaw Pact, are estimated to hold about 50,000 nuclear weapons ranging from battlefield weapons of about one kiloton explosive power (1,000 tons of TNT equivalent) to strategic weapons, i.e. those capable of reaching the opposing superpower's territory, of 10 megatons (10 million tons of TNT equivalent) or more. The total explosive force in world nuclear stockpiles is in excess of 12,000 megatons, representing at least 3 tons of TNT for each person in the world." 
So, any use of a nuclear weapon, especially if this use has the potential to spark a nuclear war, which, logically, it is probable that any use of a nuke would, violates just war theory, and thus is unjust.
C2: My second contention states that the use and possession of nuclear weapons violates the just war principle of probability of success.
To uphold probability of success and achieve jus ad bellum, an act of war must not be carried through "for a futile cause or in a case where disproportionate measures are required to achieve success."
The reality of the use of nuclear weapons is that if one state uses a nuke on another, and both countries have them, it is unlikely that either will truly "prevail," as the disasters resulting from nuclear warfare are likely to outweigh any benefits, therefore removing the possibility of success from both sides. This aligns with the principle of proportionality outlined above.
C3: My third contention states that the use and possession of nuclear weapons violates the just war principle of distinction.
Using people as a means to an end is never moral. Acts of war that fail to distinguish between enemy military combatants and innocent civilians, or in other words, cause harm to those civilians as if they were soldiers also, are unjust under just war theory primarily because the state is injuring and killing civilians with the sole purpose of achieving its desired end, which is most likely to decimate the surrounding area and, beyond that, win the war.
Robert P. Churchill of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, in his article "Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue," states, "Deterrence requires that millions be threatened as a means to influence the decisions of a few leaders. Thus deterrence requires that we treat human life as a mere object of a policy and a means rather than an end. The theologian Paul Ramsey draws the analogy of deterring reckless automobile drivers by tying babies to the front bumpers of their cars. He points out that this would be no way to regulate traffic even if it succeeds in regulating it perfectly, for “such a system makes innocent human lives the direct object of attack and uses them as a mere means for restraining the drivers of automobiles." 
Therefore, nuclear weapons used in any way, whether they are activated or not, are in violation of the principles of just war, and are not just.
It is proven that nuclear weapons can in no way uphold justice or any manifestation of morality; thus, I urge you to affirm.

==Negative== 
War is inevitable. History indicates that it is simply human nature, and thus common sense dictates that it is an unavoidable aspect of humanity. The obligation of a state, in general, is not to uphold abstract concepts of morality and justice in all that it does; its only obligation is to protect what stands within its borders. This is its sovereignty, and the only way it can survive. The only way a state can protect itself under the fluctuating conditions of warfare is to have the right weapons and the right protection available at the right times.
Therefore, my value in this round is national security, and my value criterion is preventing war.
The resolution specifies states' possession of nuclear weapons, and the primary reason for this possession is protection from attack, or national security - and the best way to uphold national security is to fend off that which may harm the state as much and for as long as possible.
In this round I observe the following:
First, that the negative burden is not to prove that states ought to have nuclear weapons - it is simply to prove that there is no obligation for them not to. In other words, I have the burden to prove that it isn't true that states shouldn't own nuclear weapons, not to prove that they should.
Second, that a resolution so fixed in terms of the real world must account for the current state of things in that world, i.e. the status quo. In order to address the issue of nuclear weapons possession, we must accept, along with the fact that nuclear weapons exist today, all the potential real-world repercussions of handling, using and destroying them.
For clarification, I define states as "political units occupying definite territories; nations," possess as "to have as belonging to one; to have as property; own," and nuclear weapons as "explosive devices whose destructive potential derives from the release of energy that accompanies the splitting or combining of atomic nuclei," via Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
C1: My first contention states that nuclear deterrence is effective at maintaining peace.
Nuclear deterrence refers to the phenomenon wherein states' possession of nuclear weapons halts warfare, as neither state is willing to enter into a full-scale nuclear war with the other.
Though nuclear weapons have existed for less than a century, there are multiple empirical examples of this phenomenon, most notably between the United States and the USSR during and after the Cold War (the period that saw the creation of the term "Mutually Assured Destruction.")
Jonathan Tepperman, formerly Deputy Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs at Newsweek and now its Assistant Managing Editor, writes, "[India and Pakistan] fought three bloody wars after independence before acquiring their own nukes in 1998. Getting their hands on weapons of mass destruction didn't do anything to lessen their animosity, but it did dramatically mellow their behavior. Since acquiring atomic weapons, the two sides have never fought another war, despite severe provocations (like Pakistani-based terrorist attacks on India in 2001 and 2008). They have skirmished once, but during that flare-up (in Kashmir in 1999) both countries were careful to keep the fighting limited and to avoid threatening the other's vital interests. Sumit Ganguly, an Indiana University professor and coauthor of the forthcoming India, Pakistan, and the Bomb, has found that on both sides, officials' thinking was strikingly similar to that of the Russians and Americans in 1962. The prospect of war brought Delhi and Islamabad face to face with a nuclear holocaust, and leaders in each country did what they had to do to avoid it." 
Because nuclear deterrence is effective, it is a tool that ensures the protection of the state by preventing war, thus increasing national security.
C2: My second contention states that deterrence serves as a preventative measure against conventional forms of warfare.
Victor Asal and Kyle Beardsley of the Departments of Political Science at SUNY and Emory, respectively, state in their study, Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior,  “The effect of a nuclear dyad is only approaching statistical significance, but does have a sign that indicates higher levels of violence are less likely in crises with opponents that have nuclear weapons than other crises. This lukewarm result suggests that it might not be necessary for nuclear actors to face each other in order to get the effect of decreased propensity for violence. All actors should tend to be more cautious in escalation when there is a nuclear opponent, regardless of their own capabilities. While this might weaken support for focusing on specifically a balance of terror as a source of stability (see Gaddis, 1986; Waltz, 1990; Sagan & Waltz, 2003; Mearsheimer, 1990), it [This] supports the logic in this article that nuclear weapons can serve as a deterrent of aggression from both nuclear and non-nuclear opponents. Model 3 transforms the violence variable to a binary indicator of war and demonstrates that The principal relationship between the number of nuclear actors and violence holds for the most crucial outcome of full-scale war. Model 4 demonstrates that Accounting for the presence of new nuclear actors does not greatly change the results. The coefficient on the new nuclear actor variable is statistically insignificant, which lends credence to the optimist’s view that new nuclear-weapon states should not be presupposed to behave less responsibly than the USA, USSR, UK, France, and China did during the Cold War. Finally, Model 5 similarly illustrates that Crises involving super- powers are not more or less prone to violence than others. Superpower activity appears to not be driving the observed relationships between the number of nuclear-crisis actors and restraint toward violence. It is important to establish more specifically what the change in the probability of full-scale war is when nuclear actors are involved. Table V presents the probability of different levels of violence as the number of nuclear actors increases in the Clarify simulations. The control variables are held at their modes or means, with the exception of the variable that counts the number of crisis actors. Because it would be impossible to have, say, five nuclear-crisis actors and only two crisis actors, the number of crisis actors is held constant at five. As we can see, The impact of an increase in the number of nuclear actors is substantial. Starting from a crisis situation without any nuclear actors, including one nuclear actor (out of five) reduces the likelihood of full-scale war by nine percentage points. As we continue to add nuclear actors, the likelihood of full-scale war declines sharply, so that the probability of a war with the maximum number of nuclear actors is about three times less than the probability with no nuclear actors. In addition, the probabilities of no violence and only minor clashes increase substantially as the number of nuclear actors increases. The probability of serious clashes is relatively constant. Overall, the analysis lends significant support to the more optimistic proliferation argument related to the expectation of violent conflict when nuclear actors are involved. While the presence of nuclear powers does not prevent war, it [The presence of nuclear powers] significantly reduces the probability of full-scale war, with more reduction as the number of nuclear powers involved in the conflict increases.”
So, the presence of nuclear actors in a conflict succeeds in preventing full-scale conventional war. Thomas Speckmann, Assistant Lecturer at the University of Bonn, in his article “A Nightmare: Obama Wants Nuclear Disarmament,” states, “Until now, The enormous costs of maintaining and updating its nuclear arsenal have stopped Russia from building more powerful conventional forces. The same is true for China. If America and Europe offer this opportunity for these rising countries to focus their resources on conventional armies, the number of bloody conflicts in the world could grow much larger. Even today, Russia and China are already putting pressure on the West through proxy wars in the Middle East and Africa. If mutual disarmament eases the perceived need felt by Moscow and Beijing to spend their money on nuclear weapons, it could seriously endanger the security of the West.”
All-in-all, nuclear weapons possession serves as an enormously powerful deterrent to all forms of warfare, thus upholding my value of national security; thus, I urge you to negate.

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]