==Affirmative== 

**Contention One is the Status Quo:**
**It’s 60 years since the Korean war started and the US is still trying to fight it. 28,000 troops are deployed along the DMZ, and they aren’t coming back anytime soon.**
Lasseter 10 (Tom, 6/21, Staffwriter, “Sixty years after war broke out, Korean peninsula still in limbo, accessed 6/21, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/06/21/96276/sixty-years-after-war-broke-out.html, JH) 
As the 60th anniversary …hordes of Northerners over its borders. 

**US Forces in Korea lock the US into a cycle of failure where the only response to every crisis is hardline policy which escalates each confrontation.**
Lai 9 David Lai, Prof of Asian Security Studies at the Strategic Studies Institute, Army War College, 2009, “Obama's Policy Option on North Korea,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=286 
We may never figure out what … not feel the need to develop nukes). 

**Crises escalate because we make them—military deployments in Korea are based on academic, media, and policymaker visions of North Korea as rogue, unpredictable, evil and fundamentally other—and Korea’s rational response to these images confirm our beliefs.**
Bleiker 5 Roland, Prof of IR at UQueensland, Divided Korea, pp. xxviii-xxxiv) 
RECURRING PATTERNS OF CONFLICT Diplomatic breakthroughs in Korea are usually … detect changes when they occur.15 

**Threat discourse about North Korea ignores the US’s role in creating the conflict--this makes future crises inevitable and makes US miscalculation likely. Must challenge construction of threats**
Bleiker 2005 (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. 103-4, TH) 
Security policy is about facing …task in the pages that follow. 

**Crisis escalation to a new Korean War is inevitable within the conventional security framework.**
Bleiker 5 Roland, Prof of IR at UQueensland, Divided Korea, pp. 1) 
In this first part, I rethink … for a more peaceful future. 

**Mindless escalating rhetoric surrounding North Korea will justify US interventionist war that will result in global conflict.**
Cumings 5 Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, Bruce 487-88) ncp) 
The point is not that North Korea … to a regional if not a global holocaust. 

**And, failure to resolve the confrontation between North and South will result in intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots**
Hayes & Hamel-Green 10 *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf) 
The international community is increasingly aware … consideration from the international community. 


**Even without war--succession politics could lead to a collapse of the North Korean regime in the short term. The result is a region-wide crisis that would derail Asian growth and cause nuclear confrontation.**
The Economist 9/23 http://www.economist.com/node/17093485?story_id=17093485&fsrc=rss 
NORTH KOREANS are by and … needs to rethink its approach. 


**Collapse is inevitable. Antagonistic rhetoric ensures that any collapse will be violent—we must create a non-hostile, ethical discourse for any shot at a soft landing.**
Bleiker 2005 (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. 103-4) 
The exact scenario of North Korea's … identity and difference. 


**Collapse of a hostile North Korean regime with American troops on the peninsula results in great power war between China and Russia and the U.S.**
Stares and Wit 9 (January, Senior fellow for Conflict Prevention and director of the Center for Preventive Action at the Council on Foreign Relations, Adjunct senior research fellow at the Weatherhead East Asia Institute, Columbia University, “Preparing for Sudden Change in North Korea”) 
Under these circumstances, the uncertainty … for misunderstanding and outright discord. 


**Korea is just one part in a security industry that manufactures low probability threats and worst case scenarios in order to build up the state’s defenses and defend its territory**
Lipschutz 98 [Ronnie, prof of politics at UC Santa Cruz, “Negotiating the Boundaries of Difference and Security at Millennium's End,” On Security, ed. Ronnie Lipschutz, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/index.html] 
What then, is the form and content … the notion of security, the speech act. 


**Securitization ensures total war and genocide - representations of extraordinary risks ensures astonishing violence**

Friis 2k, Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2] 
The problem with societal securitization … truth is never questioned. 


**Threats real is not responsive – psychological manipulation by politicans means acting on threat perceptions makes war inevitable. Deconstructing threats is try or die.**
Mack 91 (John E., MD in Psychiatry, Psychodynamics of International Relationships Vol 1 p. 58-59) 
The threat of nuclear annihilation … anything approaching objectivity.” 


**Independent of North Korea—American threat rhetoric locks in troop deployments in South Korea which result in brutal militarist structural violence.**
Imjin Scout no date given http://www.imjinscout.com/Korean_Prostitution/C6.html 
Consequently, despite the fact … social and political systems in South Korea.



**The structural violence of militarism kills more than any war- our impact outweighs**
Gilman 83 Dr. Robert C. Gilman, Ph.D. President of Context Institute Founding Editor of IN CONTEXT, A Quarterly of Humane Sustainable Culture One of the articles in The Foundations Of Peace (IC#4) Autumn 1983, Page 8 http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:p_T2jwNn8g4J:www.context.org/ICLIB/IC04/Gilman1.htm+nuclear+war+%22structural+violence%22&hl=en 
THE HUMAN TENDENCY toward, and … our most serious flaw. 


**Plan**
**The United States Federal government should remove all or nearly all of its military presence from South Korea.**



**Contention Two is Solvency**


**For once, take North Korea at their word: withdrawing American forces is critical to peace—it forces North Korea and South Korea into a new dialogue untainted by US cold-war pressures.**
Scofield 4 (David, Staffwriter for the Asia Times, Feb 28, “Korean Peace requires US compromise, troop exit”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/FB28Dg06.html, Date accessed: 6/28, JH) 
A new deal today would … extricating itself from what has become its Korean quagmire. 


**Combining that dialogue and a critical orientation towards the traditional security studies approach to the peninsula is crucial to create a lasting peace and avoid catastrophe.**
Bleiker 5 (Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,”) 
THE IMPORTANCE OF DIALOGUE Dialogue is undoubtedly one … alternatives, a situation requiring dialogue, a receptive reality.64 


**U.S. withdrawal is a game-changer – the non-aggression signal would deescalate current tensions and jumpstart denuclearization**
Lai 9 David Lai, Prof of Asian Security Studies at the Strategic Studies Institute, Army War College, 2009, “Obama's Policy Option on North Korea,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=286 
President Obama should see that … peaceful means, not through war. 


**Finally, the Aff’s speech act of deconstructing threats breaks can create solidarity in other countries to create international change—example is anti-apartheid campaign.**
Marsh 95 (Pearl-Alice, “Grassroots Statecraft and Citizens' Challenges to U.S. National Security Policy,” in On Security, R. Lipschutz, ed. http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz15.html 
One of the goals of this volume is … "reconstructed" images to influence national security policies. 10 


**Neg analyses are corrupt—military and political strategists view Korea through an orientalist lens**
Barkawi 8. Tarak (lecturer in international security at the Centre of International Studies, University of Cambridge, specializes in the study of war jh), “Orientalism at War in Korea,” http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p252622_index.html draft not for citation 
Military and political leadership, as well as … untoward course of events. 


**Orientalism corrupts rational decisionmaking–an examination of identity constructs is key**
Barkawi 8 Tarak (lecturer in international security at the Centre of International Studies, University of Cambridge, specializes in the study of war jh), “Orientalism at War in Korea,” http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p252622_index.html draft not for citation 
A large literature exists on misperception, … home, for elites and publics. 


**Orientalism allows war and genocide against the irrational Oriental other. Accepting this ideology sparks a new wave of Crusades. Once we have designated a group of people as inherently different – the road to their genocide is short.**** 
Batur ‘7 PINAR • Vassar College (Handbook of the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, “Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide”) 
Albert Memmi argued that “We have no idea … 21st century opened up with genocide, in Darfur 



==Negative==