[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
PARADIGM SHIFT 1AC

Observation 1: is the interpretation

aff burden: to defend public health methodology
neg burden: to defend criminal justice methodology

First, subject of resolution is illegal drug abuse- policy problem

Second, "to be treated as" means to adopt a new methodology

(New Oxford English Dictionary)

Third, "matter of" means reclassification

Fourth, "treated as a matter of" means to treat according to distinct methodology

v: morality

vc: minimizing illegal drug abuse

Mary Kate McNamara, Emily Schirack, Dana Sherry & Amy Vereecke "Inequality and Drug abuse" Neuroanthropology, hhtp://neuroanthropology.net/2008/05/06/inequality-and-drug-use//
//"By being poor....and much more."//

//Contention 1: treating drug abuse as a matter of criminal justice increases abuse.//

//Criminal justice methadologies focus on assigning moral blame.//
//James F. Mosher and Karen L. Yanagisako. "Public Health, Not Social Warfare: A Public Health Approach to Illegal Drug Policy." Journal of Public Health Policy, Vol. 12, No. 3 (Autumn,1991), pp. 279-280//
//"There are profound...the policy proponents (3,5).4"//

//Subpoint A: Criminal justice blocks effective treatment//

//Jennifer Ahern, Jennifer Stuber, and Sandro Galea. "Stigma, discrimination, and the health of illicit drug users."// Drug and Alcohol Dependence// 88 (2007) 188-196, 188-189. 
""Stigmatization may also....of care received."

National Association for Public Health Policy. "A Public Health Approach to Mitigating the Negative Consequences of Illicit Drug Abuse." 280 Journal of Public Health Policy. Vol, 20, NO. 3, p. 4-5. 
"4. Limited Drug-Abuse....aforementioned reatmenta pproaches." 

Subpoint B: Criminal justice methodologies mask the role of structural barriers

Jeffrey Reiman. "A Radical Perspective on Crime." __Deviance: A Symbolic Interactionist Approach,__ ed Nancy J. Herman. Lanham: rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc. (1995), p. 100-101.
"This is the powerful...criminality or injustice."

Contention 2: treating drug abuse as a matter of public health decreases abuse.

Christian Munthe - 2008. [Department of Philosophy, Go teborg University, Sweden]. The Goals of Public Health: An Integrated, Multidimensional Model. Public Health Ethics, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 39-52. JS.
"Several of these tensions....at a population level."

Eva Betram, Morris Blachman, Kenneth Sharpe, Peter Andreas. __Drug War Politics: The Price of Denial__. Los Angeles: University of California Press (1996), p. 198
"under a public-health paradigm...deserve closer attention."

Public health methodologies better solve for the structural determinants of drug abuse.
Mosher and Yanagisako. "Public Health, not Social Warfare: A Public Health Approach to Illegal Drug Policy." Journal of Public Health Policy, Vol. 12, No. 3 (Autumn, 1991). pp. 303-305
"The differing levels of drug environments....strong curriculum designs."

Eva Betram, Morris Blachman, Kenneth Sharpe, Peter Andreas. __Drug War Politics: The Price of Denial__. Los Angeles: University of California Press (1996), p. 199
"In a public-health paradigm....towards drug problems"


NEEDLES 1AC
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">V: Morality </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm. Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity. Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>. "We must not...to save many." </span></span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">S: Minimizing suffering </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS: In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C. David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1. "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention." The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase. Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20. Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country and legalize the possession of drug paraphernalia in and around exchange centers. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify. Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation. "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY: Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies. Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva. "The above findings...has been fulfilled." And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above]. "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled." Also, Syringe exchange programs link at-risk drug users with public health services, decrease drug use, and are cost effective. The research is rock solid on this question. Center For Disease Control—December 2005. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. Syringe Exchange Programs. "SEP's have been...infected with HIV." Moreover, Needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. Studies only examine the effect of needle exchanges on IDU’s but the decrease in dirty needles on the streets prevent HIV acquisition amongst those accidentally infected by needles. Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hcvadvocate.org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html|http://www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html]]</span>, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis. "Needle exchange programs...accidental needle sticks." Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem. Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12. "Reflecting on this...of our communities." And, once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed. Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23. "Lives are supported...qualifies for recognition."</span>== 
==Negative== 
Rule of Law NC


<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[1]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> Darryl Brown. 1997. [Professor, Washington & Lee University School of Law. “Jury Nullification Within the Rule of Law.” 81 Minn. L. Rev. 1149.]</span>
"The rule of law....prevail in political struggle."

Drug Courts NC

Drug courts use the criminal justice system.
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;"> Celinda Franco, Specialist in Crime Policy, Congressional Research Service, October 12th, 2010, Drug Courts: Background, Effectiveness, and Policy Issues for Congress, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41448.pdf]]</span>


"State drug courts...with roots in the community."

Drug courts decrease drug use amongst the arrested, reduce crime rates as a result of rehabilitation.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. West Huddleston, III Douglas B. Marlowe, J.D., Ph.D. Rachel Casebolt</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Painting the Current Picture: A National Report Card on Drug Courts and Other Problem-Solving Court Programs in the United States,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> May 2008, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/pdf/12902_PCP_fnl.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In February of...time of arrest."</span>

Drug courts decrease use, cost effective.

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">“Looking at a Decade of Drug Courts” 1999 The Office of Justice Programs Drug Court Clearinghouse and Technical Assistance Project (DCCTAP) at American University, sponsored by the Drug Courts Program Office of the Office of Justice Programs, U.S. Department of Justice, http://www1.spa.american.edu/justice/documents/2049.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">"Most criminal justice professionals...well over 90 percent negative."</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">"The average cost for...because of their program participation."</span>

Cartel DA-

Mexican Cartels dominate US drug market. 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colleen W. Cook (Analyst in Latin American Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division) Congressional Research Service Report for Congress. Mexico’s Drug Cartels. October 16, 2007. [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34215.pdf]]</span>
"Mexico, a major drug producing....Mexican groups has expanded."

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Going soft on drugs increases demand.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Action News, published by Act Missouri. Volume 3, Number 1. President: Linda Tooley. http://www.actmissouri.org/PDF%20Files/potissue.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Long term protection advocate...National Household Survey on Drug Abuse."</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Increase in drug use increases cartel income.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 6pt;">4</span> <span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Reches. “Decriminalization is not the answer.” The Oklahoma Daily. April 08, 2010. http://oudaily.com/news/2010/apr/08/column-decriminalization-not-solution/</span>
"The worst part of decriminalization..higher revenues for gangs and drug cartels."

Cutting cartel income is key to defeating them. 
Elyse Foley. "Drug Cartels Carry Millions Over Border, Despite Increased Enforcement" The Washington Independent, 8/26/10. 
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">http://washingtonindependent.com/95821/drug-cartels-carry-millions-over-border-despite-increased-enforcement </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">"Stemming the flow of cash...can be knocked off."</span>

Cartels are involved in a deadly drug war that has killed thousands. 
The Associated Press. "Drug war's death toll in Mexico: 28,000 killed since 2006" August 3, 2010. http://www.cleveland.com/world/index.ssf/2010/08/drug_wars_death_toll_in_mexico.html
"More than 28,000 people....were involved in the drug trade."

<span style="font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">The violence is so bad that Mexico is on the brink of collapse. </span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Robert C. Bonner “The New Cocaine Cowboys.” Foreign Affairs, August 2010</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66472/robert-c-bonner/the-new-cocaine-cowboys]]</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;">"The stakes in Mexico are high....Central and South America."</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;">Punishment NC-</span>

Drug users victimize the community. 
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;">Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], "Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement." Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307.</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;">"We tend by default....free to do as he wishes."</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Ought to be held accountable.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], "Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement." Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307.</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"We tend by default....free to do as he wishes."</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;">"So how can that wrong...actually ends up requiring it."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Focus on public health shifts us away from punishment. </span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span>**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">"The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>**</span>== 


START DA


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">A) UNIQUENESS: The NEW Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty between the U.S. and Russia is on track to pass by the end of the year.</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> [[#_Toc141194457]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> As President …over national security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> B) LINK: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill political capital.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> "In a column… tone of the debate."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> C) INTERNAL LINK: Without political capital, the treaty will collapse. Obama’s capital is key.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> Jonathon McLaughlin, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> Unfortunately, the polarizing …votes is not a given.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> Without political capital, opposition can’t be solved and START will never pass.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> Hurlburt 10 (Heather, executive director of the National Security Network, Liberal Apathy, the National Security Story,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tnr.com/blog/jonathan-cohn/76729/liberal-apathy-national-security-story]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> "Jonathan Cohn falls …they are not."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> And, START is necessary to maintaining and monitoring nuclear stockpiles.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> A Strong Case For New Start. Center For American Progress. April 6, 2010. Max Bergmann [Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Analyst for American Progress. Formerly the deputy policy director at the National Security Network. has been published by the Los Angeles Times, The Boston Globe, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The New York Times, The New Republic, The American Prospect, The Washington Times, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, World Politics Review Journal, and Issues in Science and Technology. MA from London School of Economics].<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/04/new_start.html]]</span>.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> "Blocking New START … for U.S. security."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> D) THE IMPACT: Accidental Launch. Improving U.S.-Russian nuclear relations is the only way to reduce the risk of accidental launch and other disasters.Podvig[[#_ftn5|[5]]] ’06 writes:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> Reducing the Risk of an Accidental Launch,” Science and Global Security, 2006 Pavel Podvig [Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. “(<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws-roxen.princeton.edu/sgspapers/papers/14_2-3_%20Podvig.pdf]]</span>).</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> "Part of the problem …with nuclear weapons."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> An accidental launch would lead to retaliatory strikes and extinction within half an hour.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> Two Minutes to Launch . The American Prospect. Morton Mintz [Former chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former Washington Post reporter]. February 26, 2001. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> The bitter disputes … "It would be, basically, a nuclear war by checklist, by rote." </span>




=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Value: Justice</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> VC: maintaining consistency with the constitution </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">1. Legitimacy of legal system must come from political discourse, not moral philosophy JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 256-257. "The same reason...on moral discourse" Must recognize procedural obligations of various actors. It is the supreme court's duty to strike down laws inconsistent with the constitution Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. 137 (), 1 Cranch 137, p. 175-177. 2. </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">The rule of constitutional law is necessary for democratic legitimacy because protection of autonomy empowers legal subjects to use public autonomy in democratic process, which legitimizes the law JurgenHabermas [Former Chair of Philosophy and Sociology, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt am Main Institute for Social Research, Permanent Visiting Professor at Northwestern University, "Theodor Heuss Professor" at The New School, New York.], The Inclusion of the Other: Studies in Political Theory. Cambridge: MIT Press (1998), p. 260-261. "However well grounded...over its counterpart" The constitution thus constructs the medium of law itself. And, the supreme court is structurally responsible for upholding the obligation. 3. Using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends. Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational? "it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing." </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">THUS, THE PLAN: The U.S. Supreme Court will overturn its decision in McKeiver v. Pennsylvaniaas as it applies to those tried with violent felonies on the grounds that the 6th and 14th amendments to the U.S. Constitution guarantee the right to trial by jury for those juveniles. </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">CONTENTION ONE: The 6th amendment requires that people charged with violent crimes be given the right to a jury trial. The McKeiver decision assigned constitutional rights based on arbitrary classifications of age, and the distinctino of juvenile trials as civil while adult trials as criminal is misguided because: a. supreme court precedent indicates there is no legitimate distinction between juvenile courts and adult criminal courts. </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com. "supreme court precedent...state juvenile proceedings" b. Juvenile courts have become incredibly punitive. </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com. "state juvenile courts... and adversarial proceeding" c. Because juvenile delinquency convictions can be used to enhance criminal penalties later in life, they are punitive proceedings. </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 511-512 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>>. "since the 1980's...criminal history score" </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Absent the civil-criminal distinction, the earlier Supreme Court decision in Duncan vs. Louisiana are applicable to juvenile courts. Trial by jury is a constitutional requirement for all defendants, not just those in adult courts. Sara E. Kropf—June 1999. [J.D., Georgetown University, 1999; B.A., Georgetown University, 1995. Trial Lawyer].Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines. Georgetown Law Journal. FindArticles.com. "The reasoning in...granted to juveniles" </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">CONTENTION TWO: Trial by jury is required by the ‘fundamental fairness’ test for the 14th amendment. </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Even the majority opinion in McKeiver concedes that the appropriate standard for determining what procedures are required for juveniles by the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment is “fundamental fairness.” McKeiver v. Pennsylvania, 403 U.S. 528 (1971), p. 543. "All the litigants..are not inflexible" </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Trial by jury is the only way to protect the fundamental fairness of criminal proceedings.</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> 1. the ability to choose a jury checks back for bias in a way that doesn’t exist with judges. The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996 Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA. (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090]]</span>) [Article is from “The Future of Children” A Collaboration of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]]</span> at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]]</span> and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]]</span>.] "in addition the...a bench trial"</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"> 2. judge trials hurt defendants chances to appeal. The Court’s Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases, 1996 Janet E. Ainsworth Janet E. Ainsworth, J.D., is associate profes- sor of law at Seattle University School of Law, Tacoma, WA. (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/futureofchildren/publications/journals/article/index.xml?journalid=55&articleid=314&sectionid=2090]]</span>) [Article is from “The Future of Children” A Collaboration of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wws.princeton.edu/|The Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs]]</span> at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.princeton.edu/|Princeton University]]</span> and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/|The Brookings Institution]]</span>.] "Denial of the...law on appeal" </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">3. The possibility of a jury trial improves the fairness of the charging decision and checks the power imbalance in plea negotiations. Janet E. Ainsworth [Professor, Seattle University School of Law]. “Youth Justice in a Unified Court: Response to Critics of Juvenile Court Abolition.” 1995. Boston College Law Review. Associate Professor, Seattle University School of Law. P. 943 "Nor can the...possesses as leverage."</span>== 
== == 
== == 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]