=<span style="font-size: 33px; line-height: 49px;">Affirmative</span>= 


**Contention One is Significance:**
**Military is an inherently violent**
**__Fetherston,__**

**Thus, we demand the United States federal government remove all of its military presence from the following countries; Iraq, Afghanistan, South Korea, Kuwait, Japan, and Turkey.**
**We reserve the right to clarify.**

**Contention Two is the Give me Liberty or Give me Death:**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**Advantage 1 is Society**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**A. The military is our society. It dominates our economy, our entertainment, even our very logic and thinking**</span>

__**Fogarty**__, Brian E., chair and professor of Sociology at College of Saint Catherine, 20**__00__**, (//War, Peace, and the Social Order//, Page 102-103)

<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**B. Local actions like the plan are key to stopping militarism in our society**</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">__**Fogarty**__, Brian E., chair and professor of Sociology at College of Saint Catherine, 20**__00__**, (//War, Peace, and the Social Order//, Page 213)</span>


<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**C. And, small changes solve**</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">__**Fogarty**__, Brian E., chair and professor of Sociology at College of Saint Catherine, 20**__00__**, (//War, Peace, and the Social Order//, Page 198-199)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**D. Faith in violence only recreates violence. Stopping violence is a D rule, because it is the root cause of all harms**</span>
__**<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">MLK</span></span>**__**,** Dr Martin Luther King, Jr., The Trumpet Of Conscience, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">19</span></span>**__<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">67</span></span>__**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">,</span></span> p. 70-71

**Advantage 2 is Kill to Save**
<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**A. We must reject the Western illusion that we can save humanity by destroying part of it. This mindset justifies the most violent atrocities in history**</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Boaventura de </span></span>__**<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Santos</span></span>**__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, Prof at Univ of Coimbra, April 20</span></span>**__<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">03</span></span>__**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">, “Collective Suicide?”, Bad Subjects, Issue # 63</span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**B. Faith in the idea that we can kill to save only worsens the cycle of violence. Rejecting this idea is an act of nonviolence and recognition of our role as individuals able to make judgment.**</span>
Stephen __**<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Wink</span></span>**__**,** Associate at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, __**<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">and</span></span>**__ Walter __**<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Wink</span></span>**__, Prof of Biblical Interpretation, Auburn Theological Seminary; Saint Louis University Law Journal, Winter, 1993-<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">19</span></span>**__<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">94</span></span>__**

**Advantage 3 is Militarism**
**A. Militarism creates a world in which violence is celebrated; makes war inevitable.**
**__<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">Bachevich, </span></span>__**<span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">professor of International Relations at Boston University, 20**__05__** (Andrew, The new American Militarism, page 22-23)</span></span>


**The time to act is now. Reducing troops can be the catalyst for a revived peace movement that challenges militarism**
**<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">Peace and Solidarity Commission, 10 </span></span><span style="font-size: 11px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 16px;">– (6/4/10, Communist Party of the USA, “We Need a New Kind of Peace Movement,”)</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.cpusa.org/we-need-a-new-kind-of-peace-movement/]])</span>



<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Advantage Four is Security:</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">A. </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Language constitutes reality: cold-war rhetoric spurred the violently exclusionary identity of a national security state hell bent on constructing threats to serve political purposes of maintaining power. Our critical self examination of identity creations is crucial to breaking the self fulfilling cycle of national security.</span>**</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Grondin</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> 20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">04</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17, MT)</span>

**B. The reality created by security imposes deeply embedded hatred for the enemy in all of us which enables violent acts to occur under the guise of less than human enemies. Our enemies are not real, rather creations of our own mind that are sustained by group mentalities that political leaders prey on. This orientation to the world ensures a globe of violence that will inevitably kill us all. We are not innately violent, we can overcome violence.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Mack</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;"> 19</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">88</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988.<span class="s2">[[http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html]]</span>, MT)</span>

**<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">C. Security is an illusion that has forgotten it is an illusion. Recognizing this and abandoning its logic emancipates us and opens up alternative spaces in the future that can social domination.</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> 20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">08</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 185-186, MT)</span>

**D. Representations form the basis of what is and what is not thinkable in policy making. Neg arguments should be evaluated on the basis of how it represents foreign policy. Our representation of the world will always create a better outcome than the neg.**

**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">Jourde</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> 20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">06</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Cedric, Ph.D., Political Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 2002 * M.A., Political Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 1996 * B.Sc., Political Science, Université de Montréal, Montréal, 1995 Hegemony or Empire?: The redefinition of US Power under George W Bush Ed. David and Grondin p. 182-183 2006, MT)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.45in; text-indent: -0.25in;">(We usually read some kind of preempt at the bottom depending on what the other team tends to run)</span>


=<span style="font-size: 33px; line-height: 49px;">Negative</span>= 

Dada
Schopenheur
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">A lot of case</span>

Troop Shift- 1NC

Troops are being withdrawn from Europe now – budget cuts. 
William D. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hartung</span>__**. “The Nation: The Price Of National Security.” NPR. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">June 29,</span>__** 2010. Accessed June 29, 2010. http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=128185955

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">The task force has developed</span>...sensible defense policies.</span>


When troops become available we will redeploy to Eastern Europe. 
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Rick </span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Rozoff.</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> “Encircling Russia: US NATO Military Bases in Eastern Europe.” Global Research. October 25, 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. Accessed June 30, 2010. http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=15824</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Regarding the recent disclosure...</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 9.5pt;"> international security Ellen Tauscher.</span></span><span style="color: windowtext;"> [14]</span>

This heightens regional fears to the point of nuclear war. The probability and magnitude of our impact outweigh that of all other hotspots. 
Rick **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rozoff</span>__**, frequent contributor to Global Research, Baltic Sea: Flash Point For NATO-Russia Conflict, Feb 27, 20**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__**, http://groups.yahoo.com/group/stopnato/message/37592.

<span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">In such an environment of...</span></span> is the <span style="border: initial none initial;">Baltic Sea</span><span style="border: none;"> region.</span>

ASPEC- 1NC Shell

A. Interpretation: The affirmative should specify the branch of government that implements their plan 

B. Violation: They don’t 

C. Vote Negative—
1. Fairness- Lack of specification destroys agent CP ground which is core negative ground
2. Ground- Can’t get links to the actor
3. Education- We do not learn about the different branches of government that could implement the plan.

<span style="line-height: 150%; margin-left: 0in;">4. Vote Neg on presumption—90% of solvency in specification of the plan </span>
Elmore 80__<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> , Richard Elmore, Political Science Quarterly, Vol. 94, No. 4 (Winter, 1979-1980), pp. 601-616</span>__

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">The emergence of...several alternative models of organization.7</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">
</span>