[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

**Value is morality.**

**Standard is minimizing human suffering.**

**A. Morality commends certain actions because they have properties that humans naturally value**

David Carr [Charles Howard Candler Professor of Philosophy at Emory]. //Educating the virtues: an essay on the philosophical psychology of moral development and education//. Routledge, 1991. Google Books. “Apart from the idea…the opposite effect.”

We must value life to achieve any other goal.

**B. Minimization standards don’t turn humans into market goods**

David Cummiskey [Associate Professor of Philosophy at Bates University]. //Kantian Consequentialism//. OUP, 1996. Google Books. “If the moral…to save many.”

**I advocate that states in danger of failing ought to disarm or refrain from building nuclear weapons.**

The fissile material would be turned into fuel. World Nuclear Association. “Nuclear Warheads as a Source of Nuclear Fuel.” October 2009. Google. The report is based on three independent scientific papers and a NATO publication. “Nuclear materials declared…for weapons manufacture.”

**Inherency**

**A. Pakistani flood damage has been blamed on the government**

Sebastian Abbot and Ashraf Khan. “Pakistanis Suspect Landowners of Diverting Floods.” September 6, 2010. Associated Press hosted by Google. “Islamist militants could…of the poor.”

**B. Before the floods, the military could barely control the insurgency**

“Pakistan: Fighting Domestic Insurgency.” //New York Times//, August 27, 2010. “By 2009, the…to chase them.”

**Net Benefits**

**A. Pakistani facilities aren’t safe from terrorists**

Shaun Gregory [Director of the Pakistan Security Research Unit at the University of Bradford; former visiting fellow at the Institute for Strategic Studies in Islamabad and at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analysis in New Delhi]. //CTC Sentinel// 2 no. 7 (July, 2009). Combating Terrorism Center at West Point. Google. “When Pakistan was…weapons assembly sites.”

Terrorists could acquire nuclear weapons through insiders or direct robberies. Vipin Narang [Assistant Professor of Political Science at MIT; former fellow at the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard]. “Posturing for Peace? Pakistan’s Nuclear Postures and South Asian Stability.” //International Security// 34 no. 3 (Winter 2009), pp. 38-78. Project Muse. “There are two…will necessarily increase.”

**B.** **Terrorists will use nuclear weapons against India, causing a war**

Akmal Hussain [Distinguished Professor at Beaconhouse National University]. “A Perspective on Peace and Economic Cooperation in South Asia.” Paper Presented at the APARC-ORF Conference Panel on South Asian Visions of Regionalism, Stanford University, on June 9, 2008. “The current structure…attack on Pakistan.”

The war would harm nations outside the region. Catherine Brahic. “Limited Nuclear War Would Damage Ozone Layer.” //The New Scientist//, April 2008. Based on a paper in //Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences//. “A small-scale nuclear…ozone remained depleted.” 

**C. Nuclear weapons haven’t mitigated and won’t mitigate the current conflict**

Conventional conflict between India and Pakistan happened as often with nuclear weapons as without them. Achin Vanaik [Professor of International Relations and Global Politics at Delhi University]. “Nuclear Risk Reduction Measures between India and Pakistan.” //Economic and Political Weekly// 37 no. 28 (2002), 2845-2848. “The last one...signs of diminishing.” 

India’s nuclear policies prevent it from striking an unarmed neighbor. Vipin Narang [Assistant Professor of Political Science at MIT; former fellow at the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard]. “Posturing for Peace? Pakistan’s Nuclear Postures and South Asian Stability.” //International Security// 34 no. 3 (Winter 2009), pp. 38-78. Project Muse. “India has adopted…a no-first-use policy.”
==Negative== 
**Value is morality.**

Moral obligations have to consider the real world, not an ideal one. John Dewey [past President of the American Psychological Association, the American Philosophical Association, and Professor of Philosophy at Columbia University]. Eds. Larry Hickman and Thomas Alexander. //The Essential Dewey: Ethics, Logic, Psychology.// Vol. 2. Indiana UP, 1998. Google Books. “All action is…to their solution.”

Common usage doesn’t assign people obligations they can’t fulfill.

**Aff burden: explain why disarmament is possible** (for one actor or interest group in the current political arena) **and how it would be implemented**
**Neg burden: prove the AC couldn’t be implemented**

**1. Nuclear weapons are vital sources of pride and sovereignty because they’re so tightly controlled**

Itty Abraham [Director of the South Asia Institute at UT-Austin]. “Notes toward a Global Nuclear History.” //Economic and Political Weekly// 39 no. 46/47 (Nov. 20-26, 2004), 4997-5005. jStor. “In the 1950s…and for granted.”

Sovereignty and pride are necessary components of any state because they precede the fulfillment of domestic and international goals.

**2. Nuclear weapons are important bargaining chips in international conflicts**. They’re also believed to ensure security, which is a fundamental goal of any state.

Almost every nuclear country is involved in some territorial conflict. Tertrais, Bruno [senior research fellow at the Fondation pour la Recherche Stratégique in Paris]. “The Illogic of Zero.” //The Washington Quarterly// 33 no. 2 (April 2010), 125-138. http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_Tertrais.pdf. “The conditions that...suspension of disbelief.”

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Definitions:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drug abuse – Andrew Cherry [Oklahoma Endowed Professor of Mental Health at the University of Oklahoma]. Substance Abuse: A Global View. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 2002. “Drug addiction, or…and illicit drugs.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A matter of – Oxford English Dictionary. Dictionary.oed.com. “A circumstance which involves or entails a specified action, choice, etc.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ought – Oxford English Dictionary. Dictionary.oed.com. “Expressing duty or obligation of any kind.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Public health – Richard Epstein. “Let the Shoemaker Stick to His Last: A Defense of the ‘Old’ Public Health.” Perspectives in Biology and Medicine 46 no. 3 (2003). Project Muse. Epstein is summarizing the ideas of Lawrence Gostin [Faculty Director at the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law at Georgetown]. “The mission of…health care services.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Criminal justice – Legal Dictionary. [[http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/]]. Legal Dictionary draws on two published sources: West’s Encyclopedia of American Law and The People’s Law Dictionary. “A term used…carrying out punishment.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Standard: minimizing the use of illegal drugs and related suffering</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1) The state is not an autonomous actor, so its only obligation is to carry out the function assigned to it</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2) Criminal punishment is not justified unless it rehabilitates the criminal to live in a community</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jean-Christophe Merle [Senior Researcher in philosophy at the Universität des Saarlandes]. “A Kantian Critique of Kant’s Theory of Punishment.” Law and Philosophy 19 no. 3 (May, 2000). 311-338. jStor. “On the contrary…of the criminal.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">3) Under deontology, pure retribution universalizes the criminal’s immoral maxim; only rehabilitation is consistent with the moral law</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jean-Christophe Merle [Senior Researcher in philosophy at the Universität des Saarlandes]. “A Kantian Critique of Kant’s Theory of Punishment.” Law and Philosophy 19 no. 3 (May, 2000). 311-338. jStor. “The first and…of an action.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Advocacy: drug courts to treat addiction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Public health approaches can and do include mandatory treatment. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Jennifer Hodulik [JD Candidate at Northwestern University School of Law]. “The Drug Court Model as a Response to ‘Broken Windows’ Criminal Justice for the Homeless Mentally Ill.” The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 91 no. 4 (Summer, 2001). 1073-1100. jStor. “A system that…in some instances.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drug courts don’t prevent the criminal justice system from addressing violence </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Andrew Armstrong [JD Candidate, Northwestern University School of Law]. “Drug Courts and the de Facto Legalization of Drug Use for Participants in Residential Treatment Facilities.” The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 94 no. 1 (Autumn, 2003). 133-168. jStor. “Admission criteria also…and out-of-county residence.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1: Drug courts use a therapeutic, not punitive, approach</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drug courts don’t require addicts to undergo punishment for the specific drug abuse that led up to their arrest </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stacy Lee Burns [Associate Professor of Sociology at LMU] and Mark Peyrot [Professor of Sociology at Loyola College]. “Tough Love: Nurturing and Coercing Responsibility and Recovery in California Drug Courts.” Social Problems 50 no. 3 (August, 2003). 416-438. jStor. “Even after offenders…to complete treatment.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drug courts treat addiction as a medical condition, not a crime </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Peggy Hora [Senior Judicial Fellow for the National Drug Court Institute], William Schma [past president of the Michigan Association of Drug Court Professionals], and John Rosenthal. “Therapeutic Jurisprudence and the Drug Treatment Court Movement: Revolutionizing the Criminal Justice System’s Response to Drug Abuse and Crime in America.” Notre Dame Law Review (January, 1999). [[http://www1.spa.american.edu/justice/documents/741.pdf]]. “First, DTCs recognize…of the problem.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This approach has been proven effective </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mitchell Mackinem [former South Carolina Drug Court Coordinator] and Paul Higgins [Professor of Sociology at the University of South Carolina]. Drug Court: Constructing the Moral Identity of Drug Offenders. Charles C. Thomas, 2008. Google Books. “The body of…for drug-using offenders.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 2: Drug courts tailor sanctions to the client’s current behavior, not past addiction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">David Wilson [Administration of Justice, George Mason University], Ojmarrh Mitchell [Criminal Justice Department, University of Nevada] and Doris MacKenzie [Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice, University of Maryland]. “A Systematic Review of Drug Court Effects on Recidivism.” Journal of Experimental Criminology 2 no. 4 (2006). 459-487. “In most drug…appropriate treatment programs.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative reinforcements only work if they respond to the client’s current behavior </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Douglas Marlowe [Senior Scientist at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania] and Kimberly Kirby [Director of the Institute on Behavioral Research in Addictions at Temple University in Philadelphia]. “Effective Use of Sanctions in Drug Courts: Lessons from Behavioral Research.” National Drug Court Institute Review 2 no. 1 (Summer, 1999). [[http://www.ndci.org/sites/default/files/ndci/NDCIR.II1__0.pdf]]. “Clients who do…number of treatments).”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Positive reinforcements are necessary too </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Douglas Marlowe [Senior Scientist at the Treatment Research Institute at the University of Pennsylvania] and Kimberly Kirby [Director of the Institute on Behavioral Research in Addictions at Temple University in Philadelphia]. “Effective Use of Sanctions in Drug Courts: Lessons from Behavioral Research.” National Drug Court Institute Review 2 no. 1 (Summer, 1999). [[http://www.ndci.org/sites/default/files/ndci/NDCIR.II1__0.pdf]]. “Payment vouchers are…and gaining employment.”</span>

==Negative== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The resolution asks whether A) a criminal justice approach is appropriate for any group of actions and B) whether drug abuse is a member of that group</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ought – Random House Dictionary. [[http://www.dictionary.com/|www.dictionary.com]]. “Used to express propriety, appropriateness, etc.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Observation 1: Actions that enhance the actor’s freedom while restricting the freedom of others require criminal punishment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Crimes create moral sovereigns and punishment restores the balance</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Wesley Cragg. The Practice of Punishment: Towards a Theory of Restorative Justice. Routledge, 1992. Page 11. Google Books. “The offense creates…to each other.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Punishment respects the criminal’s self-determination because it applies his or her own maxim</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kathleen Dean Moore. Pardons: Justice, Mercy, and the Public Interest. Oxford UP, 1989. Page 49. Google Books. “By a criminal…to commit crimes.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Calling the crime bad or addressing its harms doesn’t have the appropriate effect</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alan Brudner. “In Defense of Retributivism.” Retributivism and its Critics: Papers of the Special Nordic Conference. Wesley Cragg, ed. Franz Steiner Verlag Stuttgart, 1990. Page 96. Google Books. “Just as the…therefore would rights.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Observation 2: Drug abuse merits punishment</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Continued drug abuse overcomes addicts’ rational capacity</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gary Watson. “Excusing Addiction.” Law and Philosophy 18 no. 6 (1999). Page 592. jStor. “This way of…fully morally responsible.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Addicts are responsible for their drug abuse because they chose drugs in the beginning</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Steven Morse [Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at U Penn]. “Addiction, Genetics, and Criminal Responsibility.” Law and Contemporary Problems 69 no. 165 (2006). Page 167. “As everyone concedes…important and interesting.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Addicts have lucid periods in which they can decide to pursue treatment</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Steven Morse [Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at U Penn]. “Addiction, Genetics, and Criminal Responsibility.” Law and Contemporary Problems 69 no. 165 (2006). Page 193. “The second and…avoid future offending.”</span>


**Theory**
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Interpretation: The aff must defend a system of public health measures that has provisions for most drugs and most effects of drug abuse. The aff does not have to win that each provision is good, but that the overall system is better than the neg approach.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Standards:</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">1) In-round breadth</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">2) Depth</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">3) Ground</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Voters:</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">1) Education</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">2) Fairness</span>


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Merriam Webster’s Dictionary of Law. 1996. [[http://dictionary.findlaw.com/definition/charge.html]]. “To make an…bring to trial.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://definitions.uslegal.com/v/violent-felony/]]. From US v. Thrower, 2009 U.S. App. LEXIS 22484, 4-5 (2d Cir. N.Y. Oct. 14, 2009). Ellipsis added by the source. “Any crime punishable…injury to another.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US Courts, District of Idaho. [[http://www.id.uscourts.gov/terms-cd.htm]]. “The network of…and its enforcement.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Richard Bonnie [Director of the Institute of Law, Psychiatry, and Public Policy at the University of Virginia School of Law]. “The Competence of Criminal Defendants with Mental Retardation to Participate in Their Own Defense.” Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology 81 no. 3 (1990). [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1143845]]. “As the Supreme…has requested one.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Random House Dictionary. 2010. [[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/ought]]+. “Used to express…or the like.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Philip Pettit [Laurance S. Rockefeller University Professor of Politics and Human Values at Princeton University]. Republicanism: A Theory of Freedom and Government. Oxford UP, 1997. Google Books. “To be a person…be generally ignored.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Judith Butler [Co-Director of the Program of Critical Theory at UC Berkeley]. Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence. Verso, 2004. Google Books. “The media representations…to oppose violence.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Stephen Morse [Professor of Law and Psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania Law School; specializes in individual responsibility]. “Delinquency and Desert.” Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 564 (Jul., 1999): 56-80. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1048778]]. “Assuming, then, that insufficient…be treated equally.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Anna Louise Simpson. “Rehabilitation as the Justification of a Separate Juvenile Justice System,” California Law Review, Vol. 64, No. 4 (Jul., 1976), pp. 984-1017 [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3479922]]. “Developmental specialists stress…the same level.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Leslie Zebrowitz [Manuel Yellen Professor of Social Relations in the Department of Psychology at Brandeis] and Joann Montepare [Professor of Psychology at Lasell]. “Too Young, Too Old: Stigmatizing Adolescents and Elders.” The Social Psychology of Stigma. Ed. Todd Heatherton. Guilford Press, 2000. Google Books. “As noted earlier…babyfaced adolescents experience.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Leslie Zebrowitz [Manuel Yellen Professor of Social Relations in the Department of Psychology at Brandeis] and Joann Montepare [Professor of Psychology at Lasell]. “Too Young, Too Old: Stigmatizing Adolescents and Elders.” The Social Psychology of Stigma. Ed. Todd Heatherton. Guilford Press, 2000. Google Books. “Indeed it has been…just a phase.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barry Feld [Centennial Professor of Law at the University of Minnesota Law School]. “Juvenile and Criminal Justice Systems’ Responses to Youth Violence.” Crime and Justice 24 (1998): 189-261. jStor. “From the juvenile…of the charge.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barry Feld [Centennial Professor of Law at the University of Minnesota Law School]. “Juvenile and Criminal Justice Systems’ Responses to Youth Violence.” Crime and Justice 24 (1998): 189-261. jStor. “The subjective nature…comparable white offenders.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barry Feld [Centennial Professor of Law at the University of Minnesota Law School]. “Juvenile and Criminal Justice Systems’ Responses to Youth Violence.” Crime and Justice 24 (1998): 189-261. jStor. “The transfer decision…of violent youths.”</span>

==Negative== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barry Feld [Centennial Professor of Law at University of Minnesota Law School]. “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy.” Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 88 no. 1 (1998). “Because ‘youthfulness’ constitutes…of diminished responsibility.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New Oxford American Dictionary. Available on any Apple computer. Treat: “Regard something as…actions concerning it.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Laurence Steinberg [Temple University] and Elizabeth Scott [University of Virginia School of Law]. “Less Guilty by Reason of Adolescence: Developmental Immaturity, Diminished Responsibility, and the Juvenile Death Penalty.” American Psychologist 58 no. 12 (December 2003): 1009-1018. “Most of the developmental…into late adolescence.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barry Feld [Centennial Professor of Law at University of Minnesota Law School]. “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy.” Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 88 no. 1 (1998). “Rational choice theory…heavily than adults.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Barry Feld [Centennial Professor of Law at University of Minnesota Law School]. “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy.” Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology 88 no. 1 (1998). “Although we measure…as more severe.”[[#_GoBack]]</span>


=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]