1AC 1:

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;">(http://afghancitizen.blogspot.com/)</span>


(http://mideastunes.com/acrassicauda/)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(“The Women Outside: Korean Women and the US Military” Documentary, 1995, Third World Newsreel)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;">(Deniz Gokcebay)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;">(Lani Frazer)</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 0in;">(http://mideastunes.com/jonturk/)</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 0in;">(http://www.paul-kennedy.com/DayInLife.htm)</span>



<span style="font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 24pt;">(Japan Kadena Town Mayor Tokujitsu Miyagi)</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(http://mideastunes.com/silentscream/)</span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“The Women Outside: Korean Women and the US Military” Documentary, 1995, Third World Newsreel)</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://www.thepriceofliberty.org/05/07/05/worden.htm</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 0in;">http://mideastunes.com/kabuldreams/</span>


1AC 2:

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">([[http://eye.columbiaspectator.com/article/2010/12/02/out-valley]])</span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://mideastunes.com/acrassicauda/]]</span></span>**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Okinawa City Mayor Mitsuko Tomon, Japan</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">([[http://carpetblog.typepad.com/carpetblogger/2008/07/now-accepting-applications-worlds-worst-terrorist.html]])</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (“The Women Outside: Korean Women and the US Military” Documentary, 1995, Third World Newsreel)</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://mideastunes.com/dj-devil/|**http://mideastunes.com/dj-devil/**]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">([[http://riverbendblog.blogspot.com/]])</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">([[http://www.counterpunch.org/cpnews02212008.html]])</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“The Women Outside: Korean Women and the US Military” Documentary, 1995, Third World Newsreel)</span>


<span style="tab-stops: 206.65pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">([[http://thewhitepath.com/rethinking-the-west/the-world-after-wikileaks/]])</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">([[http://q8sws.blogspot.com/]])</span>

<span style="tab-stops: 206.65pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">
</span> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DbRUjfFKrBc&feature=related|**http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DbRUjfFKrBc&feature=related**]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">  </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">1AC 3:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Jongwhee Park\**</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://mideastunes.com/strive-mc/|**http://mideastunes.com/strive-mc/**]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">  </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(http://observers.france24.com/content/20100506-american-soldier-japan-only-minority-think-we-monsters-okinawa-futenma) </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">( <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif;">[[http://aliveinbaghdad.org/category/blog/]])</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">([[http://www.248am.com/mark/news/is-kuwait-preparing-for-war-in-gulf/]])</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**[[http://thewhitepath.com/rethinking-the-west/the-world-after-wikileaks/]])** </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“The Women Outside: Korean Women and the US Military” Documentary, 1995, Third World Newsreel)</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://hoqoqbashar-en.blogspot.com/]])</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Kadena Town Mayor Tokujitsu Miyagi, Japan</span></span>



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://thewhitepath.com/rethinking-the-west/the-world-after-wikileaks/]]) </span></span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://mideastunes.com/silentscream/|**http://mideastunes.com/silentscream/**]]</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">1AC 4:</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 208.65pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">([[http://voiceofafghans.blogspot.com/]]) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://mideastunes.com/bloodstone/|**http://mideastunes.com/bloodstone/**]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">  </span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.bakedlife.com/2011/01/japanese-citizen-and-marijuana-activist.html]]) </span></span>**


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“The Women Outside: Korean Women and the US Military” Documentary, 1995, Third World Newsreel)</span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 206.65pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">([[http://turkishblogcount.wordpress.com/]]) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://mideastunes.com/strive-mc/|**http://mideastunes.com/strive-mc/**]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">  </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">([[http://riverbendblog.blogspot.com/]]) </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">([[https://www.blogger.com/comment.g?blogID=4168445654702597413&postID=2019090162474665527]]) </span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://mideastunes.com/acrassicauda/]]  </span></span>**</span>


<span style="tab-stops: 206.65pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: 900;">Kadena Town Mayor Tokujitsu Miyagi, Japan</span></span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(“The Women Outside: Korean Women and the US Military” Documentary, 1995, Third World Newsreel) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">
</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://mideastunes.com/jonturk/]]</span></span>**




<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> All 1AC's:</span>




<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Thus the role of the ballot is to endorse our opened discursive space as a stand against the power that traditional high school policy debate maintains in discourse about the topic countries of the resolution.</span>



Our advocacy is a change in the squo research and presentation model of debate. This is the only way to address the need to lessen oppression and seek a more equitable world.
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Tierney and Lincoln 97</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> (William G. Tierney and Yvonna S. Lincoln, “Representation and the Text: Re-framing the Narrative Voice,” 1997, p. viii)</span>

We must reject status quo discursive domination. It is the only path to freedom. Instead we must create a mosaic of perspectives as a nonoppressive synthesis. 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kincheloe 97 ("Fiction Formulas: Critical Constructivism and the Representation of Reality," "Representation and the Text: Re-framing the Narrative Voice", 1997, p. 57-80)</span>


Each round is key—daily resistance is critical to look outside of the state’s “frame” and embrace different perspectives that are kept out of public discourse.
Butler 10 (Judith Butler, 2010, "Frames of War: When is Life Grievable?', p. xii-xiv)





Old Advocacy:


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Thus my partner Laynie and I advocate that the role of the ballot is to endorse our opened discursive space as a stand against the power that the United States maintains in South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, and Turkey.</span>








<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">1AC BLAKE:</span>

Contention 1: What they say and how they say it. The "essential" discourse of South Korea prostitution AFFs. Wiki 10

<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Thus we present the following plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in the Republic of Korea. We will clarify. </span>

Contention 2: What WE say and why WE say it

The discourse and language of essentialism is based in exclusionary aims. 
Butler 90 (Judith Butler, "Gender Trouble", 1990, p. 3) 

Language shapes reality and what we say in every debate round. 
Farmer 95 (David John Farmer, 1995, "The Language of Public Administration Bureaucracy, Modernity, and Postmodernity", p. 1)

Current policymaking is limited--only a changed discourse can be effective. 
Farmer 95 (David John Farmer, 1995, "The Language of Public Administration Bureaucracy, Modernity, and Postmodernity", p. ix)

Changing current dialogue and evaluating power relations comes first. 
Butler 90 (Judith Butler, "Gender Trouble", 1990, p. 20-21)

Narratives and discourse are key to full knowledge--other forms of representation are lacking. 
White 87 (Hayden White, 1987, "The Content of the Form", p. 30)

Narratives are a powerful form of political action--they are unifying and incorporate the very real experiences in the lives of individuals. 
Bove 98 (Paul A. Bove, "Counternarratives, Recoveries, Refusals", 1998, p. 1-9)

Our discourse is key to resist the current dialogues of power relations, which is critical to end essentialist and orientalist generalizations. 
Bleiker 2K ( Roland Bleiker, 2000, "Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics," p. 209-210)

Each round and our dissent are key--daily acts of resistance transform society and lead to change. 
Bleiker 2K ( Roland Bleiker, 2000, "Popular Dissent, Human Agency and Global Politics," p. 207)

Contention 3: Yeah, so maybe we are a little bit critical, but here's why that is ok. 

Unexamined SQUO discourse shapes us all. We must deconstruct that discourse and incorporate narratives of ourselves in order to escape domination and oppression. 
Kincheloe 97 ("Fiction Formulas: Critical Constructivism and the Representation of Reality," "Representation and the Text: Re-framing the Narrative Voice", 1997, p. 57-80)

Language creates reality. Only the AFF breaks down the power bloc to create a dialogue between the researcher and the researched. 
Kincheloe 97 ("Fiction Formulas: Critical Constructivism and the Representation of Reality," "Representation and the Text: Re-framing the Narrative Voice", 1997, p. 57-80)

The AFF is the only path to rescue future scholarship and the self from SQUO hegemonic representations. The role of the ballot is to endorse the AFF's opened discursive space as a stand against the power that forecloses our world. 
Kincheloe 97 ("Fiction Formulas: Critical Constructivism and the Representation of Reality," "Representation and the Text: Re-framing the Narrative Voice", 1997, p. 57-80)

Contention 4: Why what we say here may help

Narratives

<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">OLD 1AC:</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in the Republic of Korea through an early withdrawal of the U.S. infantry units, to be followed later by air and naval forces. We'll clarify if necessary. </span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">The US is strong and increasing its power in the ROK. VOA News 9/24</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(VOA News, multimedia international broadcasting service funded by the U.S. Government, 9/24/10, “South Korea, US Prepare for Anti-Sub Warfare Drill”, [[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/South-Korea-US-Prepare-for-Anti-Sub-Warfare-Drill--103702379.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States and ........ an unpredictable grave phase."</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">US troops are in 100 strong bases in the ROK; prostitution is solely because of military presence. Dujisin 9 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Zoltán Dujisin, Political Science graduate and Master’s degree in Nationalism Studies, 7/7/09, “Prostitution Thrives with U.S. Military Presence”, [[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556]], ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since 1945, U.S. troops ........ legal care for sex workers, told IPS.</span>

<span style="tab-stops: 358.65pt;">**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">US ground forces do little to help. Kelly 4 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jack Kelly, Pulitzer Prize-finalist and star journalist, 6/8/04, “US plans to cut troops in Republic of Korea”, [[http://www.globalsecurity.org/org/news/2004/040608-rok-troop-plans.htm]], philosophically paraphrased ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"I don't think this changes the ........ the Republic of Korea is stronger."</span>

Advantage 1: Patriarchy 
Prostitution thrives in the Republic of Korea due to US military presence. Capdevilla 2
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(GUSTAVO CAPDEVILLA, journalist for inter press service, 2002, “Filipinas, Russians trafficked for US military bases in Korea”, [[http://www.philippinestoday.net/ofwcorner/ofw11_5.htm]], philosophically paraphrased)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The plight of trafficked ...... supply of Republic of Korean women."</span>

<span style="tab-stops: .5in 358.65pt;">**<span style="font-weight: normal;">The camptowns are solely dependent on the US military--Korean men are not allowed in the bars. Macintyre 2</span>**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: .5in 358.65pt;">**<span style="font-size: 11px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 16px;">(Donald Macintyre, reporter, editor, and bureau chief for Times Magazine, specifically for North and Republic of Korea, 8/5/02, “Base Instincts”, [[http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,333899,00.html]], )</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But the reality is ......... says military spokesman Taylor.)</span>

<span style="tab-stops: .5in 358.65pt;">**<span style="font-weight: normal;">Korean society has hidden sex discrimination and made it a low priority issue. Song and Moon 98 </span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Young I. Song, Ph.D., professor of sociology and social services, Ailee Moon, Ph.D., professor in department of social welfare at UCLA, 1998, “Korean American Women: From Tradition to Modern Feminism”, p. 269-270, Praeger Publishing, ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is a widespread ..... and measure the incidences.</span>

**<span style="font-weight: normal;">Privileging masculinity is at the root of all impacts - solving patriarchy is a prerequisite to genuine peace. Tickner 92 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">[J. Ann, Professor of International Relations at University of Southern California, "Gender in International Relations: Feminist Perspectives on Achieving Global Security," page 128, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Previous chapters have ......</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> including unequal gender relations. </span>

Advantage 2: Dehumanization
The sexual exploitation that occurs destroys camptown women. Song and Moon 98
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Young I. Song, Ph.D., professor of sociology and social services, Ailee Moon, Ph.D., professor in department of social welfare at UCLA, 1998, “Korean American Women: From Tradition to Modern Feminism”, p. 243, Praeger Publishing, ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In Korean tradition, ....... victims of sexual violence.</span>

These women are victims of abuse and become trapped. Dujisin 9
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Zoltán Dujisin, Political Science graduate and Master’s degree in Nationalism Studies, 7/7/09, “Prostitution Thrives with U.S. Military Presence”, [[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556]], ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Even in those cases ..... Asian countries. (END)</span>

They are then socially isolated. Song and Moon 98
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Young I. Song, Ph.D., professor of sociology and social services, Ailee Moon, Ph.D., professor in department of social welfare at UCLA, 1998, “Korean American Women: From Tradition to Modern Feminism”, p. 280, Praeger Publishing, )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the Korean ..... socially isolated(Feldman, 1983).</span>

This dehumanization affects the entire Korean society. Song and Moon 98
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Young I. Song, Ph.D., professor of sociology and social services, Ailee Moon, Ph.D., professor in department of social welfare at UCLA, 1998, “Korean American Women: From Tradition to Modern Feminism”, p. 288, Praeger Publishing, )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dehumanization of women ..... not basically changed. (1974).</span>

<span class="cite">Dehumanization means no value to life. Dillon 99 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael Dillon, Professor of Politics at University of Lancaster, April 1999, “Another Justice” Political Theory Vol. 27, No. 2, ) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Otherness is born(e) within ....</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> human way of being.</span></span>

Contention 2: Solvency
Withdrawal is key to end US military and sexual dominance in the ROK—once the US troops are gone camptown women can leave the bases. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Moon 97</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Katharine H.S., Department of Political Science and Chair of Asian Studies @ Wellesley College, “Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S./Korea Relations”, 1997, Columbia University Press, p. 8, )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-left: 0in;">I think <span class="DebateUnderline">there is</span> yet <span class="DebateUnderline">another</span>, .... domination of the GI.</span>

Exploitation of women in the camptowns is a direct result of US presence--US withdrawal would end all of their regulation. Wu and Chen 10
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Jean Yu-wen Shen Wu, senior lecturer in the American studies program at Tufts University and the coeditor of Asian American Studies: A Reader, and Thomas C. Chen, doctoral candidate in the American civilization department at Brown University, 2010, “Asian American Studies Now: A Critical Reader”, p. 243, Rutgers University Press, philosophically paraphrased )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the Republic of Korean government, ..... the soldiers (Strurdevant and Stoltzfus, 176-179).</span>

Withdrawal should start this year. Jung-Ik 96
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Kim Jung-Ik, US Policy Division, Ministry of National Defense, and Republic of Korea Army, 1996, “The Future of the US-Republic of Korea Military Relationship,” p. 136, Macmillan and St. Martin’s Press, )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Calls for further..... it this year."</span>

It should start with the ground forces. Jung-Ik 96
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Kim Jung-Ik, US Policy Division, Ministry of National Defense, and Republic of Korea Army, 1996, “The Future of the US-Republic of Korea Military Relationship,” p. 137-138, Macmillan and St. Martin’s Press, )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet more strenuous ..... if necessary.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">The US is seen as an imperialist and invader in the camptowns--withdrawal is key to end camptown prostitution and national shame. Lee 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Na Young Lee, Ph.D. and Professor in the Department of women’s studies, 2006, “The Construction of US Camptown Prostitution in Republic of Korea: Trans/formation and Resistence “, p. 169-170, [[http://www.lib.umd.edu/drum/bitstream/1903/4162/1/umi-umd-3959.pdf]], )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And then, around the ....... nature of prostitution itself.</span>

Plan is the first step to preserving life on earth. Warren and Cady 96
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Karen and Duane, Professors of Philosophy at Malacaster College and Hamline University, Hypatia, Spring, )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The notion of patriarchy ....... national, and global contexts.</span>

Plan disrupts status quo frameworks and is the first step towards resisting the structure of domination. Peterson 92
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">[V. Spike Peterson, “Gendered States: Feminist (re)visions of International Relations Theory”, 1992, [[http://www.questia.com/read/98189720?title=Gendered%20States%3a%20Feminist%20%28Re%29Visions%20of%20International%20Relations%20Theory|http://www.questia.com/read/98189720?title=Gendered%20States%3a%20Feminist%20%28Re%29Visions%20of%20International%20Relations%20Theory#]], ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Attempts to rectify ...... other social hierarchies.</span>

Feminist action comes first, before other concerns. USFG action on this issue key. 
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Enloe 2000</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Cynthia Enloe, professor of government and women’s studies at Clark University, Masculinity As Foreign Policy Issue, THE PROGRESSIVE RESPONSE, Volume 5, Number 36 October 2000, ) </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Feminist investigation ........ useful foreign policy.</span>

Evaluating patriarchy comes before nuclear war. Parker 99
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">( Richard Parker, Lecturer in Public Policy and Senior Fellow of the Shorenstein Center, 1999, Culture, Society, and Sexuality)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The time has come ....... in effect, renegotiated. </span>

Debating foreign policy without examining masculine assumptions is flawed. A feminist analysis is a prerequisite to solving conflicts. 
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Enloe 2K</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Cynthia Enloe, professor of government and women’s studies at Clark University, Masculinity As Foreign Policy Issue, THE PROGRESSIVE RESPONSE, Volume 5, Number 36 October 2000, )</span>
<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Foreign policy is ......with an “alternative.”</span></span>

Competing impacts claims are a reason to vote affirmative—they’re simply an attempt to justify patriarchy by trivializing the impacts of violence against women. Enloe 04
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Cynthia, Professor of women’s Studies at Clark University, “The Curious Feminist”, pg. 73-74, ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;"> Violence against women ...... think to add “lesbian”).</span>

Now is the time to fight sex inequalities. Song and Moon 98
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Young I. Song, Ph.D., professor of sociology and social services, Ailee Moon, Ph.D., professor in department of social welfare at UCLA, 1998, “Korean American Women: From Tradition to Modern Feminism”, p. 287, Praeger Publishing, )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Korean American society ........ assumptions is wrong. </span>

US military presence in the Republic of Korea is not needed--withdrawal is key to any chance of Korean cooperation and there's no risk of Chinese rise. Meyer 3
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">(Carlton Meyer, journalist and served one year with the US Marine Corps in Asia, 2003, “The Mythical North Korean threat”, [[http://www.g2mil.com/korea.htm]], )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The US military ....... beyond Cold War levels. </span>