[[toc]]



**More information is** **available [[2010-2011 — St. Mark's (TX) — Rishee Batra & Alex Miles|from the main page]].**

=Topicality= 

==Topicality Substantial - 50%== 

**Interpretation and violation – substantial is 50%**

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">US Department of Defense (</span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">DOD</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">), produced by the Office of Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics), Office of Assistant Secretary of Defense (Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence), Office of Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, “Mandatory Procedures for Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPS) and Major Automated Information Systems (MAIS) Acquisition Programs,” April 5, </span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2002</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, [[http://www.explorationsystems.nasa.gov/documents/TTT_052005/DoD50002R.pdf%20DA%207/12/2010|http://www.explorationsystems.nasa.gov/documents/TTT_052005/DoD50002R.pdf DA 7/12/2010]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">C7.10.3.12. The DoD Components shall not terminate or substantially reduce participation in joint ACAT ID programs without Requirements Authority review and USD(AT&L) approval; or in joint ACAT IA programs without Requirements Authority review and ASD(C3I) approval. The USD(AT&L) or ASD(C3I) may require a DoD Component to continue some or all funding, as necessary, to sustain the joint program in an efficient manner, despite approving their request to terminate or reduce participation. </span><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Substantial reduction is</span> defined as a</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> funding or quantity </span><span class="underline">decrease of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">50 percent or more in</span> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">total</span> funding or <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">quantities</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in the latest President's Budget for that portion of the joint program funded by the DoD Component seeking the termination or reduced participation. </span>

**Presence is the totality of military activities in each country.**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Barry M. </span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blechman et al</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, President of DFI International, Spring, </span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Strategic Review, p.14 </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Given its multifaceted nature, neither practitioners nor scholars have yet settled on a single definition of </span><span class="underline">presence</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Technically, the term </span><span class="underline">refers to </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">both a military posture and a military objective. This study uses the term “presence” to refer to </span><span class="underline">a continuum of military activities</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, from a variety of interactions during peacetime to crisis response involving both forces on the scene and those based in the United States. </span><span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Our definition</span> follows that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">articulated by the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff</span>: “<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Presence is the </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">totality of U.S</span>. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">instruments of power deployed</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> overseas (both permanently and temporarily) </span><span class="underline">along with the requisite infrastructure and sustainment capabilities</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">."</span>


=Politics= 

==START - Ghill== 
== == 
never extended in the block - here's the 1nc 

**Obama is pushing and eventual passage is likely**
**Fabian, 8/27** (Jordan, 8/27/10, The Hill, “Lugar: 'Large majority' of Republicans will back START treaty,” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/116169-lugar-large-majority-of-republicans-will-back-start-treaty]], JMP) 

Sen. Richard Lugar, the ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, predicted Friday that a "large majority" of members in his party will back a key nuclear arms reduction treaty with Russia and that it will be ratified. So far, Lugar (Ind.) has been the only Senate Republican to back the new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START), which was negotiated in the spring but has yet to be ratified by the Senate. The Indiana Republican predicted that the treaty pass his committee in mid-September and will come up for a vote in the lame-duck session after the November elections. "In fairness to the Republicans in the Senate, I think a majority in fact do favor the treaty nominally and will eventually vote for the treaty," he said in an interview on C-SPAN's "Newsmakers" program that will air Sunday. If it is brought up, "a large number of Republicans will be in favor of the treaty, but not all of them," he said. President Obama has urged the Senate to ratify the treaty for months, but it has been stalled in the Senate due to Republican doubts over the agreement. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney (R), a 2008 presidential candidate, penned a July Washington Post op-ed, in which he called the START "Obama's worst foreign policy mistake yet," arguing it would impede U.S. missile defense efforts and give the Russians too many concessions. Lugar at the time called his comments "hyperbolic." The veteran senator acknowledged that some in his party are using the ratification process to gain commitments from the Obama administration to modernize the country's existing nuclear facilities. He also said that some in his party, going back years, "don't like the Russians, don't trust them, don't want to deal with them." By rule, getting enough Republicans on board to ratify a treaty would be a heavier lift than passing legislation -- it takes 67 senators to approve a treaty, meaning eight Republicans will need to vote for the treaty assuming all 59 Democrats do as well. Lugar expressed "hope" that the treaty would not turn into a political football since it is likely to come up after the November midterm elections, which senators will not be feeling the pressures of the campaign trail. "I think a large majority of Republicans agree with me" on arms reduction, he said. "But I'm hopeful, to get to your point, that we will not get into a political situation in which Republicans say 'well this is a treaty that President Obama and his folks negotiated, ipso facto, it must not be a very good treaty. That would be very unfortunate. But I think we will not deal with the treaty on the floor until after the election."

**Plan kills capital**
**Engelhardt 10**. [Tom, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com , “Yes, We Could…. Get Out! –Why we won’t leave Afghanistan or Iraq” Atlantic Free Press -- lexis] 

Have you noticed, by the way, that there’s always some obstacle in the path of withdrawal? Right now, in Iraq, it’s the aftermath of the March 7th election, hailed as proof that we brought democracy to the Middle East and so, whatever our missteps, did the right thing. As it happens, the election, as many predicted at the time, has led to a potentially explosive gridlock and has yet to come close to resulting in a new governing coalition. With violence on the rise, we’re told, the planned drawdown of American troops to the 50,000 level by August is imperiled. Already, the process, despite repeated assurances, seems to be proceeding slowly. And yet, the thought that an American withdrawal should be held hostage to events among Iraqis all these years later, seems curious. There’s always some reason to hesitate -- and it never has to do with us. Withdrawal would undoubtedly be far less of a brain-twister if Washington simply committed itself wholeheartedly to getting out, and if it stopped convincing itself that the presence of the U.S. military in distant lands was essential to a better world (and, of course, to a controlling position on planet Earth). A Brief History of American Withdrawal Of course, there’s a small problem here. All evidence indicates that Washington doesn’t want to withdraw -- not really, not from either region. It has no interest in divesting itself of the global control-and-influence business, or of the military-power racket. That’s hardly surprising since we’re talking about a great imperial power and control (or at least imagined control) over the planet’s strategic oil lands. And then there’s another factor to consider: habit. Over the decades, Washington has gotten used to staying. The U.S. has long been big on arriving, but not much for departure. After all, 65 years later, striking numbers of American forces are still garrisoning the two major defeated nations of World War II, Germany and Japan. We still have about three dozen military bases on the modest-sized Japanese island of Okinawa, and are at this very moment fighting tooth and nail, diplomatically speaking, not to be forced to abandon one of them. The Korean War was suspended in an armistice 57 years ago and, again, striking numbers of American troops still garrison South Korea. Similarly, to skip a few decades, after the Serbian air campaign of the late 1990s, the U.S. built-up the enormous Camp Bondsteel in Kosovo with its seven-mile perimeter, and we’re still there. After Gulf War I, the U.S. either built or built up military bases and other facilities in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, and Bahrain in the Persian Gulf, as well as the British island of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. And it’s never stopped building up its facilities throughout the Gulf region. In this sense, leaving Iraq, to the extent we do, is not quite as significant a matter as sometimes imagined, strategically speaking. It’s not as if the U.S. military were taking off for Dubuque. A history of American withdrawal would prove a brief book indeed. Other than Vietnam, the U.S. military withdrew from the Philippines under the pressure of “people power” (and a local volcano) in the early 1990s, and from Saudi Arabia, in part under the pressure of Osama bin Laden. In both countries, however, it has retained or regained a foothold in recent years. President Ronald Reagan pulled American troops out of Lebanon after a devastating 1983 suicide truck bombing of a Marines barracks there, and the president of Ecuador, Rafael Correa, functionally expelled the U.S. from Manta Air Base in 2008 when he refused to renew its lease. ("We'll renew the base on one condition: that they let us put a base in Miami -- an Ecuadorian base," he said slyly.) And there were a few places like the island of Grenada, invaded in 1983, that simply mattered too little to Washington to stay. Unfortunately, whatever the administration, the urge to stay has seemed a constant. It’s evidently written into Washington’s DNA and embedded deep in domestic politics where sure-to-come "cut and run" charges and blame for "losing" Iraq or Afghanistan would cow any administration. Not surprisingly, when you look behind the main news stories in both Iraq and Afghanistan, you can see signs of the urge to stay everywhere. In Iraq, while President Obama has committed himself to the withdrawal of American troops by the end of 2011, plenty of wiggle room remains. Already, the New York Times reports, General Ray Odierno, commander of U.S. forces in that country, is lobbying Washington to establish “an Office of Military Cooperation within the American Embassy in Baghdad to sustain the relationship after... Dec. 31, 2011.” (“We have to stay committed to this past 2011,” Odierno is quoted as saying. “I believe the administration knows that. I believe that they have to do that in order to see this through to the end. It’s important to recognize that just because U.S. soldiers leave, Iraq is not finished.”) If you want a true gauge of American withdrawal, keep your eye on the mega-bases the Pentagon has built in Iraq since 2003, especially gigantic Balad Air Base (since the Iraqis will not, by the end of 2011, have a real air force of their own), and perhaps Camp Victory, the vast, ill-named U.S. base and command center abutting Baghdad International Airport on the outskirts of the capital. Keep an eye as well on the 104-acre U.S. embassy built along the Tigris River in downtown Baghdad. At present, it’s the largest “embassy” on the planet and represents something new in “diplomacy,” being essentially a military-base-cum-command-and-control-center for the region. It is clearly going nowhere, withdrawal or not. In fact, recent reports indicate that in the near future “embassy” personnel, including police trainers, military officials connected to that Office of Coordination, spies, U.S. advisors attached to various Iraqi ministries, and the like, may be more than doubled from the present staggering staff level of 1,400 to 3,000 or above. (The embassy, by the way, has requested $1,875 billion for its operations in fiscal year 2011, and that was assuming a staffing level of only 1,400.) Realistically, as long as such an embassy remains at Ground Zero Iraq, we will not have withdrawn from that country. Similarly, we have a giant U.S. embassy in Kabul (being expanded) and another mega-embassy being built in the Pakistani capital Islamabad. These are not, rest assured, signs of departure. Nor is the fact that in Afghanistan and Pakistan, everything war-connected seems to be surging, even if in ways often not noticed here. President Obama’s surge decision has been described largely in terms of those 30,000-odd extra troops he’s sending in, not in terms of the shadow army of 30,000 or more extra private contractors taking on various military roles (and dying off the books in striking numbers); nor the extra contingent of CIA types and the escalating drone war they are overseeing in the Pakistani tribal borderlands; nor the quiet doubling of Special Operations units assigned to hunt down the Taliban leadership; nor the extra State department officials for the “civilian surge”; nor, for instance, the special $10 million “pool” of funds that up to 120 U.S. Special Operations forces, already in those borderlands training the paramilitary Pakistani Frontier Corps, may soon have available to spend “winning hearts and minds.” Perhaps it’s historically accurate to say that great powers generally leave home, head elsewhere armed to the teeth, and then experience the urge to stay. With our trillion-dollar-plus wars and yearly trillion-dollar-plus national-security budget, there’s a lot at stake in staying, and undoubtedly in fighting two, three, many Afghanistans (and Iraqs) in the years to come.

**Political capital key to passage**
**Interfax News Agency, 10** (BBC Worldwide Monitoring, 4/9/10, “Russian pundit questions outlook for US ratification of new arms cuts deal,” Lexis) *Note – Sergey Rogov is the director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute

However, Obama will have to obtain the ratification of the treaty by the Senate this year, Rogov said. "Obama will need to use up all his political capital in order to obtain the treaty's ratification this year. Why does it have to be this year? There will be mid-term Congress elections in November and one-third of Senators are to be elected. It appears that the Republicans will win back five or six seats. It is even possible that they will win back the majority and in this case Obama will need not eight Republican votes but 13 or 15 or even more," he added. "Taking into account the fact that radical right-wing extremist ideas have become popular in the Republican Party, the new Republican Senators will be even more conservative," the expert said. Nevertheless, he did add that the incumbent American administration has "good connections in the Senate".

**START key to jumpstarting global nuclear reductions – prevents nuclear extinction**
**Starr, 10 –** Expert on Nuclear Proliferation [4/9/10, “New START treaty represents an important achievement in arms control”, http://www.psr.org/nuclear-weapons/blog/new-start-treaty-represents.html]

Despite much criticism, the new START treaty represents an important achievement in arms control, because it restores verifiable and enforced nuclear arms reductions between the United States and Russia. It replaces the meaningless Strategic Offensive Reduction Treaty (SORT) negotiated by the Bush administration, which was jokingly described as “SORT of a nuclear arms control treaty”, because it contained no verification measures and only came into force the day it expired. The new START treaty contains real limits and vigorous state of the art verification measures, which will track nuclear activities and verify reductions as they occur on schedule. It also establishes significantly lower, legally-binding, verifiable limits on deployed strategic warheads – levels not seen since the days of the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations. START also provides for verification via on-site inspection of deployed warheads. Previous agreements had resorted to “counting rules” (which counted delivery systems, silos, launchers, etc.) rather than actual verification of warheads themselves, so this is a significant improvement. Each side will deploy no more than 1,550 warheads, and the agreement cuts the number of delivery systems in half. Thus, START is an important and necessary step forward in the process of creating a world without nuclear weapons. However, the nuclear reductions mandated by START do not create changes large enough to make a qualitative difference in nature of the 50+ year-long U.S.-Russian nuclear confrontation. The treaty does not address the fact that each nation still maintains at least 1000 strategic nuclear weapons on high-alert status, with most land-based forces capable of being launched with only a few minutes warning. Keeping nuclear weapons on high-alert is arguably the single most dangerous aspect of current force structures, because it makes possible the option of launching upon warning. Should such a warning prove to be false (or even an attack of conventional, non-nuclear warheads), such a responsive nuclear strike, launched in a matter of minutes, would actually amount to a first-strike which would begin an accidental nuclear war. Thus the new treaty does not significantly change or reevaluate the way in which nuclear forces are deployed. It retains the same essential force structures used during the height of the Cold War, with a triad of bombers and both land-based and sea-based ballistic missiles designed to thwart a “disarming” nuclear first-strike. Given that the Cold War supposedly ended almost 20 years ago, this doesn’t make sense. We must come to grips with a fundamental question: Why do we continue to keep thousands of nuclear weapons ready for instant use against the peoples of our nations? No one seriously believes that either nation would launch a nuclear attack against the other; there are no plausible political reasons to assume that anyone other than a madman would order such an attack. Furthermore, our best scientists, using NASA computers and climate models, now tell us that a war fought with these nuclear arsenals would surely end human history. The environmental consequences of a nuclear war fought with strategic nuclear weapons would leave the Earth uninhabitable. What possible political or national goal could justify such an end? It is with this knowledge we must press our political leaders to change their ways of thinking. There are many here in the U.S. who find fault with virtually any agreement to limit nuclear weapons; they are still thinking with a World War II mindset. They promise to oppose Senate passage of even this new START treaty, unless perhaps it is accompanied by massive new expenditures for our nuclear weapons complex, including the construction of a new factory to build nuclear warheads. We must not let the passage of this new START treaty become a means to prevent future arms reductions. So I suggest that it is time to educate our leaders about the environmental consequences of nuclear war, to make it clear that a single failure of nuclear deterrence, which leads to the detonation of START-size arsenals, would kill most people on Earth. We cannot expect to institutionalize nuclear arsenals forever and not have them eventually used in conflict. It requires new 21st century thinking to overcome the mindset of the Cold War. We are a single species living on a fragile planet, and we must use our imagination and vision to forge new alliances and understandings that no longer include plans for nuclear holocaust.

=A2 K Gibberish= 
==Violence Inevitable== 

**a) Evolution proves violence is inevitable and explains realism**
**Thayer 4 –** Thayer has been a Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and has taught at Dartmouth College and the University of Minnesota [Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict, University of Kentucky Press, 2004, pg. 75-76 //adi]

The central issue here is what causes states to behave as offensive realists predict. Mearsheimer advances a powerful argument that anarchy is the fundamental cause of such behavior. The fact that there is no world government compels the leaders of states to take steps to ensure their security, such as striving to have a powerful military, aggressing when forced to do so, and forging and maintaining alliances. This is what neorealists call a self-help system: leaders of states are forced to take these steps because nothing else can guarantee their security in the anarchic world of international relations. I argue that evolutionary theory also offers a fundamental cause for offensive realist behavior. Evolutionary theory explains why individuals are motivated to act as offensive realism expects, whether an individual is a captain of industry or a conquistador. My argument is that anarchy is even more important than most scholars of international relations recognize. The human environment of evolutionary adaptation was anarchic; our ancestors lived in a state of nature in which resources were poor and dangers from other humans and the environment were great—so great that it is truly remarkable that a mammal standing three feet high—without claws or strong teeth, not particularly strong or swift—survived and evolved to become what we consider human. Humans endured because natural selection gave them the right behaviors to last in those conditions. This environment produced the behaviors examined here: egoism, domination, and the in-group/out-group distinction. These specific traits are sufficient to explain why leaders will behave, in the proper circumstances, as offensive realists expect them to behave. That is, even if they must hurt other humans or risk injury to themselves, they will strive to maximize their power, defined as either control over others (for example, through wealth or leadership) or control over ecological circumstances (such as meeting their own and their family's or tribes need for food, shelter, or other resources).

**b) They can’t solve—violence is hardwired into our brains**
**Eisner 9—**prof of Comparative & Developmental Criminology, Deputy Director of the Institute, Cambridge. Work revolves around macro-level historical patterns of violence and research on individual development and the causes and prevention of aggressive behavior. PhD in sociology, U Zurich (Manuel, The Uses of Violence: An Examination of Some Cross-Cutting Issues, http://www.ijcv.org/index.php/ijcv/article/viewArticle/47, AMiles)

Research from all angles has produced convincing evidence that some features of violence are remarkably similar across time and space. These commonalities comprise: the sex distribution of people involved in fighting (mostly men); the approximate age at which people are most likely to engage in violence (about &' to 0)); essential goals over which fights are fought (material resources, power, and sex); situations that are prone to violence (e.g. humiliations in the presence of others); individual characteristics associated with violence (e.g. courage and risk-seeking); and emotional processes involved in violent encounters (e.g. arousal and anger). Such commonalities are difficult to understand from a purely cultural perspective. Rather, it is becoming increasingly clear that any general theory of violence will need to integrate an evolutionary perspective on human nature (Pinker +,,+). In an insightful paper, Wood (+,,/) has recently laid out how and why an evolutionary perspective is an essential element for the way social scientists understand violence both historically and across societies. On the most general level, an evolutionary perspective serves as a corrective to the view, long cherished amongst social scientists, that the human mind is essentially a blank slate, ready to store and retrieve whatever happens to characterize a given culture (Pinker +,,+). In contrast, evolutionary psychologists emphasize that the “hardwired” architecture of our brain evolved over long periods of time as a solution to the adaptive problems posed by the environmental conditions and problems in the ancestral world (Tooby and Cosmides &((+). Hence the human brain is theorized to be a network of “regulatory circuits” that “organize the way we interpret our experiences, inject certain recurrent concepts and motivations into our mental life, and provide universal frames of meaning that allow us to understand the actions and intentions of others” (Tooby and Cosmides &((/). In developing answers to these questions Buss and Shackelford (&((/) suggest that aggression is a highly context-specific collection of strategies that have evolved as an adaptation to recurrent problems that humans were confronted with during the history of human evolution. They may be grouped into strategies of proactive aggression developed to in#ict costs on rivals and reactive strategies that have developed to deter rivals and to defend one’s interests. The proactive use of aggression entails violence as means to gain access to resources that are valuable for reproduction (land, water, food); as a strategy to win in competitions against intrasexual rivals; and a way to negotiate status and power hierarchies. Reactive uses include strategies where violence is used to defend against attack, situations where it serves as a way to gain a reputation as aggressive in order to deter rivals from future aggression, and reactions that deter longterm mates from sexual infidelity (jealousy).

==A2 Patriarchy== 


**Patriarchy’s inevitable**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Fukuyama, prof of IR, 98</span>**—Professor of International Political Economy and Director of the International Development Program at Johns Hopkins. BA in classics from Cornell. PhD in government from Harvard (Francis, “Women and the Evolution of World Politics,” September 1998, http://www.evoyage.com/Evolutionary%20Feminism/ForAffairWomen&Evolution.htm, AMiles) </span>


It is clear that this violence was largely perpetrated by men. While small minorities of human societies have been matrilineal, evidence of a primordial matriarchy in which women dominated men, or were even relatively equal to men, has been hard to find. There was no age of innocence. The line from chimp to modern man is continuous.
It would seem, then, that there is something to the contention of many feminists that phenomena like aggression, violence, war, and intense competition for dominance in a status hierarchy are more closely associated with men than women. Theories of international relations like realism that see international politics as a remorseless struggle for power are in fact what feminist call a gendered perspective, describing the behavior of states controlled by men rather than states per se. A world run by women would follow different rules, it would appear, and it is toward that sort of world that all postindustrial or Western societies are moving. As women gain power in these countries, the latter should become less aggressive, adventurous, competitive and violent.
The problem with the feminist view is that is sees these attitudes toward violence, power, status as wholly the products of a patriarchal culture, whereas in fact it appears they are rooted in biology. This makes these attitudes harder to change in men and consequently in societies. Despite the rise of women, men will continue to play a major, if not dominant, part in the governance of postindustrial countries, not to mention less-developed ones. The realms of war and international politics in particular will remain controlled by men for longer than many feminists would like. Most important, the task of resocializing men to be more like women - that is, less violent - will run into limits. What is bred in the bone cannot be altered easily by changes in culture and ideology.

**Gender isn’t the root cause of war**
**Goldstein, IR prof, 1—**Professor of International Relations at American University, 2001 (Joshua S., War and Gender: How Gender Shapes the War System and Vice Versa, pp.411-412)

I began this book hoping to contribute in some way to a deeper understanding of war – an understanding that would improve the chances of someday achieving real peace, by deleting war from our human repertoire. In following the thread of gender running through war, I found the deeper understanding I had hoped for – a multidisciplinary and multilevel engagement with the subject. Yet I became somewhat more pessimistic about how quickly or easily war may end. The war system emerges, from the evidence in this book, as relatively ubiquitous and robust. Efforts to change this system must overcome several dilemmas mentioned in this book. First, peace activists face a dilemma in thinking about causes of war and working for peace. Many peace scholars and activists support the approach, “if you want peace, work for justice.” Then, if one believes that sexism contributes to war, one can work for gender justice specifically (perhaps among others) in order to pursue peace. This approach brings strategic allies to the peace movement (women, labor, minorities), but rests on the assumption that injustices cause war. The evidence in this book suggests that causality runs at least as strongly the other way. War is not a product of capitalism, imperialism, gender, innate aggression, or any other single cause, although all of these influence wars’ outbreaks and outcomes. Rather, war has in part fueled and sustained these and other injustices. So, “if you want peace, work for peace.” Indeed, if you want justice (gender and others), work for peace. Causality does not run just upward through the levels of analysis, from types of individuals, societies, and governments up to war. It runs downward too. Enloe suggests that changes in attitudes towards war and the military may be the most important way to “reverse women’s oppression.” The dilemma is that peace work focused on justice brings to the peace movement energy, allies, and moral grounding, yet, in light of this book’s evidence, the emphasis on injustice as the main cause of war seems to be empirically inadequate.

**Isolating gender as the root cause essentializes women and reinforces oppression**
**Ticker, prof of IR, 92—**professor at the School of International Relations, USC. B.A. in History, U London. M.A. in IR, Yale. PhD in pol sci, Brandeis U (Ann, Gender in International Relations Feminist Perspectives on Achieving Global Security, AMiles)

Building on the notion of hegemonic masculinity, the notion of the citizen-warrior depends on a devalued femininity for its construction. In international relations, this devalued femininity is bound up with myths about women as victims in need of protection; the protector/protected myth contributes to the legitimation of a militarized version of citizenship that results in unequal gender relations that can precipitate violence against women. Certain feminists have called for the construction of an enriched version of citizenship that would depend less on military values and more on an equal recognition of women's contributions to society. Such a notion of citizenship cannot come about, however, until myths that perpetuate views of women as victims rather than agents are eliminated.
One such myth is the association of women with peace, an association that has been invalidated through considerable evidence of women's support for men's wars in many societies. 79 In spite of a gender gap, a plurality of- women generally support war and national security policies; Bernice Carroll suggests that the association of women and peace is one that has been imposed on women by their disarmed condition. 80 In the West, this association grew out of the Victorian ideology of women's moral superiority and the glorification of motherhood. This ideal was expressed by- feminist Charlotte Perkins Gilman whose book Herland was first serialized in The Forerunner in 1915. Gilman glorified women as caring and nurturing mothers whose private sphere skills could benefit the world at large. 81 Most turn-of-the-century feminists shared Gilman's ideas. But if the implication of this view -was that women were disqualified from participating in the corrupt world of political and economic power by virtue of their moral superiority, the result could only be the perpetuation of male dominance. Many contemporary feminists see dangers in the continuation of these essentializing myths that can only result in the perpetuation of women's subordination and reinforce dualisms that serve to make men more powerful. The association of femininity with peace lends support to an idealized masculinity that depends on constructing women as passive victims in need of protection. It also contributes to the claim that women are naive in matters relating to international politics. An enriched, less militarized notion of citizenship- cannot be built on such a weak foundation.



**“Rape is worse than death” rhetoric is patriarchal and increases violence against womyn**
**Rayburn 4 –** Professor, John Marshall Law School (Corey, 78 St. John's L. Rev. 1119, AG)

There is a new, but very old, rhetoric buttressing proponents of these death penalty statutes. As long as populations and politicians can make the appeal that rape is an evil worse than death, they can push these laws with a load of Victorian, patriarchal baggage attached. Womyn and children become objects to be owned and controlled and the consequences of the rhetoric can be devastating on their lives. As long as womyn are told that they would be better off dead than raped, we will continue to read stories of womyn emulating Maria Goretti and dying as a consequence. Children will continue to feel that their meaningful life is over and suicides and trauma will become more common. Womyn and children will ultimately bear the insidious consequences of linguistic choices shaped by a patriarchal culture. That the adult men in power do not see the consequences of their words and do not think before they speak is nothing new. That they do so in order to support state killing adds substantial weight to the language of domination that they deploy. When womyn and children are nothing more than pawns in a game of politics and crime fighting, the result is sure to be negative for those without political power. When they also regurgitate and propagate notions of personhood derived from antediluvian conceptions of what it means to be raped and violated, the epistemological gap in comprehension creates a doubly blinding effect. Men in power rarely have [*1165] any understanding of rape or child molestation on a personal level. Thus, driving policy aims with a lack of understanding ensures effects outside of their narrow conception of the world. Death penalty statutes derived from belief without foundation and rhetoric without understanding will cause consequences unforeseen to those who could not comprehend the problems in the first place. As a result, the only way to position ourselves against these efforts is to stop them before they gain momentum built on frenzy and hysteria. Allowing capital rape statutes and the notion that "rape is worse than death" to gain a more significant foothold in the legal and cultural realms cannot be easily undone. It must start and stop with Louisiana and efforts to extend other laws around the globe must be similarly opposed. To do otherwise is to replicate and revive Victorian paradigms surrounding rape in a modern society and resubjugate womyn and children under a pernicious patriarchal regime of rhetoric and policy.

==A2 Root Cause== 


**No single root cause of anything**
**Martin, society prof, 90 –** associate professor of Society, U Wollongong (Brian, Uprooting War, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/90uw/uw13.html, AG)

Here I wish to note one important point: attention should not be focussed on one single factor to the exclusion of others. This is often done for example by some Marxists who look only at capitalism as a root of war and other social problems, and by some feminists who attribute most problems to patriarchy. The danger of monocausal explanations is that they may lead to an inadequate political practice. The 'revolution' may be followed by the persistence or even expansion of many problems which were not addressed by the single-factor perspective.


**The aff locks in the war system—infinite number of possible ‘root causes’ means that only incentives theory solves**
**Moore 4—**chaired law prof, UVA. Frm first Chairman of the Board of the US Institute of Peace and as the Counselor on Int Law to the Dept. of State (John, Beyond the Democratic Peace, 44 Va. J. Int'l L. 341, Lexis, AMiles)

If major interstate war is predominantly a product of a synergy between a potential nondemocratic aggressor and an absence of effective deterrence, what is the role of the many traditional "causes" of war? Past, and many contemporary, theories of war have focused on the role of specific disputes between nations, ethnic and religious differences, arms races, poverty and social injustice, competition for resources, incidents and accidents, greed, fear, perceptions of "honor," and many other factors. Such factors may well play a role in motivating aggression or generating fear and manipulating public opinion. The reality, however, is that while some of these factors may have more potential to contribute to war than others, there may well be an infinite set of motivating factors, or human wants, motivating aggression. It is not the independent existence of such motivating factors for war but rather the circumstances permitting or encouraging high-risk decisions leading to war that is the key to more effectively controlling armed conflict. And the same may also be true of democide. The early focus in the Rwanda slaughter on "ethnic conflict," as though Hutus and Tutsis had begun to slaughter each other through spontaneous combustion, distracted our attention from the reality that a nondemocratic Hutu regime had carefully planned and orchestrated a genocide against Rwandan Tutsis as well as its Hutu opponents. 158 Certainly if we were able to press a button and end poverty, racism, religious intolerance, injustice, and endless disputes, we would want to do so. Indeed, democratic governments must remain committed to policies that will produce a better world by all measures of human progress. The broader achievement of democracy and the rule of law will itself assist in this progress. No one, however, has yet been able to demonstrate the kind of robust correlation with any of these "traditional" causes of war that is reflected in the "democratic peace." Further, given the difficulties in overcoming many of these social problems, an approach to war exclusively dependent on their solution may doom us to war for generations to come. [*394] A useful framework for thinking about the war puzzle is provided in the Kenneth Waltz classic Man, the State and War, 159 first published in 1954 for the Institute of War and Peace Studies, in which he notes that previous thinkers about the causes of war have tended to assign responsibility at one of the three levels of individual psychology, the nature of the state, or the nature of the international system. This tripartite level of analysis has subsequently been widely copied in the study of international relations. We might summarize my analysis in this classical construct by suggesting that the most critical variables are the second and third levels, or "images," of analysis. Government structures, at the second level, seem to play a central role in levels of aggressiveness in high-risk behavior leading to major war. In this, the "democratic peace" is an essential insight. The third level of analysis, the international system, or totality of external incentives influencing the decision to go to war, is also critical when government structures do not restrain such high-risk behavior on their own. Indeed, nondemocratic systems may not only fail to constrain inappropriate aggressive behavior, they may even massively enable it by placing the resources of the state at the disposal of a ruthless regime elite. It is not that the first level of analysis, the individual, is unimportant - I have already argued that it is important in elite perceptions about the permissibility and feasibility of force and resultant necessary levels of deterrence. It is, instead, that the second level of analysis, government structures, may be a powerful proxy for settings bringing to power those who are disposed to aggressive military adventures and in creating incentive structures predisposed to high-risk behavior. We might also want to keep open the possibility that a war/peace model focused on democracy and deterrence might be further usefully refined by adding psychological profiles of particular leaders as we assess the likelihood of aggression and levels of necessary deterrence. Nondemocracies' leaders can have different perceptions of the necessity or usefulness of force and, as Marcus Aurelius should remind us, not all absolute leaders are Caligulas or Neros. Further, the history of ancient Egypt reminds us that not all Pharaohs were disposed to make war on their neighbors. Despite the importance of individual leaders, however, the key to war avoidance is understanding that major international war is critically an interaction, or synergy, of certain characteristics at levels two and three - specifically an absence of [*395] democracy and an absence of effective deterrence. Yet another way to conceptualize the importance of democracy and deterrence in war avoidance is to note that each in its own way internalizes the costs to decision elites of engaging in high-risk aggressive behavior. Democracy internalizes these costs in a variety of ways including displeasure of the electorate at having war imposed upon it by its own government. And deterrence either prevents achievement of the objective altogether or imposes punishing costs making the gamble not worth the risk. 160 III. Testing the Hypothesis Hypotheses, or paradigms, are useful if they reflect the real world better than previously held paradigms. In the complex world of foreign affairs and the war puzzle, perfection is unlikely. No general construct will fit all cases even in the restricted category of "major interstate war;" there are simply too many variables. We should insist, however, on testing against the real world and on results that suggest enhanced usefulness over other constructs. In te sting the hypothesis, we can test it for consistency with major wars. That is, in looking, for example, at the principal interstate wars in the twentieth century, did they present both a nondemocratic aggressor and an absence of effective deterrence? 161 And although it, by itself, does not prove causation, we might also want to test the hypothesis against settings of potential wars that did not occur. That is, in non-war settings, was there an absence of at least one element of the synergy? We might also ask questions about the effect of changes on the international system in either element of the synergy. That is, what, in general, happens when a totalitarian state makes a transition to stable democracy or vice versa? And what, in general, happens when levels of deterrence are dramatically increased or decreased?

**Discard non-empirical theories of war**
**Moore 4 –** Dir. Center for Security Law @ University of Virginia (7-time Presidential appointee, & Honorary Editor of the American Journal of International Law, Solving the War Puzzle: Beyond the Democratic Peace, John Norton Moore, page xxii-xxvi

The "cause" of the "democratic peace" is likely not any single factor. Rather it is a combination of factors inherent in differences between the culture of democracy and the culture of Hegelian "statism." These factors probably include: differential incentive structures for regime elites, and particularly the greater ability of such elites in statist systems to externalize costs on others while internalizing the benefits of their actions; differences in leaders assuming power through public appeal versus violence; differences between ideologies of human freedom versus statist ideologies, including pervasive differences concerning the rule of law, modalities for resolution of disputes, and deification of those in power; individual empowerment versus the collective, and many other important differences in subjectivities; higher levels of external trade and international interaction between democracies; greater internal checks and balances on the decision for war; resulting greater democratic nation wealth, which may predispose to greater caution in efforts at risky expansion of values; and many other pervasive differences in culture. Of these, "incentive theory" would suggest that one particularly important factor is likely to be the first on the list; that is, the differential effect on incentives for decision elites from all of these factors together; • Contrary to entrenched conventional wisdom within the social science community, democracies are considerably less likely to initiate aggressive war than nondemocracies. Further, the differences in total casualties between democratic and nondemocratic initiated aggression is overwhelming—on the order of one to a hundred; • Nondemocracies are frequently getting into major war through aggression. A principal path to war for democracies, and an additional path to war for nondemocracies, is an absence of effective deterrence; • An absence of effective deterrence, that is, of effective incentives from the international system, is a crucial factor in major war; • For this latter reason, deterrence, rather than simply levels of power, is a more important variable than power in the origin of major war. A common absence of effective deterrence results from a failure to communicate an intent to deter, whatever the specific reason for this failure; • The democracy/deterrence syndrome is an important recurrent feature in major war; • Because of the importance of deterrence in war avoidance, theory will benefit from a more objective scoring system for measuring levels of deterrence, as we now enjoy with several systems for the scoring of democracy. This book uses an initial effort at such a scoring system developed within the author's War & Peace Seminar; • The practice of deterrence should incorporate behavioral insights from cognitive psychology, particularly including "prospect theory." Other such behavioral insights should be incorporated into broader theory as relevance is demonstrated; • Incentive theory suggests a focus of deterrence on regime decision makers (that is, reducing their incentives for war), and this feature of incentive theory is already making its way into practice; • Original studies are referenced showing correlations between form of government and terrorism, state involvement in the drug trade, refugee flows, and corruption. These supplement important studies by others showing the correlation between democracy and war, democide, economic development, famine, infant mortality, and environmental protection; • Incentive theory likely is useful in analyzing civil war, terrorism, and minor coercion, as well as major war. Specific key variables and resulting incentives, however, may be different in these settings. For example, civil war does not lend itself readily to an analysis as to which party is an aggressor under international law; • Incentive theory suggests that a crucial role in strengthening collective security is to begin to think about enhancing the role of the United Nations and other collective security mechanisms in deterrence terms; that is, thinking about mechanisms to provide advance deterrence against aggression and democide rather than leaving such action to possible collective action after the event; • Stable trade not only serves to enhance economic development, it also serves to create incentives militating against major war. The effort to remove trade barriers should continue while retaining our sensitivity to labor and the environment; • Effective foreign policy should seek both a long-run strategy of democracy enlargement and a strategy of providing effective deterrence against rogue regimes as needed to deter war, democide, and terrorism; • Democratic nations should work together to strengthen pro- democracy initiatives, such as the "Community of Democracies"; • The United States might want to create a new position of Special Representative of the President for Democracy Assistance; and • The United States might want to add a more focused "warning-response" mechanism to the National Security Council charged with the specific responsibility of formulating and presenting to the President proposals for war avoidance in war crisis settings when alerted to such crises from the intelligence community. It should be clearly understood that the demonstration of correlation does not necessarily prove causation. As such, while this book seeks to integrate the best of the empirical work with the best of the theoretical work, it presents, and can only present, an hypothesis. We should, however, certainly discard theories that are not consistent with the available empirical evidence about war. Similarly, even if "incentive theory" proves a more useful focus in seeking to predict and control war, it does not offer a slot-machine for simple answers. The decision for war is affected by a complex aggregate of incentives. Even rejecting poorer modes of focus will not provide instant answers in specific cases any more than understanding that night air does not cause plague will by itself lead to a discovery of penicillin. Until we set aside pervasive myths about war and focus our attention on the critical variables, we will have little chance to control this age-old scourge of mankind. It is hoped that this book may make an at least modest contribution to its goal.

==A2 Epistemology== 



<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Epistemology not first </span>**</span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Owen 2</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">—Reader of Political Theory, U Southampton (David, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7) </span></span>

Commenting on the ‘philosophical turn’ in IR, Wæver remarks that ‘[<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a] frenzy for words like “epistemology” and “ontology” </span></span>often <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">signals this philosophical turn</span></span>’, although he goes on to comment that these terms are often used loosely.4 However, loosely deployed or not, it is clear that debates concerning ontology and epistemology play a central role in the contemporary IR theory wars. In one respect, this is unsurprising since it is a characteristic feature of the social sciences that periods of disciplinary disorientation involve recourse to reflection on the philosophical commitments of different theoretical approaches, and there is no doubt that such reflection can play a valuable role in making explicit the commitments that characterise (and help individuate) diverse theoretical positions. Yet, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">such a</span></span> philosophical <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">turn is not without its dangers</span></span> and I will briefly mention three before turning to consider a confusion that has, I will suggest, helped to promote the IR theory wars by motivating this philosophical turn. The first danger with the philosophical turn is that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it has an inbuilt tendency to **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">prioritise</span>**</span></span> issues of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ontology and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">epistemology over explanatory and/or interpretive power as if the latter </span>**two**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> were merely a </span>**simple**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> function of the former</span>**</span></span>. But <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">while the explanatory</span></span> and/or interpretive <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">power of a theoretical account is not</span></span> wholly <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">independent of its ontological and/or epistemological commitments</span></span> (otherwise criticism of these features would not be a criticism that had any value), <span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">it is by no means</span>** </span>clear that it is, in contrast, <span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">wholly dependent on these philosophical commitments</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. Thus, for example, one need not be sympathetic to rational choice theory to recognise that it can provide powerful accounts of certain kinds of problems, such as the tragedy of the commons in which dilemmas of collective action are foregrounded. It may</span></span>, of course, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">be the case that the advocates of rational choice theory cannot give a good account of why this type of theory is powerful in accounting for this class of problems</span></span> (i.e., how it is that the relevant actors come to exhibit features in these circumstances that approximate the assumptions of rational choice theory) <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and</span></span>, if <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this </span></span>is the case, it <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is a philosophical weakness</span></span>—<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">but **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">this does not undermine the point</span>** that, for a certain class of problems, rational choice theory may provide the best account available to us</span></span>. In other words, while the critical judgement of theoretical accounts in terms of their ontological and/or epistemological sophistication is one kind of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">critical judgement</span></span>, it <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is not</span></span> the only or even necessarily <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the most important kind. The </span></span>second danger run by the philosophical turn is that because <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">prioritisation of ontology and epistemology promotes theory-construction from philosophical first principles, it **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">cultivates a theory-driven rather than problem-driven approach to IR</span>**</span></span>. Paraphrasing Ian Shapiro, the point can be put like this: <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">since </span></span>it is the case that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">there is always a plurality of possible true descriptions of a given action,</span></span> event or phenomenon, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the challenge is to decide which is the most apt in terms of getting a perspicuous grip on the action, </span></span>event or phenomenon in question given the purposes of the inquiry; yet, from this standpoint,<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> ‘**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">theory-driven work is part of a reductionist program’</span>** in that it ‘dictates always opting for the description that calls for the explanation that flows from the preferred model or theory’</span></span>.5 The justification offered for this strategy rests on the mistaken belief that it is necessary for social science because general explanations are required to characterise the classes of phenomena studied in similar terms. However, as Shapiro points out, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this is to misunderstand the enterprise of science since ‘whether there are general explanations for classes of phenomena is a question for social-scientific inquiry, not to be prejudged before conducting that inquiry</span></span>’.6 Moreover, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this strategy **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">easily slips into the promotion of the pursuit of generality over that of empirical validity</span>**. </span></span>The third danger is that the preceding two combine to encourage the formation of a particular image of disciplinary debate in IR—what might be called (only slightly tongue in cheek) ‘the Highlander view’—namely, an image of warring theoretical approaches with each, despite occasional temporary tactical alliances, dedicated to the strategic achievement of sovereignty over the disciplinary field. It encourages this view because the turn to, and <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">prioritisation of, ontology and epistemology stimulates the idea that there can only be one theoretical approach which gets things right, namely, the theoretical approach that gets its ontology and epistemology right.</span></span> This image feeds back into IR exacerbating the first and second dangers, and so a potentially vicious circle arises.

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Our authors are not corrupt and are able to accurately predict the international arena </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Houghton 8</span>** – <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Associate Professor of International Relations Theory at the University of Central Florida</span> (David Patrick, Positivism ‘vs’ Postmodernism: Does Epistemology Make a Difference? //<span style="color: black;">International Politics</span>//<span style="color: black;"> (2008) 45 ) </span>

As long ago as 1981, Yale Ferguson and Richard Mansbach effectively laid the influence of the dogmatic behaviouralism of the 1960s to rest in their book //The Elusive Quest//, signaling the profound disillusionment of mainstream IR with the idea that a cumulative science of IR would ever be possible ([[@http://www.palgrave-journals.com/ip/journal/v45/n2/full/8800222a.html#bib6%23bib6|Ferguson and Mansbach, 1988]]). The popularity of the ‘naïve’ form of positivism, wed to a view of inexorable scientific progress and supposedly practiced by wide-eyed scholars during the 1960s, has long been a thing of the past. Postmodernists hence do the discipline a disservice when they continue to attack the overly optimistic and dogmatic form of positivism as if it still represented a dominant orthodoxy, which must somehow be overthrown. Equally, supporters of the contemporary or ‘neo-’ version of positivism perform a similar disservice when they fail to articulate their epistemological assumptions clearly or at all. Indeed, the first error is greatly encouraged by the second, since by failing to state what they stand for, neo-positivists have allowed postmodernists to fashion a series of straw men who burn rapidly at the slightest touch. Articulating a full list of these assumptions lies beyond the scope of this article, but contemporary neo-positivists are, I would suggest, committed to the following five assumptions, none of which are especially radical or hard to defend: (1) That explaining the social and political world ought to be our central objective, (2) That — subjective though our perceptions of the world may be — many features of the political world are at least potentially explainable. What remains is a conviction that there are at least some empirical propositions, which can be demonstrably shown to be ‘true’ or ‘false’, some underlying regularities that clearly give shape to IR (such as the proposition that democracies do not fight one another), (3) That careful use of appropriate methodological techniques can establish what patterns exist in the political world, (4) That positive and normative questions, though related, are ultimately separable, although both constitute valid and interesting forms of enquiry. There is also a general conviction (5) that careful use of research design may help researchers avoid logical pitfalls in their work. Doubtless, there are some who would not wish to use the term ‘positivism’ as an umbrella term for these five assumptions, in which case we probably require a new term to cover them. But to the extent that there exists an ‘orthodoxy’ in the field of IR today, this is surely it. Writing in 1989, Thomas Biersteker noted that ‘the vast majority of scholarship in international relations (and the social sciences for that matter) proceeds without conscious reflection on its philosophical bases or premises. In professional meetings, lectures, seminars and the design of curricula, we do not often engage in serious reflection on the philosophical bases or implications of our activity. Too often, consideration of these core issues is reserved for (and largely forgotten after) the introductory weeks of required concepts and methods courses, as we socialize students into the profession’ ([[@http://www.palgrave-journals.com/ip/journal/v45/n2/full/8800222a.html#bib2%23bib2|Biersteker, 1989]]). This observation — while accurate at the time — would surely be deemed incorrect were it to be made today. Even some **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">scholars </span>**who profess regret at the philosophically self-regarding nature of contemporary of IR theory, nevertheless feel compelled to **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">devote huge chunks of their work to epistemological issues</span>** before getting to more substantive matters (see for instance[[@http://www.palgrave-journals.com/ip/journal/v45/n2/full/8800222a.html#bib21%23bib21|Wendt, 1999]]). The recent emphasis on epistemology has helped to push IR as a discipline further and further away from the concerns of those who actually practice IR. The consequent decline in the policy relevance of what we do, and our retreat into philosophical self-doubt, is ironic given the roots of the field in very practical political concerns (most notably, how to avoid war). What I am suggesting is not that IR scholars should ignore philosophical questions, or that such ‘navel gazing’ is always unproductive, for questions of epistemology surely undergird every vision of IR that ever existed. Rather, I would suggest that the existing debate is sterile and unproductive in the sense that the various schools of thought have much more in common than they suppose; stated more specifically, postpositivists have much more in common than they would like to think with the positivists they seek to condemn. Consequently, to the extent that there is a meaningful dialogue going on with regard to **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">epistemological questions, it has no real impact on what we do as scholars when we look at the world</span>** ‘out there’. Rather than focusing on epistemology, it is inevitably going to be more fruitful to subject the substantive claims made by positivists (of all metatheoretical stripes) and postpositivists to the cold light of day. My own view, as the reader may have gathered already, is that the empirical claims of scholars like Der Derian and Campbell will not often stand up to such harsh scrutiny given the inattention to careful evidence gathering betrayed by both, but this is a side issue here; the point is that substantive theoretical and empirical claims, rather than metatheoretical or epistemological ones, ought to be what divides the international relations scene today.



==<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Predictions </span></span>== 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Predictions are feasible – they can be made logically from empirical evidence.</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Chernoff 9 </span>**(Fred, Prof. IR and Dir. IR – Colgate U., European Journal of International Relations, “Conventionalism as an Adequate Basis for Policy-Relevant IR Theory”, 15:1, Sage)

For these and other reasons, many social theorists and social scientists have come to the conclusion that prediction is impossible. Well-known IR reflexivists like Rick Ashley, Robert Cox, Rob Walker and Alex Wendt have attacked naturalism by emphasizing the interpretive nature of social theory. Ashley is explicit in his critique of prediction, as is Cox, who says quite simply, ‘It is impossible to predict the future’ (Ashley, 1986: 283; Cox, 1987: 139, cf. also 1987: 393). More recently, Heikki Patomäki has argued that ‘qualitative changes and emergence are possible, but predictions are not’ defective and that the latter two presuppose an unjustifiably narrow notion of ‘prediction’.14 A determined prediction sceptic may continue to hold that there is too great a degree of complexity of social relationships (which comprise ‘open systems’) to allow any prediction whatsoever. Two very simple examples may circumscribe and help to refute a radical variety of scepticism. First, we all make reliable social predictions and do so with great frequency. We can predict with high probability that a spouse, child or parent will react to certain well-known stimuli that we might supply, based on extensive past experience. More to the point of IR prediction – scepticism, we can imagine a young child in the UK who (perhaps at the cinema) (1) picks up a bit of 19th-century British imperial lore thus gaining a sense of the power of the crown, without knowing anything of current balances of power, (2) hears some stories about the US–UK invasion of Iraq in the context of the aim of advancing democracy, and (3) hears a bit about communist China and democratic Taiwan. Although the specific term ‘preventative strike’ might not enter into her lexicon, it is possible to imagine the child, whose knowledge is thus limited, thinking that if democratic Taiwan were threatened by China, the UK would (possibly or probably) launch a strike on China to protect it, much as the UK had done to help democracy in Iraq. In contrast to the child, readers of this journal and scholars who study the world more thoroughly have factual information (e.g. about the relative military and economic capabilities of the UK and China) and hold some cause-and-effect principles (such as that states do not usually initiate actions that leaders understand will have an extremely high probability of undercutting their power with almost no chances of success). Anyone who has adequate knowledge of world politics would predict that the UK will not launch a preventive attack against China. In the real world, China knows that for the next decade and well beyond the UK will not intervene militarily in its affairs. While Chinese leaders have to plan for many likely — and even a few somewhat unlikely — future possibilities, they do not have to plan for various implausible contingencies: they do not have to structure forces geared to defend against specifically UK forces and do not have to conduct diplomacy with the UK in a way that would be required if such an attack were a real possibility. Any rational decision-maker in China may use some cause-and-effect (probabilistic) principles along with knowledge of specific facts relating to the Sino-British relationship to predict (P2) that the UK will not land its forces on Chinese territory — even in the event of a war over Taiwan (that is, the probability is very close to zero). The statement P2 qualifies as a prediction based on DEF above and counts as knowledge for Chinese political and military decision-makers. A Chinese diplomat or military planner who would deny that theory-based prediction would have no basis to rule out extremely implausible predictions like P2 and would thus have to prepare for such unlikely contingencies as UK action against China. A reflexivist theorist sceptical of ‘prediction’ in IR might argue that the China example distorts the notion by using a trivial prediction and treating it as a meaningful one. But the critic’s temptation to dismiss its value stems precisely from the fact that it is so obviously true. The value to China of knowing that the UK is not a military threat is significant. The fact that, under current conditions, any plausible cause-and-effect understanding of IR that one might adopt would yield P2, that the ‘UK will not attack China’, does not diminish the value to China of knowing the UK does not pose a military threat. A critic might also argue that DEF and the China example allow non-scientific claims to count as predictions. But we note that while physics and chemistry offer precise ‘point predictions’, other natural sciences, such as seismology, genetics or meteorology, produce predictions that are often much less specific; that is, they describe the predicted ‘events’ in broader time frame and typically in probabilistic terms. We often find predictions about the probability, for example, of a seismic event in the form ‘some time in the next three years’ rather than ‘two years from next Monday at 11:17 am’. DEF includes approximate and probabilistic propositions as predictions and is thus able to catagorize as a prediction the former sort of statement, which is of a type that is often of great value to policy-makers. With the help of these ‘non-point predictions’ coming from the natural and the social sciences, leaders are able to choose the courses of action (e.g. more stringent earthquake-safety building codes, or procuring an additional carrier battle group) that are most likely to accomplish the leaders’ desired ends. So while ‘point predictions’ are not what political leaders require in most decision-making situations, critics of IR predictiveness often attack the predictive capacity of IR theory for its inability to deliver them. The critics thus **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">commit the straw man fallacy</span>** by requiring a sort of prediction in IR (1) that few, if any, theorists claim to be able to offer, (2) that are not required by policy-makers for theory-based predictions to be valuable, and (3) that are not possible even in some natural sciences.15 The range of theorists included in ‘reflexivists’ here is very wide and it is possible to dissent from some of the general descriptions. From the point of view of the central argument of this article, there are two important features that should be rendered accurately. One is that reflexivists reject explanation–prediction symmetry, which allows them to pursue causal (or constitutive) explanation without any commitment to prediction. The second is that almost all share clear opposition to predictive social science.16 The reflexivist commitment to both of these conclusions should be evident from the foregoing discussion.

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Turn—rejecting predictions makes them inevitable—decisionmakers will rely on ideology instead of analysis </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Fitzsimmons 7</span>** (Michael, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06/07) 

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">But handling even this weaker form of uncertainty is still quite challeng- ing. If not sufficiently bounded, a high degree of variability in planning factors can exact a significant price on planning. The complexity presented by great variability strains the cognitive abilities of even the most sophisticated decision- makers.15 And even a robust decision-making process sensitive to cognitive limitations necessarily sacrifices depth of analysis for breadth as variability and complexity grows. It should follow, then, that in planning under conditions of risk, variability in strategic calculation should be carefully tailored to available analytic and decision processes. Why is this important? What harm can an imbalance between complexity and cognitive or analytic capacity in strategic planning bring? Stated simply, where analysis is silent or inadequate, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the personal beliefs of decision-makers</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">fill the void</span>**. As political scientist Richard Betts found in a study of strategic sur- prise, in ‘an environment that lacks clarity, abounds with conflicting data, and allows no time for rigorous assessment of sources and validity, ambiguity allows intuition or wishfulness to drive interpretation ... The greater the ambiguity, the greater the impact of preconceptions.’16 The decision-making environment that Betts describes here is one of political-military crisis, not long-term strategic planning. But a strategist who sees uncertainty as the central fact of his environ- ment brings upon himself some of the pathologies of crisis decision-making. He invites ambiguity, takes conflicting data for granted and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">substitutes a priori scepticism about the validity of prediction</span>** for time pressure as a rationale for discounting the importance of analytic rigour. It is important not to exaggerate the extent to which data and ‘rigorous assessment’ can illuminate strategic choices. Ambiguity is a fact of life, and scepticism of analysis is necessary. Accordingly, the intuition and judgement of decision-makers will always be vital to strategy, and attempting to subordinate those factors to some formulaic, deterministic decision-making model would be both undesirable and unrealistic. All the same, there is danger in the opposite extreme as well. Without careful analysis of what is relatively likely and what is relatively unlikely, what will be the possible bases for strategic choices? A decision-maker with no faith in prediction is left with little more than a set of worst-case scenarios and his existing beliefs about the world to confront the choices before him. Those beliefs may be more or less well founded, but if they are not made explicit and subject to analysis and debate regarding their application to particular strategic contexts, they remain only beliefs and premises, rather than rational judgements. Even at their best, such decisions are likely to be poorly understood by the organisations charged with their implementation. At their worst, such decisions may be poorly understood by the decision-makers themselves. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Arguments why predictions aren’t 100% accurate aren’t a reason to reject them </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Chernoff 5—</span>**IR prof, Colgate. PhD from Yale. (Fred, The Power of International Theory, Ed. Barry Buzan and Richard Little, 157-9, AMiles)

In the social sciences the explanations of state behaviour in rational-choice theory, which posits the existence of a rationally behaving state, or in economics, which posits the existence of ‘the rational economic person’, are clearly idealisations. However, these are parallel to – and not completely disconnected from – the postulation of laws governing frictionless machines or ideal gases in the physical sciences. With regard to underlying and immediate causes, Bernstein et al. advance a number of points in the course of offering the critique of ‘predictiveness’ of IR theory and the scenario-based alternative that Bernstein et al. present. The main point to be made with respect to the use made by Bernstein et al. of the ‘uncertain relationships between underlying and immediate causes’ is that, in their view, such a connection ‘makes point prediction extraordinarily difficult’ (2000: 47). As will become clear, this chapter argues that IR theorists offer non-point predictions and that such predictions are often of genuine policy value. A statement like ‘a rapid withdrawal of US military forces from Iraq after the defeat of Saddam Hussein is likely to lead to increased violence and long-term instability’, would not qualify as a point prediction. Yet it is the sort of prediction that policymakers typically rely on and it has value for policy-makers. Bernstein et al. thus commit a straw-person fallacy, as do other critics of ‘predictiveness’ discussed above. They raise the bar of ‘prediction’ much too high. The sort of prediction that policy-makers need is often much less than ‘point prediction’. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">One may grant</span>** Bernstein et al. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">all</span>** of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">their points</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">seeking to undermine </span>**point**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> prediction and still conclude that they have not provided good reason to reject</span>** many sorts of statements that satisfy the requirements of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">prediction</span>**, as laid out in the definition on p. 8. With regard to learning, IR differs from predictive natural sciences in that, according to Bernstein et al., ‘[m]olecules do not learn from experience. People do, or think they do. … We know that expectations and behavior are influenced by experience, one’s own and others’ (2000: 47). They argue that US policies visàvis the USSR were a response to the failure of appeasement in the 1930s, and those policies were a response to British leaders’ belief that more aggressive policies failed to keep peace in 1914. They cite concepts like ‘chain reactions’ and ‘contagion effects’ to describe these phenomena and hazard analysis for their measurement. But they charge that these do not succeed in explaining ‘how and why these patterns emerge and persist’ (Bernstein et al. 2000: 47). They note also that theories that attempt to predict the future predict incorrectly in part because groups (often states) react in such a way as to prevent their predictions from obtaining. ‘Human prophecies … are often self-negating’ (Bernstein et al. 2000: 52). Another approach that has considerable explanatory success is cybernetic theory, which lays out mechanisms and may even be viewed as predictive. Cybernetic theory was developed by Wiener (1949) and applied to IR especially by Deutsch et. al (1957), and specifically to foreign-policy decision-making by Steinbruner (1974), Chernoff (1995) and others. It not only accords with the data but offers a causal mechanism to account for the patterns. Bernstein et al. argue that actors can change ‘the rules of the game’ and consequently ‘general theories of process in international relations will have restricted validity’ (Bernstein et al. 2000: 52). Generalisations will apply only to ‘discrete portions’ of history. They add that ‘scholars need to specify carefully the temporal and geographic domains to which their theories are applicable. We suspect those domains are often narrower and more constrained than is generally accepted’ (Bernstein et al. 2000: 52). This is, however, just what one of the most systematic and generalising of all IR scholars, i.e., Waltz, demands. He maintains that a body of propositions does not even qualify as a theory unless it so specifies. Once these restrictions on domain are specified, theoretical generalisations might have value. For example, Waltz says that whether we are interested in natural sciences or social sciences, ‘[n]o matter what the subject, we have to bound the domain of our concern, to organize it, to simplify the materials we deal with, to concentrate on the central tendencies, and to single out the strongest propelling forces’ (1979: 68). He later adds, ‘[t]o be a success … a theory has to show how international politics can be conceived of as a domain distinct from economic, social, and other international domains that one may conceive of ’ (1979: 79). So it is not accurate to suggest that IR theorists, at least careful ones, do not bound or constrain the scope of their studies and generalisations. While bounded theories may offer predictions, the fallible nature of all empirical knowledge and the probabilistic nature of IR laws does restrict what can be predicted. The longer the chain of reasoning and the greater the number of probabilistic propositions that are conjoined, the less one may rely on the predicted event. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">But this is an argument for limitations on certain types of predictions, not an argument against the predictiveness of</span>** IR or **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">social science theory</span>**. Bernstein et al. note also that there is the problem of the ‘single case’. They correctly observe that policy-makers often worry about a single instance of an event type (e.g., possible war with our neighbours on our western frontier in the next year) rather than with general propositions (e.g., the problem of war in general, or great-power war, etc.). First, with regard to the relevance of theory to policy, it is important to note that policy-makers do sometimes care about longrun patterns or generalisations in some of their decision-situations. Long-run generalisations are very frequently important for policy-makers. For example, in the 1990s, numerous new states emerged in Europe and central Asia due to the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of its domination of central eastern Europe. Policy-makers had to understand as correctly as possible the truth of generalisations in DP theory in order to decide how much in the way of financial and diplomatic resources should be committed to help promote democratic polities in the region. Policy-makers in 1994 were not primarily worried about a specific war, say, between Hungary and Slovakia, but rather the long-run chances of conflict arising in a Europe with many nondemocratic states as compared to a Europe with very few such states. Policy-makers could consider two alternative scenarios of the future. One is a Europe with some democratic states and many non-democratic ones, possibly including a non-democratic Russia. The other one envisions a Europe with virtually all democratic states. The generalisations about the effects of democracy on behaviour would allow policy-makers to draw general conclusions about peace and international stability from each scenario.

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Predictions might not be accurate, but that’s a reason they should read specific take-outs </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Fitzsimmons 7</span>** (Michael, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06/07) 

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">Much has been made about the defining role of uncertainty in strategic plan- ning since the end of the Cold War. With the end of bipolar competition, so the argument goes, and the accelerating pace of change in technology and inter- national political and economic relations, forecasting world events even a few years into the future has become exceedingly difficult. Indeed, few in the year 2000 would have described with much accuracy the current conditions facing national-security decision-makers. Moreover, history offers ample evidence, from the Schlieffen Plan to the Soviet economy, that rigid planning creates risks of catastrophic failure. Clearly, uncertainty demands an appreciation for the importance of flexibility in strategic planning. For all of its importance, however, recognition of uncertainty poses a dilemma for strategists: in predicting the future, they are likely to be wrong; but in resisting prediction, they risk clouding the rational bases for making strategic choices. Over-confidence in prediction may lead to good preparation for the wrong future, but wholesale dismissal of prediction may lead a strategist to spread his resources too thinly. In pursuit of flexibility, he ends up well pre- pared for nothing. A natural compromise is to build strategies that are robust across multiple alternative future events but are still tailored to meet the chal- lenges of the most likely future events. Recent US national security strategy, especially in the Department of Defense, has veered from this middle course and placed too much emphasis on the role of uncertainty. This emphasis, paradoxically, illustrates the hazards of both too much allowance for uncertainty and too little. Current policies on nuclear-force planning and the results of the recent Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) are examples of overreaching for strategic flexibility. The record of planning for post-war operations in Iraq, by contrast, indicates that decision-makers, in enlisting uncertainty as a rationale for discounting one set of predictions, have fallen prey to overconfidence in their own alternative set of predictions. A more balanced approach to accounting for uncertainty in strategic plan- ning would address a wide range of potential threats and security challenges, but would also incorporate explicit, transparent, probabilistic reasoning into planning processes. The main benefit of such an approach would not neces- sarily be more precise predictions of the future, but rather greater clarity and discipline applied to the difficult judgements about the future upon which strategy depends. </span>


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Despite uncertainty, predictions are still necessary and accurate </span>**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Cowen 4</span>** – Economics, George Mason (Tyler, The Epistemic Problem Does Not Refute Consequentialism, http://www.gmu.edu/jbc/Tyler/Epistemic2.pdf, AG)</span>

If we know for sure which remedy works, obviously we should apply that remedy. But imagine now that we are uncertain as to which remedy works. The uncertainty is so extreme that each remedy may cure somewhere between three hundred thousand and six hundred thousand children. Nonetheless we have a slight idea that one remedy is better than the other. That is, one remedy is slightly more likely to cure more children, with no other apparent offsetting negative effects or considerations. Despite the greater uncertainty, we still have the intuition that we should try to save as many children as possible. We should apply the remedy that is more likely to cure more children. We do not say: “We are now so uncertain about what will happen. We should pursue some goal other than trying to cure as many children as possible.” Nor would we cite greater uncertainty about longer-run events as an argument against curing the children. We have a definite good in the present (more cured children), balanced against a radical remixing of the future on both sides of the equation. The definite upfront good still stands firm. Alternatively, let us assume that our broader future suddenly became less predictable (perhaps genetic engineering is invented, which creates new and difficult-to-forecast possibilities). That still would not diminish the force of our reason for saving more children. The variance of forecast becomes larger on both sides of the equation – whether we save the children or not – and the value of the upfront lives remains. A higher variance of forecast might increase the required size of the upfront benefit (to overcome the Principle of Roughness), but it would not refute the relevance of consequences more generally. We could increase the uncertainty more, but consequentialism still will not appear counterintuitive. The remedies, rather than curing somewhere in the range of three to six hundred thousand children, might cure in the broader range of zero to all one million of the children. By all classical statistical standards, this new cure scenario involves more uncertainty than the previous case, such as by having a higher variance of possible outcomes. Yet this higher uncertainty lends little support for the view that curing the children becomes less important. We still have an imperative to apply the remedy that appears best, and is expected the cure the greater number of children. This example may appear excessively simple, but it points our attention to the non- generality of the epistemic critique. The critique appears strongest only when we have absolutely no idea about the future; this is a special rather than a general case. Simply boosting the degree of background generic uncertainty should not stop us from pursuing large upfront benefits of obvious importance. 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">There’s an explicit trade-off DA because embracing the affirmatives logic marginalizes all predictions </span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Fitzsimmons 7</span>** (Michael, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06/07) SAS

Finally, the planning for post-war operations in Iraq offers another perspec- tive on the tangled relationship between uncertainty and strategy. Problems of predicting the future are at the heart of intelligence analysis and its role in national-security strategy. While few would question the fragility of intelligence estimates or the chequered history of judgements made by the US intelligence community, prediction remains an important part of its mission. Beyond collect- ing and reporting raw information, intelligence organisations are often expected to identify trends and consider the implications of alternative strategies on the behaviour of allies and adversaries. To accomplish this difficult mission, intelli- gence analysts must rely on two crucial resources: good analytic tradecraft that provides transparent standards of evidence, and subject-matter expertise that enables an appreciation for the subtleties of complex human phenomena. But standards of evidence and subject-matter expertise are exactly the sorts of factors decision-makers sceptical of the reliability of prediction might be apt to discount. If uncertainty defines the strategic environment, then what greater insight can the expert analyst bring to bear on strategy than the generalist? **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">This attitude could marginalise</span>** intelligence **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">analysis in</span>** strategic **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">decision-making</span>**. US planning for the aftermath of the Iraq War exemplifies how such mar- ginalisation has played a significant role in recent strategic decision-making. In the judgement of Paul Pillar, the senior US intelligence official for Middle East analysis from 2000 to 2005, ‘what is most remarkable about prewar U.S. intelli-gence on Iraq is not that it got things wrong and thereby misled policymakers; it is that it played so small a role in one of the most important U.S. policy decisions in recent decades’.26 While great volumes of ink have been spilled in the debate over intelligence estimates of Iraqi nuclear, biological or chemical weapons, there is much more clarity about the intelligence community’s estimates of the political environment the US would face in post-war Iraq. Those estimates accu- rately predicted most of the major challenges that developed, from insurgency and sectarian violence to the strengthening of Iran’s geopolitical hand and the galvanising effect on foreign radical Islamists.27 The reported expectations of most key administration officials bore little resemblance to these predictions.28 Rumsfeld’s famous distinction between ‘known unknowns’ and ‘unknown unknowns’ came in response to a reporter’s question on the intelligence supporting assertions of linkages between the Iraqi government and terror- ist organisations.29 The implication of his remark was that presumption of a genuine Iraqi–terrorist linkage was justified because the absence of evidence to support the presumption did not conclusively disprove it. Here, as with the post-war planning assumptions, uncertainty served to level the playing field between facts and analysis, on the one hand, and the preconceptions of senior leadership on the other. Many of the US government’s experts on Iraq and the Arab world outside the intelligence community were also marginalised in the planning for the Iraq War. In 2002, the State Department launched the ‘Future of Iraq Project’ to write a detailed plan for the governance of a post-Saddam democratic Iraq. Participants included dozens of career Middle East specialists from the State Department and the intelligence community, as well as native Iraqis. The project’s report covered a wide variety of topics, from development of a constitution to the management of municipal utilities. In the end, however, leaders in the White House and the Pentagon viewed the report as too pessimistic and ignored many of its conclusions.30 Another well-publicised instance where decision-makers rejected expert advice on weak grounds was the public exchange between Pentagon civilian leaders and the Army chief of staff regarding the number of ground troops required for successful post-hostilities operations in Iraq. One month prior to the invasion, General Eric Shinseki told the Senate Armed Services Committee that establishing security and conditions for political stability in Iraq follow-ing the end of major combat operations would take ‘several hundred thousand’ coalition ground troops. His estimate was based on the application of troop-to-population ratios from previous security and stabilisation operations.31 While fairly rudimentary, the thrust of this analysis was shared by a variety of expert analysts outside the government.32 Two days after Shinseki’s testimony, both Rumsfeld and Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz publicly renounced the estimate. Wolfowitz told the House Budget Committee that Shinseki was ‘wildly off the mark’, and offered several unsubstantiated and, in retrospect, incorrect predic-tions about post-war attitudes toward American forces among Iraqis and US allies. Having made these predictions, he then proceded to reject the validity of making predictions, insisting that the ‘most fundamental point is that we simply cannot predict ... we have no idea what we will need unless and until we get there on the ground’.33 In effect, by denying the validity of prediction, Wolfowitz locked himself into a very specific but implicit prediction that conformed to his own preconceptions. The point is neither that Army generals are always better qualified to make such judgements than civilians, nor that hindsight shows Shinseki’s judgement to be better than Wolfowitz’s. It is that the grounds for the decision that was actu- ally made on troop levels were conspicuously shakier than those of Shinseki’s judgement, and yet they prevailed. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The mistakes</span>** that were **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">made in the Bush administration</span>**’s post-war planning for Iraq **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">are</span>** entirely **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">consistent with a bias</span>** in decision-making **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">against the authority of expertise in predicting the future, and</span>** the invocation of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">uncertainty</span>** in this instance **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">became a rationale for rigidity</span>** in planning rather than flexibility. 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">That internal link turns your offense </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Chernoff 5—</span>**IR prof, Colgate. PhD from Yale. (Fred, The Power of International Theory, Ed. Barry Buzan and Richard Little, 9, AMiles)

Various IR theorists have also argued against prediction. For example, Donald Puchala contends that IR theory ‘does not, because it cannot in the absence of laws … invite us to deduce, and it does not permit us to predict’ (Puchala 1991: 79). Interpretivist and reflectivist IR theorists like Ashley (1986), Onuf (1989), Walker (1993) and others, following the lead of critical theorists and predictionsceptic philosophers of social science, argue that IR theory (discussed in Chapter 3) is able to facilitate an interpretive understanding of events and deny that IR theory is capable of prediction or scientific-style explanation. Even though many of these authors hope that IR theory can lead to ‘human emancipation’, their meta-theory undercuts its ability to do so. This trend in the theoretical literature in IR **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">severs the link between</span>** IR **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">theory and</span>** any significant ability to aid **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">policy-makers</span>** to bring about emancipation or any other foreign policy goal. If they do not leave room for rationally grounded expectations about the future, that is, scientific-style prediction, then it will be impossible to formulate policies that can be expected to achieve various aims, including the emancipation of oppressed groups. Without the ability to say that a given action option has a higher probability than any of the other options of achieving the objective, e.g., a greater degree of emancipation of the target group, these theorists cannot recommend courses of action to achieve their desired goals. The loss of this essential capability has been largely overlooked by constructivists and reflectivists in the IR literature. All policy decisions are attempts to influence or bring about some future state of affairs. Policy-making requires some beliefs about the future, whether they are called ‘expectations’, ‘predictions’, ‘forecasts’ or ‘prognostications’. The next step in the argument is to show how such beliefs can be justified. 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The terminal impact is extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Kurasawa 4</span>** (Professor of Sociology, York University of Toronto, Fuyuki, Constellations Volume 11, No 4, 2004). </span>

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; text-autospace: none;">A radically postmodern line of thinking, for instance, would lead us to believe that it is pointless, perhaps even harmful, to strive for farsightedness in light of the aforementioned crisis of conventional paradigms of historical analysis. If, contra teleological models, history has no intrinsic meaning, direction, or endpoint to be discovered through human reason, and if, contra scientistic futurism, prospective trends cannot be predicted without error, then the abyss of chronological inscrutability supposedly opens up at our feet. The future appears to be unknowable, an outcome of chance. Therefore, rather than embarking upon grandiose speculation about what may occur, we should adopt a pragmatism that abandons itself to the twists and turns of history; let us be content to formulate ad hoc responses to emergencies as they arise. While this argument has the merit of underscoring the fallibilistic nature of all predictive schemes, it conflates the necessary recognition of the contingency of history with unwarranted assertions about the latter’s total opacity and indeterminacy. Acknowledging the fact that the future cannot be known with absolute certainty does not imply abandoning the task of trying to understand what is brewing on the horizon and to prepare for crises already coming into their own. In fact, the incorporation of the principle of fallibility into the work of prevention means that we must be ever more vigilant for warning signs of disaster and for responses that provoke unintended or unexpected consequences (a point to which I will return in the final section of this paper). In addition, from a normative point of view, the acceptance of historical contingency and of the self-limiting character of farsightedness places the duty of preventing catastrophe squarely on the shoulders of present generations. The future no longer appears to be a metaphysical creature of destiny or of the cunning of reason, nor can it be sloughed off to pure randomness. It becomes, instead, a result of human action shaped by decisions in the present – including, of course, trying to anticipate and prepare for possible and avoidable sources of harm to our successors. Combining a sense of analytical contingency toward the future and ethical responsibility for it, the idea of early warning is making its way into preventive action on the global stage. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The burden of proof is on them – they have to win specific take outs to the DA </span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Fitzsimmons 7</span>** (Michael, “The Problem of Uncertainty in Strategic Planning”, Survival, Winter 06/07) 

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">In defence of prediction Uncertainty is not a new phenomenon for strategists. Clausewitz knew that ‘many intelligence reports in war are contradictory; even more are false, and most are uncertain’. In coping with uncertainty, he believed that ‘what one can reasonably ask of an officer is that he should possess a standard of judgment, which he can gain only from knowledge of men and affairs and from common sense. He should be guided by the laws of probability.’34 Granted, one can certainly allow for epistemological debates about the best ways of gaining ‘a standard of judgment’ from ‘knowledge of men and affairs and from common sense’. Scientific inquiry into the ‘laws of probability’ for any given strate- gic question may not always be possible or appropriate. Certainly, analysis cannot and should not be presumed to trump the intuition of decision-makers. Nevertheless, Clausewitz’s implication seems to be that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the burden of proof</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">in</span>** any **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">debates</span>** about planning **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">should belong to the decision-maker who rejects</span>** formal analysis, standards of evidence and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">probabilistic reasoning</span>**. Ultimately, though, the value of prediction in strategic planning does not rest primarily in getting the correct answer, or even in the more feasible objective of bounding the range of correct answers. Rather, prediction requires decision- makers to expose, not only to others but to themselves, the beliefs they hold regarding why a given event is likely or unlikely and why it would be impor- tant or unimportant. Richard Neustadt and Ernest May highlight this useful property of probabilistic reasoning in their renowned study of the use of history in decision-making, Thinking in Time. In discussing the importance of probing presumptions, they contend: The need is for tests prompting questions, for sharp, straightforward mechanisms the decision makers and their aides might readily recall and use to dig into their own and each others’ presumptions. And they need tests that get at basics somewhat by indirection, not by frontal inquiry: not ‘what is your inferred causation, General?’ Above all, not, ‘what are your values, Mr. Secretary?’ ... If someone says ‘a fair chance’ ... ask, ‘if you were a betting man or woman, what odds would you put on that?’ If others are present, ask the same of each, and of yourself, too. Then probe the differences: why? This is tantamount to seeking and then arguing assumptions underlying different numbers placed on a subjective probability assessment. We know of no better way to force clarification of meanings while exposing hidden differences ... Once differing odds have been quoted, the question ‘why?’ can follow any number of tracks. Argument may pit common sense against common sense or analogy against analogy. What is important is that the expert’s basis for linking ‘if’ with ‘then’ gets exposed to the hearing of other experts before the lay official has to say yes or no.’35 There are at least three critical and related benefits of prediction in strate- gic planning. The first reflects Neustadt and May’s point – prediction enforces a certain level of discipline in making explicit the assumptions, key variables and implied causal relationships that constitute decision-makers’ beliefs and that might otherwise remain implicit. Imagine, for example, if Shinseki and Wolfowitz had been made to assign probabilities to their opposing expectations regarding post-war Iraq. Not only would they have had to work harder to justify their views, they might have seen more clearly the substantial chance that they were wrong and had to make greater efforts in their planning to prepare for that contingency. Secondly, the very process of making the relevant factors of a deci- sion explicit provides a firm, or at least transparent, basis for making choices. Alternative courses of action can be compared and assessed in like terms. Third, the transparency and discipline of the process of arriving at the initial strategy should heighten the decision-maker’s sensitivity toward changes in the envi- ronment that would suggest the need for adjustments to that strategy. In this way, prediction enhances rather than under-mines strategic flexibility. This defence of prediction does not imply that great stakes should be gambled on narrow, singular predictions of the future. On the contrary, the central problem of uncertainty in plan- ning remains that any given prediction may simply be wrong. Preparations for those eventualities must be made. Indeed, in many cases, relatively unlikely outcomes could be enormously consequential, and therefore merit extensive preparation and investment. In order to navigate this complexity, strategists must return to the dis- tinction between uncertainty and risk. While the complexity of the international security environment may make it somewhat resistant to the type of probabilis-tic thinking associated with risk, a risk-oriented approach seems to be the only viable model for national-security strategic planning. The alternative approach, which categorically denies prediction, precludes strategy. As Betts argues, Any assumption that some knowledge, whether intuitive or explicitly formalized, provides guidance about what should be done is a presumption that there is reason to believe the choice will produce a satisfactory outcome – that is, it is a prediction, however rough it may be. If there is no hope of discerning and manipulating causes to produce intended effects, analysts as well as politicians and generals should all quit and go fishing.36 Unless they are willing to quit and go fishing, then, strategists must sharpen their tools of risk assessment. Risk assessment comes in many varieties, but identification of two key parameters is common to all of them: the consequences of a harmful event or condition; and the likelihood of that harmful event or condition occurring. With no perspective on likelihood, a strategist can have no firm perspective on risk. With no firm perspective on risk, strategists cannot purposefully discriminate among alternative choices. Without purposeful choice, there is no strategy. One of the most widely read books in recent years on the complicated relation- ship between strategy and uncertainty is Peter Schwartz’s work on scenario-based planning, The Art of the Long View. Schwartz warns against the hazards faced by leaders who have deterministic habits of mind, or who deny the difficult implications of uncertainty for strategic planning. To overcome such tenden- cies, he advocates the use of alternative future scenarios for the purposes of examining alternative strategies. His view of scenarios is that their goal is not to predict the future, but to sensitise leaders to the highly contingent nature of their decision-making.37 This philosophy has taken root in the strategic-planning processes in the Pentagon and other parts of the US government, and properly so. Examination of alternative futures and the potential effects of surprise on current plans is essential. Appreciation of uncertainty also has a number of organisational impli- cations, many of which the national-security establishment is trying to take to heart, such as encouraging multidisciplinary study and training, enhancing information sharing, rewarding innovation, and placing a premium on speed and versatility. The arguments advanced here seek to take nothing away from these imperatives of planning and operating in an uncertain environment. But appreciation of uncertainty carries hazards of its own. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Questioning assumptions is critical, but assumptions must be made in the end</span>**. Clausewitz’s ‘standard of judgment’ for discriminating among alternatives must be applied. Creative, unbounded speculation must resolve to choice or else there will be no strategy. Recent history suggests that unchecked scepticism regarding the validity of prediction can marginalise analysis, trade significant cost for ambig- uous benefit, empower parochial interests in decision-making, and undermine flexibility. Accordingly, having fully recognised the need to broaden their strategic-planning aperture, national-security policymakers would do well now to reinvigorate their efforts in the messy but indispensable business of predicting the future. </span>


==<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Util</span></span>== 


==<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">1NC Util </span>== 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equality </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Cummiskey 90</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy, Bates (David, Kantian Consequentialism, Ethics 100.3, p 601-2, p 606, jstor, AG) </span>

We must not obscure the issue by characterizing this type of case as the sacrifice of individuals for some abstract "social entity." It is not a question of some persons having to bear the cost for some elusive "overall social good." Instead, the question is whether some persons must bear the inescapable cost for the sake of other persons. Nozick, for example, argues that "to use a person in this way does not sufficiently respect and take account of the fact that he is a separate person, that his is the only life he has."30 Why, however, is this not equally true of all those that we do not save through our failure to act? By emphasizing solely the one who must bear the cost if we act, one fails to sufficiently respect and take account of the many other separate persons, each with only one life, who will bear the cost of our inaction. In such a situation, what would a conscientious Kantian agent, an agent motivated by the unconditional value of rational beings, choose? We have a duty to promote the conditions necessary for the existence of rational beings, but both choosing to act and choosing not to act will cost the life of a rational being. Since the basis of Kant's principle is "rational nature exists as an end-in-itself' (GMM, p. 429), the reasonable solution to such a dilemma involves promoting, insofar as one can, the conditions necessary for rational beings. If I sacrifice some for the sake of other rational beings, I do not use them arbitrarily and I do not deny the unconditional value of rational beings. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Persons</span>** may **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">have "dignity</span>**, an unconditional and incomparable value" that transcends any market value (GMM, p. 436), **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">but</span>**, as rational beings, persons **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">also</span>** have **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">a fundamental equality which dictates that some must</span>** sometimes **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">give way for the sake of others.</span>** The formula of the end-in-itself thus does not support the view that we may never force another to bear some cost in order to benefit others. If one focuses on the equal value of all rational beings, then equal consideration dictates that one sacrifice some to save many. [continues] According to Kant, the objective end of moral action is the existence of rational beings. Respect for rational beings requires that, in deciding what to do, one give appropriate practical consideration to the unconditional value of rational beings and to the conditional value of happiness. Since agent-centered constraints require a non-value-based rationale, the most natural interpretation of the demand that one give equal respect to all rational beings lead to a consequentialist normative theory. We have seen that there is no sound Kantian reason for abandoning this natural consequentialist interpretation. In particular, a consequentialist interpretation does not require sacrifices which a Kantian ought to consider unreasonable, and it does not involve doing evil so that good may come of it. It simply requires an uncompromising commitment to the equal value and equal claims of all rational beings and a recognition that, in the moral consideration of conduct, one's own subjective concerns do not have overriding importance.

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ethical policymaking requires calculation of consequences </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Gvosdev 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> – Rhodes scholar, PhD from St. Antony’s College, executive editor of The National Interest (Nikolas, The Value(s) of Realism, <span style="mso-bidi-font-style: italic;">SAIS Review</span> 25.1, pmuse, AG)</span>

As the name implies, realists focus on promoting policies that are achievable and sustainable. In turn, the morality of a foreign policy action is judged by its results, not by the intentions of its framers. A foreign policymaker must weigh the consequences of any course of action and assess the resources at hand to carry out the proposed task. As Lippmann warned, Without the controlling principle that the nation must maintain its objectives and its power in equilibrium, its purposes within its means and its means equal to its purposes, its commitments related to its resources and its resources adequate to its commitments, it is impossible to think at all about foreign affairs.8 Commenting on this maxim, Owen Harries, founding editor of The National Interest, noted, "This is a truth of which Americans—more apt to focus on ends rather than means when it comes to dealing with the rest of the world—need always to be reminded."9 In fact, Morgenthau noted that "there can be no political morality without prudence."10 This virtue of prudence—which Morgenthau identified as the cornerstone of realism—should not be confused with expediency. Rather, it takes as its starting point that it is more moral to fulfill one's commitments than to make "empty" promises, and to seek solutions that minimize harm and produce sustainable results. Morgenthau concluded: [End Page 18] Political realism does not require, nor does it condone, indifference to political ideals and moral principles, but it requires indeed a sharp distinction between the desirable and the possible, between what is desirable everywhere and at all times and what is possible under the concrete circumstances of time and place.11 This is why, prior to the outbreak of fighting in the former Yugoslavia, U.S. and European realists urged that Bosnia be decentralized and partitioned into ethnically based cantons as a way to head off a destructive civil war. Realists felt this would be the best course of action, especially after the country's first free and fair elections had brought nationalist candidates to power at the expense of those calling for inter-ethnic cooperation. They had concluded—correctly, as it turned out—that the United States and Western Europe would be unwilling to invest the blood and treasure that would be required to craft a unitary Bosnian state and give it the wherewithal to function. Indeed, at a diplomatic conference in Lisbon in March 1992, the various factions in Bosnia had, reluctantly, endorsed the broad outlines of such a settlement. For the purveyors of moralpolitik, this was unacceptable. After all, for this plan to work, populations on the "wrong side" of the line would have to be transferred and resettled. Such a plan struck directly at the heart of the concept of multi-ethnicity—that different ethnic and religious groups could find a common political identity and work in common institutions. When the United States signaled it would not accept such a settlement, the fragile consensus collapsed. The United States, of course, cannot be held responsible for the war; this lies squarely on the shoulders of Bosnia's political leaders. Yet Washington fell victim to what Jonathan Clarke called "faux Wilsonianism," the belief that "high-flown words matter more than rational calculation" in formulating effective policy, which led U.S. policymakers to dispense with the equation of "balancing commitments and resources."12 Indeed, as he notes, the Clinton administration had criticized peace plans calling for decentralized partition in Bosnia "with lofty rhetoric without proposing a practical alternative." The subsequent war led to the deaths of tens of thousands and left more than a million people homeless. After three years of war, the Dayton Accords—hailed as a triumph of American diplomacy—created a complicated arrangement by which the federal union of two ethnic units, the Muslim-Croat Federation, was itself federated to a Bosnian Serb republic. Today, Bosnia requires thousands of foreign troops to patrol its internal borders and billions of dollars in foreign aid to keep its government and economy functioning. Was the aim of U.S. policymakers, academics and journalists—creating a multi-ethnic democracy in Bosnia—not worth pursuing? No, not at all, and this is not what the argument suggests. But aspirations were not matched with capabilities. As a result of holding out for the "most moral" outcome and encouraging the Muslim-led government in Sarajevo to pursue maximalist aims rather than finding a workable compromise that could have avoided bloodshed and produced more stable conditions, the peoples of Bosnia suffered greatly. In the end, the final settlement was very close [End Page 19] to the one that realists had initially proposed—and the one that had also been roundly condemned on moral grounds. [[#_Toc105294165]]


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Moral tunnel vision is complicit with evil </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Issac 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">—Professor of Political Science at Indiana-Bloomington, Director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life, PhD from Yale (Jeffery C., Dissent Magazine, Vol. 49, Iss. 2, “Ends, Means, and Politics,” p. Proquest) </span>

As a result, the most important political questions are simply not asked. <span class="CardtextChar">It is assumed that U.S. military intervention is an act of "aggression," but no consideration is given to the aggression to which intervention is a response</span>. <span class="CardtextChar">The status quo ante in Afghanistan is not, as peace activists would have it, peace, but rather terrorist violence abetted by a regime--the Taliban--that rose to power through brutality and repression</span>. This requires us to ask a question that most "peace" activists would prefer not to ask: <span class="CardtextChar">What should be done to respond to the violence of a Saddam Hussein, or a Milosevic, or a Taliban regime?</span> What means are likely to stop violence and bring criminals to justice? <span class="CardtextChar">Calls for diplomacy and international law are well intended and important; they implicate a decent and civilized ethic of global order. But they are also vague and empty, because they are not accompanied by any account of how diplomacy or international law can work effectively to address the problem at hand</span>. The campus left offers no such account. <span class="CardtextChar">To do so would require it to contemplate tragic choices in which moral goodness is of limited utility.</span> Here what matters is not purity of intention but the intelligent exercise of power. Power is not a dirty word or an unfortunate feature of the world. It is the core of politics. Power is the ability to effect outcomes in the world. <span class="CardtextChar">Politics, in large part, involves contests over the distribution and use of power. To accomplish anything in the political world, one must attend to the means that are necessary to bring it about</span>. And to develop such means is to develop, and to exercise, power. <span class="CardtextChar">To say this is not to say that power is beyond morality. It is to say that power is not reducible to morality</span>. As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah Arendt have taught, <span class="CardtextChar">an unyielding concern with moral goodness **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">undercuts political responsibility</span>**</span>. The concern may be morally laudable, reflecting a kind of personal integrity, but it suffers from three fatal flaws: (1) It fails to see that the purity of one's intention does not ensure the achievement of what one intends. <span class="CardtextChar">Abjuring violence or refusing to make common cause with morally compromised parties may seem like the right thing; but if such tactics entail impotence, then it is hard to view them as serving any moral good beyond the clean conscience of their supporters;</span> (2) <span class="CardtextChar">it fails to see that in a world of real violence and injustice, moral purity is not simply a form of powerlessness; it is often a form of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">complicity in injustice</span>**</span>. This is why, <span class="CardtextChar">from the standpoint of politics--as opposed to religion--pacifism is always a potentially immoral stand. In categorically repudiating violence, it refuses in principle to oppose certain violent injustices with any effect; and</span> (3) <span class="CardtextChar">it fails to see that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">politics is as much about unintended consequences as it is about intentions</span>**; it is the effects of action, rather than the motives of action, that is most significant</span>. Just as the alignment with "good" may engender impotence, it is often the pursuit of "good" that generates evil. This is the lesson of communism in the twentieth century: it is not enough that one's goals be sincere or idealistic; <span class="CardtextChar">it is equally important, always, to ask about the effects of pursuing these goals and to judge these effects in pragmatic and historically contextualized ways. Moral absolutism inhibits this judgment. It alienates those who are not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ethics can’t guide public policy </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Posner 99</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;"> – highly influential legal theorist; Chicago Law School professor </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 6.0pt;">(Richard, The Problematics of Moral and Legal Theory, p vii-x, AG)</span>

The book is in two parts, each containing two chapters. The first part is primarily critical, the second primarily constructive. Chapter 1 tackles normative moral theory on its own terms, arguing that people who make philosophical arguments for why we should alter our moral beliefs or behavior are wasting their time if what they want to do is to alter those beliefs and the behavior the beliefs might influence. Moral intuitions neither do nor should yield to the weak arguments that are all that philosophers can bring to bear on moral issues. I call this position "pragmatic moral skepticism." It must not be confused with philosophically more radical isms. I am not a moral nihilist, nor an epistemological skeptic or relativist, but merely a limited skeptic, as an example will show. That the Nazis killed millions of defenseless civilians is a fact; its truth is independent of what anyone believes. That the Nazis' actions were morally wrong is a value judgment: it depends on beliefs that cannot be proved true or false. I thus reject moral realism, at least in its strong sense as the doctrine that there are universal moral laws ontologically akin to scientific laws. I am a kind of moral relativist. But my metaethical views are not essential to pragmatic moral skepticism, the doctrine that moral theory is useless, although they help to explain why it is useless. The doctrine is supported by bodies of thought as various as the psychology of action, the character of academic professions in general and of the profession of academic philosophy in particular, and the undesirability of moral uniformity; and above all by the fact that the casuistic and deliberative techniques that moral theorists deploy are too feeble, both epistemologically and rhetorically, to shake moral intuitions. The analogy (of a pregnant woman forced to carry her fetus to term to a person forcibly attached by tubes to a famous violinist for nine months in order to save the violinist from dying of kidney disease) with which Judith Jarvis Thomson defends a right of abortion, and at the other end of the spectrum of abstraction the elaborate contractarian and natural-law arguments that John Rawls, Ronald Dworkin, John Finnis, and others make on behalf of their preferred resolutions of issues in applied ethics, are convincing only to readers predisposed to agree with the philosophers' conclusions. The class of innovators whom I call "moral entrepreneurs" do have the power to change our moral intuitions. But moral entrepreneurs are not the same as academic moralists, such as Thomson and the others I have named. Moral entrepreneurs persuade, but not with rational arguments. Academic moralists use rational arguments; but in part because of the sheer feebleness of such arguments, they do not persuade. Chapter 2 carries the discussion explicitly into the realm of law. I examine issues in jurisprudence, constitutional law, and (to a limited extent) common law and statutory law. I try to show with reference both to individual theorists—Dworkin again, Jurgen Habermas, and others—and to particular cases that moral theory, and such cousins of it as jurisprudence and constitutional theory, are useless in the resolution of concrete legal issues. This is true even when those issues concern such morally charged subjects as abortion, affirmative action, racial and sexual discrimination, and homosexual rights. Consider the constitutionality of laws forbidding physician-assisted suicide, the issue that impelled a group of distinguished moral philosophers led by Dworkin to submit an amicus curiae brief in the Supreme Court that the Court ignored in its decisions upholding those laws. Judges are properly wary about using moral or constitutional theory to decide cases. At the same time, as I illustrate with the Supreme Court's decisions invalidating sex segregation in military academies and a state constitutional provision forbidding local governments to prohibit discrimination against homosexuals, judges are insensitive to the limitations of their own knowledge of the social realities out of which cases arise. They are right to distrust theory that academics press upon them, but they have as yet nothing to put in its place—unless it is an attitude of caution. That is the right attitude in the circumstances. Until judges acquire a better knowledge base, the limitations of moral and constitutional theory provide a compelling argument for judicial self-restraint, although to accept it would be to renounce the dream of many constitutional theorists that the Supreme Court might make over American society in the name of the Constitution but in the reality of radical egalitarianism, Catholic natural law, laissez-Faire economics, or reactionary populism, depending on the theorist. Constitutional scholars would be more helpful to the courts and to society as a whole if they examined constitutional cases and doctrines in relation not to what passes as theory in jurisprudential circles but rather to the social context of constitutional issues, their causes, their costs, and their consequences. This is a neglected perspective, which I illustrate in Chapter 2 by reference to the "real world" effects of constitutional criminal procedure. 


==1NC Util—Nuclear Absolutism== 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Nuclear war causes extinction—it should come first </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Sandberg 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">—Research Fellow at the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University. PhD in computation neuroscience, Stockholm—AND—Jason G. Matheny—PhD candidate in Health Policy and Management at Johns Hopkins. special consultant to the Center for Biosecurity at the University of Pittsburgh—AND—Milan M. Ćirković—senior research associate at the Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade. Assistant professor of physics at the University of Novi Sad. (Anders, How can we reduce the risk of human extinction?, 9 September 2008, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/how-can-we-reduce-the-risk-of-human-extinction, AMiles) </span>

The risks from anthropogenic hazards appear at present larger than those from natural ones. Although great progress has been made in reducing the number of nuclear weapons in the world, humanity is still threatened by the possibility of a global thermonuclear war and a resulting nuclear winter. We may face even greater risks from emerging technologies. Advances in synthetic biology might make it possible to engineer pathogens capable of extinction-level pandemics. The knowledge, equipment, and materials needed to engineer pathogens are more accessible than those needed to build nuclear weapons. And unlike other weapons, pathogens are self-replicating, allowing a small arsenal to become exponentially destructive. Pathogens have been implicated in the extinctions of many wild species. Although most pandemics "fade out" by reducing the density of susceptible populations, pathogens with wide host ranges in multiple species can reach even isolated individuals. The intentional or unintentional release of engineered pathogens with high transmissibility, latency, and lethality might be capable of causing human extinction. While such an event seems unlikely today, the likelihood may increase as biotechnologies continue to improve at a rate rivaling Moore's Law. Farther out in time are technologies that remain theoretical but might be developed this century. Molecular nanotechnology could allow the creation of self-replicating machines capable of destroying the ecosystem. And advances in neuroscience and computation might enable improvements in cognition that accelerate the invention of new weapons. A survey at the Oxford conference found that concerns about human extinction were dominated by fears that new technologies would be misused. These emerging threats are especially challenging as they could become dangerous more quickly than past technologies, outpacing society's ability to control them. As H.G. Wells noted, "Human history becomes more and more a race between education and catastrophe." Such remote risks may seem academic in a world plagued by immediate problems, such as global poverty, HIV, and climate change. But as intimidating as these problems are, they do not threaten human existence. In discussing the risk of nuclear winter, Carl Sagan emphasized the astronomical toll of human extinction: A nuclear war imperils all of our descendants, for as long as there will be humans. Even if the population remains static, with an average lifetime of the order of 100 years, over a typical time period for the biological evolution of a successful species (roughly ten million years), we are talking about some 500 trillion people yet to come. By this criterion, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the stakes are one million times greater for extinction</span>** than for the more modest nuclear wars that kill "only" hundreds of millions of people. There are many other possible measures of the potential loss--including culture and science, the evolutionary history of the planet, and the significance of the lives of all of our ancestors who contributed to the future of their descendants. Extinction is the undoing of the human enterprise. There is a discontinuity between risks that threaten 10 percent or even 99 percent of humanity and those that threaten 100 percent. For disasters killing less than all humanity, there is a good chance that the species could recover. If we value future human generations, then reducing extinction risks should dominate our considerations. Fortunately, most measures to reduce these risks also improve global security against a range of lesser catastrophes, and thus deserve support regardless of how much one worries about extinction. These measures include: Removing nuclear weapons from hair-trigger alert and further reducing their numbers; Placing safeguards on gene synthesis equipment to prevent synthesis of select pathogens; Improving our ability to respond to infectious diseases, including rapid disease surveillance, diagnosis, and control, as well as accelerated drug development; Funding research on asteroid detection and deflection, "hot spot" eruptions, methane hydrate deposits, and other catastrophic natural hazards; Monitoring developments in key disruptive technologies, such as nanotechnology and computational neuroscience, and developing international policies to reduce the risk of catastrophic accidents. Other measures to reduce extinction risks may have less in common with strategies to improve global security, generally. Since a species' survivability is closely related to the extent of its range, perhaps the most effective means of reducing the risk of human extinction is to colonize space sooner, rather than later. Citing, in particular, the threat of new biological weapons, Stephen Hawking has said, "I don't think the human race will survive the next thousand years, unless we spread into space. There are too many accidents that can befall life on a single planet." Similarly, NASA Administrator Michael Griffin has noted, "The history of life on Earth is the history of extinction events, and human expansion into the Solar System is, in the end, fundamentally about the survival of the species." 


==2NC Util== 

<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Biology proves—utilitarian focus on survival is the only accurate framework </span>**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">NYT 7</span>** <span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 6.0pt;">(3/20, Scientist Finds the Beginnings of Morality in Primate Behavior, http://select.nytimes.com/gst/abstract.html?res=F20611FE3C540C738EDDAA0894DF404482, AG) </span></span>

Some animals are surprisingly sensitive to the plight of others. Chimpanzees, who cannot swim, have drowned in zoo moats trying to save others. Given the chance to get food by pulling a chain that would also deliver an electric shock to a companion, rhesus monkeys will starve themselves for several days. Biologists argue that these and other social behaviors are the precursors of human morality. They further believe that if morality grew out of behavioral rules shaped by evolution, it is for biologists, not philosophers or theologians, to say what these rules are. Moral philosophers do not take very seriously the biologists’ bid to annex their subject, but they find much of interest in what the biologists say and have started an academic conversation with them. The original call to battle was sounded by the biologist Edward O. Wilson more than 30 years ago, when he suggested in his 1975 book “Sociobiology” that “the time has come for ethics to be removed temporarily from the hands of the philosophers and biologicized.” He may have jumped the gun about the time having come, but in the intervening decades biologists have made considerable progress. Last year Marc Hauser, an evolutionary biologist at Harvard, proposed in his book “Moral Minds” that the brain has a genetically shaped mechanism for acquiring moral rules, a universal moral grammar similar to the neural machinery for learning language. In another recent book, “Primates and Philosophers,” the primatologist Frans de Waal defends against philosopher critics his view that the roots of morality can be seen in the social behavior of monkeys and apes. Dr. de Waal, who is director of the Living Links Center at Emory University, argues that all social animals have had to constrain or alter their behavior in various ways for group living to be worthwhile. These constraints, evident in monkeys and even more so in chimpanzees, are part of human inheritance, too, and in his view form the set of behaviors from which human morality has been shaped. Many philosophers find it hard to think of animals as moral beings, and indeed Dr. de Waal does not contend that even chimpanzees possess morality. But he argues that human morality would be impossible without certain emotional building blocks that are clearly at work in chimp and monkey societies. Dr. de Waal’s views are based on years of observing nonhuman primates, starting with work on aggression in the 1960s. He noticed then that after fights between two combatants, other chimpanzees would console the loser. But he was waylaid in battles with psychologists over imputing emotional states to animals, and it took him 20 years to come back to the subject. He found that consolation was universal among the great apes but generally absent from monkeys — among macaques, mothers will not even reassure an injured infant. To console another, Dr. de Waal argues, requires empathy and a level of self-awareness that only apes and humans seem to possess. And consideration of empathy quickly led him to explore the conditions for morality. Though human morality may end in notions of rights and justice and fine ethical distinctions, it begins, Dr. de Waal says, in concern for others and the understanding of social rules as to how they should be treated. At this lower level, primatologists have shown, there is what they consider to be a sizable overlap between the behavior of people and other social primates. Social living requires empathy, which is especially evident in chimpanzees, as well as ways of bringing internal hostilities to an end. Every species of ape and monkey has its own protocol for reconciliation after fights, Dr. de Waal has found. If two males fail to make up, female chimpanzees will often bring the rivals together, as if sensing that discord makes their community worse off and more vulnerable to attack by neighbors. Or they will head off a fight by taking stones out of the males’ hands. Dr. de Waal believes that these actions are undertaken for the greater good of the community, as distinct from person-to-person relationships, and are a significant precursor of morality in human societies. [Continues] “Morality is as firmly grounded in neurobiology as anything else we do or are,” Dr. de Waal wrote in his 1996 book “Good Natured.” Biologists ignored this possibility for many years, believing that because natural selection was cruel and pitiless it could only produce people with the same qualities. But this is a fallacy, in Dr. de Waal’s view. Natural selection favors organisms that survive and reproduce, by whatever means. And it has provided people, he writes in “Primates and Philosophers,” with “a compass for life’s choices 



==2NC Util—Nuclear Absolutism== 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Extinction first </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Bostrom 7</span>** – Oxford philosophy professor (Nick, April, Humanity's biggest problems aren't what you think they are, transcribed from video 5:22 to 5:52, http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/view/id/44, AG)

Then, even a one-percentage-point reduction in the extinction risk could be equivalent to this astronomical number, ten to the power of thirty two. So if you take into account future generations as much as our own, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">every other moral imperative</span>** or philanthropic cause just **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">becomes irrelevant.</span>** The only thing you should focus on would be to reduce existential risk, because even a tiniest decrease in existential risk would just overwhelm any other, um, benefit you could hope to achieve. 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Moral norms don’t apply in the context of nuclear war </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Bostrom 2</span>** – Oxford Philosophy Professor and director of the Future of Humanity Institute (Nick, Existential Risks, http://www.jetpress.org/volume9/risks.html, AG)

It’s dangerous to be alive and risks are everywhere. Luckily, not all risks are equally serious. For present purposes we can use three dimensions to describe the magnitude of a risk: scope, intensity, and probability. By “scope” I mean the size of the group of people that are at risk. By “intensity” I mean how badly each individual in the group would be affected. And by “probability” I mean the best current subjective estimate of the probability of the adverse outcome.[1] 1.1 A typology of risk We can distinguish six qualitatively distinct types of risks based on their scope and intensity (figure 1). The third dimension, probability, can be superimposed on the two dimensions plotted in the figure. Other things equal, a risk is more serious if it has a substantial probability and if our actions can make that probability significantly greater or smaller. “Personal”, “local”, or “global” refer to the size of the population that is directly affected; a global risk is one that affects the whole of humankind (and our successors). “Endurable” vs. “terminal” indicates how intensely the target population would be affected. An endurable risk may cause great destruction, but one can either recover from the damage or find ways of coping with the fallout. In contrast, a terminal risk is one where the targets are either annihilated or irreversibly crippled in ways that radically reduce their potential to live the sort of life they aspire to. In the case of personal risks, for instance, a terminal outcome could for example be death, permanent severe brain injury, or a lifetime prison sentence. An example of a local terminal risk would be genocide leading to the annihilation of a people (this happened to several Indian nations). Permanent enslavement is another example. 1.2 Existential risks In this paper we shall discuss risks of the sixth category, the one marked with an X. This is the category of global, terminal risks. I shall call these existential risks. Existential risks are distinct from global endurable risks. Examples of the latter kind include: threats to the biodiversity of Earth’s ecosphere, moderate global warming, global economic recessions (even major ones), and possibly stifling cultural or religious eras such as the “dark ages”, even if they encompass the whole global community, provided they are transitory (though see the section on “Shrieks” below). To say that a particular global risk is endurable is evidently not to say that it is acceptable or not very serious. A world war fought with conventional weapons or a Nazi-style Reich lasting for a decade would be extremely horrible events even though they would fall under the rubric of endurable global risks since humanity could eventually recover. (On the other hand, they could be a local terminal risk for many individuals and for persecuted ethnic groups.) I shall use the following definition of existential risks: Existential risk – One where an adverse outcome would either annihilate Earth-originating intelligent life or permanently and drastically curtail its potential. An existential risk is one where humankind as a whole is imperiled. Existential disasters have major adverse consequences for the course of human civilization for all time to come. 2 The unique challenge of existential risks Risks in this sixth category are a recent phenomenon. This is part of the reason why it is useful to distinguish them from other risks. We have not evolved mechanisms, either biologically or culturally, for managing such risks. Our intuitions and coping strategies have been shaped by our long experience with risks such as dangerous animals, hostile individuals or tribes, poisonous foods, automobile accidents, Chernobyl, Bhopal, volcano eruptions, earthquakes, draughts, World War I, World War II, epidemics of influenza, smallpox, black plague, and AIDS. These types of disasters have occurred many times and our cultural attitudes towards risk have been shaped by trial-and-error in managing such hazards. But tragic as such events are to the people immediately affected, in the big picture of things – from the perspective of humankind as a whole – even the worst of these catastrophes are mere ripples on the surface of the great sea of life. They haven’t significantly affected the total amount of human suffering or happiness or determined the long-term fate of our species. With the exception of a species-destroying comet or asteroid impact (an extremely rare occurrence), there were probably no significant existential risks in human history until the mid-twentieth century, and certainly none that it was within our power to do something about. The first manmade existential risk was the inaugural detonation of an atomic bomb. At the time, there was some concern that the explosion might start a runaway chain-reaction by “igniting” the atmosphere. Although we now know that such an outcome was physically impossible, it qualifies as an existential risk that was present at the time. For there to be a risk, given the knowledge and understanding available, it suffices that there is some subjective probability of an adverse outcome, even if it later turns out that objectively there was no chance of something bad happening. If we don’t know whether something is objectively risky or not, then it is risky in the subjective sense. The subjective sense is of course what we must base our decisions on.[2] At any given time we must use our best current subjective estimate of what the objective risk factors are.[3] A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization.[4] Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century. The special nature of the challenges posed by existential risks is illustrated by the following points: * Our approach to existential risks cannot be one of trial-and-error. There is no opportunity to learn from errors. The reactive approach – see what happens, limit damages, and learn from experience – is unworkable. Rather, we must take a proactive approach. This requires foresight to anticipate new types of threats and a willingness to take decisive preventive action and to bear the costs (moral and economic) of such actions. * We cannot necessarily rely on the institutions, moral norms, social attitudes or national security policies that developed from our experience with managing other sorts of risks**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">. Existential risks are a different kind of beast</span>**. We might find it hard to take them as seriously as we should simply because we have never yet witnessed such disasters.[5] Our collective fear-response is likely ill calibrated to the magnitude of threat. * Reductions in existential risks are global public goods [13] and may therefore be undersupplied by the market [14]. Existential risks are a menace for everybody and may require acting on the international plane. Respect for national sovereignty is not a legitimate excuse for failing to take countermeasures against a major existential risk. * If we take into account the welfare of future generations, the harm done by existential risks is multiplied by another factor, the size of which depends on whether and how much we discount future benefits [15,16]. In view of its undeniable importance, it is surprising how little systematic work has been done in this area. Part of the explanation may be that many of the gravest risks stem (as we shall see) from anticipated future technologies that we have only recently begun to understand. Another part of the explanation may be the unavoidably interdisciplinary and speculative nature of the subject. And in part the neglect may also be attributable to an aversion against thinking seriously about a depressing topic. The point, however, is not to wallow in gloom and doom but simply to take a sober look at what could go wrong so we can create responsible strategies for improving our chances of survival. In order to do that, we need to know where to focus our efforts.







=Impact Defense= 
==Biodiversity== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Precautionary principle is warrantless bad policy making**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Simon 95** (Julian, State of Humanity, p 358-9)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The argument that because we do not know how many species are being extinguished, we should therefore take steps to protect them, is logically indistinguishable from the argument that because we do not know at what rate the angels dancing on the head of a pin are dying off, we should undertake a vast program to preserve them. And it smacks of the condemnation to death of witches in Salem on the basis of “spectral evidence” by “afflicted” young girls, changes that the accused could not rebut with any conceivable material evidence. If something is unknowable at present but knowable in principle, then the appropriate thing is to find out. This does not necessarily mean finding out by direct observation only. A solid chain of empirical evidence can lead to a reasonable conclusion. But there must be some reasonable chain of evidence and reasoning. If something is unknowable in principle, at least with contemporary techniques, then there is no warrant for any public actions whatsoever. To assert otherwise is to open the door to public actions and expenditures on behalf of anyone who can generate an exciting and frightening hypothetical scenario.</span>



<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**Environment resilient—adaptation checks** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**Doremus, law prof, 2k** – Law Professor, California (Holly, 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11, AG) </span>

<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">Reluctant to concede such losses, tellers of the ecological horror story highlight how close a catastrophe might be, and how little we know about what actions might trigger one. But the apocalyptic vision is less credible today than it seemed in the 1970s. Nor is human extinction probable any time soon. Homo sapiens is adaptable to nearly any environment. Even if the world of the future includes far fewer species, it likely will hold people. n215 [*47] One response to this credibility problem tones the story down a bit, arguing not that humans will go extinct but that ecological disruption will bring economies, and consequently civilizations, to their knees. n216 But this too may be overstating the case. Most ecosystem functions are performed by multiple species. This functional redundancy means that a high proportion of species can be lost without precipitating a collapse. n217 </span>

<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**No impact to biodiversity** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">**Washington Post 97** (8/29, Three Studies Show Diversity Can't Guarantee Ecosystem Strength, http://www-tech.mit.edu/V117/N38/shorts2.38w.html, AG) </span>

<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">Ecologists have long maintained that diversity is one of nature's greatest strengths, but new research suggests that diversity alone does not guarantee strong ecosystems. In findings that could intensify the national debate over endangered species and habitat conservation, three new studies suggest a greater abundance of plant and animal varieties doesn't always translate to better ecological health. At least equally important, the research found, are the types of species and how they interact. Separate experiments in California, Minnesota and Sweden, found that diversity often had little bearing on the performance of ecosystems - at least as measured by the growth and health of native plants. In fact, the communities with the greatest biological richness were often the poorest in terms of productivity and nutrient cycling. One study compared plant life on 50 remote islands in northern Sweden that are prone to frequent wildfires from lightning strikes. Scientist David Wardle of Landcare Research in Lincoln, New Zealand, and colleagues at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences found that islands dominated by few species of plants recovered more quickly than nearby islands with more biological diversity. Similar findings were reported by University of Minnesota researchers who studied savannah grasses, and by Stanford's Vitousek and colleague David Hooper, who concluded that functional characteristics of plant species were more important than the number of varieties in determining how ecosystems performed. </span>


==<span style="tab-stops: .25in;"> Warming </span>== 
===<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">1NC </span>=== 



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">No warming </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Beisner 10</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">—former associate professor of interdisciplinary studies in economics, government, and public policy, Covenant. PhD, University of St. Andrews, (Calvin, Forget Global Warming Mini Ice Age May Be on Its Way, 12 January 2010, http://www.rightsidenews.com/201001128144/energy-and-environment/forget-global-warming-mini-ice-age-may-be-on-its-way.html, AMiles) </span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Note – graph omitted </span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">The UK's MailOnline did just that this week under the headline The mini ice age starts here. Lead paragraph? "The bitter winter afflicting much of the Northern Hemisphere is only the start of a global trend towards cooler weather that is likely to last for 20 or 30 years, say some of the world's most eminent climate scientists." Right. MailOnline reporter David Rose doesn't call them "the world's leading climate skeptics." He calls them "some of the world's most eminent climate scientists"--and he goes on to cite "Mojib Latif, a leading member of the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)," "Anastasios Tsonis, head of the University of Wisconsin Atmospheric Sciences Group," and "William Gray, emeritus Professor of Atmospheric Sciences at Colorado State University." Contrary to fears of inexorably diminishing Arctic sea ice, Rose cites the U.S. National Snow and Ice Data Center as reporting that "Arctic summer sea ice has increased by 409,000 square miles, or 26 per cent, since 2007." Though snow's been unusual for most of the southern half of the United Kingdom in recent decades, the Mail published the accompanying satellite photo of Great Britain during the recent cold snap. The island is essentially all covered with snow. Rose reported record lows as far south as Cuba--something I can attest to, living near Miami in south Florida, where we experienced sub-freezing weather over the weekend. He quoted Tsonis as saying that last week 56% of the United States was covered by snow--something that hasn't happened in several decades. And the "'Arctic oscillation'--a weather pattern that sees the development of huge 'blocking' areas of high pressure in northern latitudes, driving polar winds far to the south . . . is at its strongest for at least 60 years. As a result, the jetstream--the high-altitude wind that circles the globe from west to east and normally pushes a series of wet but mild Atlantic lows across Britain--is currently running not over the English Channel but the Strait of Gibraltar." Consequently, most of the Northern Hemisphere is much colder this winter than it's been in decades--and the Southern Hemisphere is cooler, too. According to Rose, Latif, Tsonis, and other scientists attribute the cold shift primarily to a shift in the world's dominant ocean circulations--the Pacific Decadal Oscillation and the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation--from a warm phase to a cool phase, something that happens about every 20 to 30 years. "The scientists' predictions also undermine the standard climate computer models, which assert that the warming of the Earth since 1900 has been driven solely by man-made greenhouse gas emissions and will continue as long as carbon dioxide levels rise. They say that their research shows that much of the warming was caused by oceanic cycles when they were in a 'warm mode' as opposed to the present 'cold mode'." That's a point made by Dr. Roy W. Spencer in the science chapter of the Cornwall Alliance's new document A Renewed Call to Truth, Prudence, and Protection of the Poor: An Evangelical Examination of the Theology, Science, and Economics of Global Warming and illustrated in the graph below. "A significant share of the warming we saw from 1980 to 2000 and at earlier periods in the 20th Century was due to these cycles," said Latif, "perhaps as much as 50 per cent. They have now gone into reverse, so winters like this one will become much more likely. Summers will also probably be cooler, and all this may well last two decades or longer. The extreme retreats that we have seen in glaciers and sea ice will come to a halt. For the time being, global warming has paused, and there may well be some cooling." Tsonis also believes that the ocean current cycles dominated global climate change in the 20th century, including the post-1970s, the period many point to as driven by human greenhouse gas emissions, but he doesn't venture to attribute specific percentages to the natural and human causes. "I do not believe in catastrophe theories," Rose quoted him as saying. "Man-made warming is balanced by the natural cycles, and I do not trust the computer models which state that if CO2 reaches a particular level then temperatures and sea levels will rise by a given amount. These models cannot be trusted to predict the weather for a week, yet they are running them to give readings for 100 years." Gray went farther: "Most of the rise in temperature from the Seventies to the Nineties was natural. Very little was down to CO2--in my view, as little as five to ten per cent." Gray, Tsonis, and Latif all agreed that the findings about the ocean currents undermined the credibility of the computer climate models on which the IPCC and other alarmists rely. </span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Warming inevitable </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Dickinson 9</span>** <span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">(Pete, Global warming: Is it too late?, 26 August 2009, http://www.socialistalternative.org/news/article19.php?id=1142, AMiles) </span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Note – paper cited is by Susan Solomon - atmospheric chemist working for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration - Gian-Kasper Plattnerb- Group, Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics, UCLA - Reto Knuttic - Institute for Atmopsheric and Climate Science, PhD </span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;"> New research is claiming that concentrations of carbon dioxide (the main greenhouse gas, CO2) will remain high for at least 1,000 years, even if greenhouse gases are eliminated in the next few decades. The climate scientists who produced this work assert that the effects of global warming, such as high sea levels and reduced rainfall in certain areas, will also persist over this time scale. (The findings are in a paper published in February in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences by researchers from the USA, Switzerland and France, www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.0812721106 ) Most previous estimates of the longevity of global warming effects, after greenhouse gases were removed, have ranged from a few decades to a century, so this new analysis could represent a development with very serious implications, including political ones. For example, those campaigning for action on climate change could be disheartened and climate sceptics could opportunistically say that nothing should be done because it is now too late. The authors of the paper make various estimates of CO2 concentrations based on the year emissions are cut, assumed to be from 2015 to 2050. They make optimistic assumptions, for instance, that emissions are cut at a stroke rather than gradually, and that their annual rate of growth before cut-off is 2%, not the 3% plus witnessed from 2000-05. They then estimate what the effects would be on surface warming, sea level rise and rainfall over a 1,000-year period using the latest climate models. The results of the melting of the polar ice caps are not included in the calculations of sea levels, only the expansion of the water in the oceans caused by the surface temperature increase so, as the authors point out, the actual new sea level will be much higher. The best-case results for surface warming, where action is taken in 2015 to eliminate emissions, show that over 1,000 years the temperature rises from 1.3 to 1.0 degree centigrade above pre-industrial levels. The worst case, where action is delayed to 2050, predicts surface temperatures will increase from just under to just over four degrees by 2320 and then remain approximately constant for the rest of the millennium. High levels of CO2 persist in the atmosphere because, over long timescales, reduction of the gas is dependent on the ability of the oceans to absorb it, but there are limits to this due to the physics and chemistry of deep-ocean mixing. On the other hand, the amount of heat in the atmosphere that can be absorbed by the sea, the key way surface temperatures are decreased, is limited by the same scientific laws. As a result, carbon concentrations cannot fall enough to force temperatures down while there is simultaneously reduced cooling due to limited heat loss to the oceans. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">US can’t solve warming </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Sensenbrenner 9</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;"> – Congressman and ranking minority member of the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming (James, 4/3, Technology Is the Answer to Climate Change, WSJ, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123871985916184973.html#mod=loomia?loomia_si=t0:a16:g2:r3:c0.191864:b23626456, AG) </span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">The U.S. cannot reduce the growth of greenhouse gases in the earth's atmosphere without the developing nations cutting their emissions as well. A 2007 study by the Battelle Memorial Institute found that if China, India and the other developing countries keep growing at current rates, they will emit nearly three times as much carbon dioxide as will the developed countries by the end of this century. But will China and India join in the effort to reduce CO2 emissions? During December's U.N. climate-change conference in Poznan, Poland, I asked delegates from both of these nations if they would agree to cut their emissions. Both said, unequivocally, "no." The Poznan conference wasn't my first experience with the developing world's refusal to sign up for the West's global-warming agenda. I led the congressional delegation to the infamous Kyoto, Japan, negotiations in 1997, and the story then was the same as now. Without China and India, there can be no deal. It's understandable why the developing nations are reluctant to cut emissions -- it means higher energy costs and reduced growth. China and India are more concerned with growing their economy, expanding access to electricity, and reducing poverty. I don't blame them. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Alt causes </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Ecobridge 7 </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">(http://www.ecobridge.org/content/g_cse.htm, AG) </span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">While carbon dioxide is the principal greenhouse gas, methane is second most important. According to the IPCC, Methane is more than 20 times as effective as CO2 at trapping heat in the atmosphere. US Emissions Inventory 2004 Levels of atmospheric methane have risen 145% in the last 100 years. [18] Methane is derived from sources such as rice paddies, bovine flatulence, bacteria in bogs and fossil fuel production. Most of the world’s rice, and all of the rice in the United States, is grown on flooded fields. When fields are flooded, anaerobic conditions develop and the organic matter in the soil decomposes, releasing CH4 to the atmosphere, primarily through the rice plants. US Emissions Inventory 2004 Water Vapor in the Atmosphere Increasing Water vapor is the most prevalent and most poweful greenhouse gas on the planet, but its increasing presence is the result of warming caused by carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. (See NOAA's National Climate Data Center (NCDC) FAQ page) Water vapor holds onto two-thirds of the heat trapped by all the greenhouse gases.[129] As the Earth heats up relative humidity is able to increase, allowing the planet's atmosphere to hold more water vapor, causing even more warming, thus a positive feedback scenario. Because the air is warmer, the relative humidity can be higher (in essence, the air is able to 'hold' more water when its warmer), leading to more water vapor in the atmosphere, says the NCDC. There is much scientific uncertainty as to the degree this feedback loop causes increased warming, inasmuch as the water vapor also causes increased cloud formation, which in turn reflects heat back out into space. Nitrous oxide Another greenhouse gas is Nitrous oxide (N2O), a colourless, non-flammable gas with a sweetish odour, commonly known as "laughing gas", and sometimes used as an anaesthetic. Nitrous oxide is naturally produced by oceans and rainforests. Man-made sources of nitrous oxide include nylon and nitric acid production, the use of fertilisers in agriculture, cars with catalytic converters and the burning of organic matter. Nitrous oxide is broken down in the atmosphere by chemical reactions that involve sunlight. Deforestation After carbon emissions caused by humans, deforestation is the second principle cause of atmospheric carbn dioxide. (NASA Web Site) Deforestation is responsible for 20-25% of all carbon emissions entering the atmosphere, by the burning and cutting of about 34 million acres of trees each year. We are losing millions of acres of rainforests each year, the equivalent in area to the size of Italy. [22] The destroying of tropical forests alone is throwing hundreds of millions of tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere each year. We are also losing temperate forests. The temperate forests of the world account for an absorption rate of 2 billion tons of carbon annually. [3] In the temperate forests of Siberia alone, the earth is losing 10 million acres per year. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Long timeframe means intervening actors and tech solve </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Michaels 7</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;"> – Cato senior fellow. PhD in climatology. Former Research Professor of Environmental Sciences from the University of Virginia. (Patrick, 2/2, Live with Climate Change, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=7502, AG) </span>


Consequently, the best policy is to live with some modest climate change now and encourage economic development, which will generate the capital necessary for investment in the more efficient technologies of the future. Fortunately, we have more time than the alarmists suggest. The warming path of the planet falls at the lowest end of today's U.N. projections. In aggregate, our computer models tell us that once warming is established, it tends to take place at a constant, not an increasing, rate. Reassuringly, the rate has been remarkably constant, at 0.324 degrees F per decade, since warming began around 1975. The notion that we must do "something in 10 years," repeated by a small but vocal band of extremists, enjoys virtually no support in the truly peer reviewed scientific literature. Rather than burning our capital now for no environmental gain (did someone say "ethanol?"), let's encourage economic development so people can invest and profit in our more efficient future. People who invested in automobile companies that developed hybrid technology have been rewarded handsomely in the past few years, and there's no reason to think environmental speculators won't be rewarded in the future, too. 

===2NC - Warming Science=== 


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">No runaway warming </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">McShane 8—</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Owen, chairman of the policy panel of the New Zealand Climate Science Coalition and director of the Centre for Resource Management Studies, April 4, 2008 </span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">(Cites Roy Spencer, principal research scientist for U of Alabama in Huntsville and recipient of NASA's Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement, “Climate change confirmed but global warming is cancelled”, The National Business Review (New Zealand), Lexis) </span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Atmospheric scientists generally agree that as carbon dioxide levels increase there is a law of "diminishing returns" - or more properly "diminishing effects" - and that ongoing increases in CO2 concentration do not generate proportional increases in temperature. The common analogy is painting over window glass. The first layers of paint cut out lots of light but subsequent layers have diminishing impact. So, you might be asking, why the panic? Why does Al Gore talk about temperatures spiraling out of control, causing mass extinctions and catastrophic rises in sea-level, and all his other disastrous outcomes when there is no evidence to support it? The alarmists argue that increased CO2 leads to more water vapour - the main greenhouse gas - and this provides positive feedback and hence makes the overall climate highly sensitive to small increases in the concentration of CO2. Consequently, the IPCC argues that while carbon dioxide may well "run out of puff" the consequent evaporation of water vapour provides the positive feedback loop that will make anthropogenic global warming reach dangerous levels. This assumption that water vapour provides positive feedback lies behind the famous "tipping point," which nourishes Al Gore's dreams of destruction, and indeed all those calls for action now - "before it is too late!" But no climate models predict such a tipping point. However, while the absence of hot spots has refuted one important aspect of the IPCC models we lack a mechanism that fully explains these supposed outcomes. Hence the IPCC, and its supporters, have been able to ignore this "refutation." So by the end of last year, we were in a similar situation to the 19th century astronomers, who had figured out that the sun could not be "burning" its fuel - or it would have turned to ashes long ago - but could not explain where the energy was coming from. Then along came Einstein and E=mc2. Hard to explain Similarly, the climate sceptics have had to explain why the hotspots are not where they should be - not just challenge the theory with their observations. This is why I felt so lucky to be in the right place at the right time when I heard Roy Spencer speak at the New York conference on climate change in March. At first I thought this was just another paper setting out observations against the forecasts, further confirming Evans' earlier work. But as the argument unfolded I realised Spencer was drawing on observations and measurements from the new Aqua satellites to explain the mechanism behind this anomaly between model forecasts and observation. You may have heard that the IPCC models cannot predict clouds and rain with any accuracy. Their models assume water vapour goes up to the troposphere and hangs around to cook us all in a greenhouse future. However, there is a mechanism at work that "washes out" the water vapour and returns it to the oceans along with the extra CO2 and thus turns the added water vapour into a NEGATIVE feedback mechanism. The newly discovered mechanism is a combination of clouds and rain (Spencer's mechanism adds to the mechanism earlier identified by Professor Richard Lindzen called the Iris effect). The IPCC models assumed water vapour formed clouds at high altitudes that lead to further warming. The Aqua satellite observations and Spencer's analysis show water vapour actually forms clouds at low altitudes that lead to cooling. Furthermore, Spencer shows the extra rain that falls from these clouds cools the underlying oceans, providing a second negative feedback to negate the CO2 warming. Alarmists' quandary This has struck the alarmists like a thunderbolt, especially as the lead author of the IPCC chapter on feedback has written to Spencer agreeing that he is right! There goes the alarmist neighbourhood! The climate is not highly sensitive to CO2 warming because water vapour is a damper against the warming effect of CO2. That is why history is full of Ice Ages - where other effects, such as increased reflection from the ice cover, do provide positive feedback - while we do not hear about Heat Ages. The Medieval Warm Period, for example, is known for being benignly warm - not dangerously hot. We live on a benign planet - except when it occasionally gets damned cold. While I have done my best to simplify these developments they remain highly technical and many people distrust their own ability to assess competing scientific claims. However, in this case the tipping point theories are based on models that do not include the effects of rain and clouds. The new Nasa Aqua satellite is the first to measure the effects of clouds and rainfall. Spencer's interpretation of **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the new data means all previous models and forecasts are obsolete</span>**. Would anyone trust long-term forecasts of farm production that were hopeless at forecasting rainfall? The implications of these breakthroughs in measurement and understanding are dramatic to say the least. The responses will be fun to watch.</span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">It’s not man made </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Wojick 5</span>** (David, President of Climatechange.org, Electricity Daily, January 10)

U.S. climate change research policy is seriously out of whack. There is growing evidence that solar variability is responsible for most of the global warming in the last century ( ED, Dec 15,2004). Coal fired power plants are being blamed for much of this warming, but if it is actually the sun at work then we are wasting time and a lot of money trying to cut carbon dioxide emissions. Clearly the Bush administration should be looking into this solar angle. But it is not, even though its $2 billion a year Climate Change Science Program just underwent a massive review. The CCSP is doing outdated, entrenched science, that assumes humans are to blame for what may well be a natural phenomenon. The problem is that the federal science program was defined 15 years ago. It was assumed then that the climate is naturally unchanging, so humans must be the cause of the observed warming. Since then we have learned that climate, like weather, is never constant, but the research program has not changed accordingly. In the last 6-8 years the sun has emerged as a big driver of Earth s climate change. For example, consider the findings of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which conducts massive periodic reviews of climate science. In 1995 the IPCC said that the sun was not a factor in the warming over the last century. In 2001 it concluded that more than half of that warming was solar induced, not human induced. Given that the IPCC tends to be biased toward the theory of human induced warming, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">this was a huge admission</span>**. The scientific trend marked by the IPCC s flip flop has continued. The research problem is that the known variations in solar energy are not strong enough to account for all of the observed global warming. But in the last five years a number of indirect, amplifying mechanisms have been identified. The result is that we now know how **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the sun might account for all of the warming</span>**, and there is growing evidence that it does. Research problems do not get any better, or more important, than this. The policy problem is that the CCSP has no plans to do solar-climate research. Because carbon dioxide was assumed to be the culprit, the annual CCSP budget has a $110 million carbon cycle component. But CO2 is a trace gas and the CO2 increase to date cannot explain the observed warming, without assuming a water vapor feedback, so the CCSP also includes a $150 million water-cycle component. There is no corresponding solar-cycle research, what little is done on solar is round-off error. The word solar barely occurs in the new CCSP Strategic Plan, and occurs not at all in the plan s milestones. In short, the climate research program has assumed an old, speculative answer to the warming question (humans are doing it) and is throwing vast quantities of money at that answer. Billions of dollars over the last 15 years. Now that a new answer is emerging (it s the Sun, after all) the CCSP has failed to notice. Clearly its time to put some of these big science bucks into solar climate research. U.S. energy policy hangs in the balance.


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">It will be slow </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Carter 7—</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">paleontologist, stratigrapher, marine geologist and environmental scientist, PhD from Cambridge University, 2007 is an Adjunct Research Professor at James Cook University (Robert M., “The Myth of Dangerous Human-Caused Climate Change”, the AusIMM New Leaders’ Conference, May 2-3)</span>


<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Though not a pollutant, it is nonetheless the case that carbon dioxide absorbs space-bound infrared radiation, thereby increasing the energy available at Earth’s surface for warming or increased evaporation (eg de Freitas, 2002). Radiation theory thus accepted, there remain four problems with turning an increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide into global warming alarmism. First, the relationship between increasing carbon dioxide and increasing temperature is logarithmic, which lessens the forcing effect of each successive increment of carbon dioxide (Figure 4). Second, in increasing from perhaps 280 ppm in pre-industrial times to 380 ppm now, carbon dioxide should already have produced 75 per cent of the theoretical warming of ~1°C that would be caused by a doubling to 560 ppm (Lindzen, 2006); as we move from 380 to 560 ppm, at most a trivial few tenths of a degree of warming remain in the system. Claims of greater warming, such as those of the IPCC (2001), are based upon arbitrary adjustments to the lambda value in the Stefan-Boltzmann equation, and untested assumptions about positive feedbacks from water vapour. Third, the ice core data show conclusively that, during natural climate cycling, changes in temperature precede changes in carbon dioxide by an average 800 years or so (Fischer et al, 1999; Indermuhle et al, 2000; Mudelsee, 2001; Caillon et al, 2003); similarly, temperature change precedes carbon dioxide change, in this case by five months, during annual seasonal cycling (Kuo, Lindberg and Thomson, 1990). And, fourth, Boucot, Xu and Scotese (2004) have shown that over the Phanerozoic little relationship exists between the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide and necessary warming, including that extensive glaciation occurred between 444 and 353 million years ago when atmospheric carbon dioxide was up to 17 times higher than today (Chumakov, 2004). </span>


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">No impact </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Lindzen 9—</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">professor of meteorology, MIT. Member of the National Academy of Sciences, and the Norwegian Academy of Sciences and Letters, and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Association for the Advancement of Sciences, the American Geophysical Union and the American Meteorological Society. PhD, Harvard (Richard, The Climate Science Isn't Settled, 30 November 2009, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703939404574567423917025400.html, AMiles)</span>


<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Claims that climate change is accelerating are bizarre. There is general support for the assertion that GATA has increased about 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit since the middle of the 19th century. The quality of the data is poor, though, and because the changes are small, it is easy to nudge such data a few tenths of a degree in any direction. Several of the emails from the University of East Anglia's Climate Research Unit (CRU) that have caused such a public ruckus dealt with how to do this so as to maximize apparent changes. The general support for warming is based not so much on the quality of the data, but rather on the fact that there was a little ice age from about the 15th to the 19th century. Thus it is not surprising that temperatures should increase as we emerged from this episode. At the same time that we were emerging from the little ice age, the industrial era began, and this was accompanied by increasing emissions of greenhouse gases such as CO2, methane and nitrous oxide. CO2 is the most prominent of these, and it is again generally accepted that it has increased by about 30%. The defining characteristic of a greenhouse gas is that it is relatively transparent to visible light from the sun but can absorb portions of thermal radiation. In general, the earth balances the incoming solar radiation by emitting thermal radiation, and the presence of greenhouse substances inhibits cooling by thermal radiation and leads to some warming. That said, the main greenhouse substances in the earth's atmosphere are water vapor and high clouds. Let's refer to these as major greenhouse substances to distinguish them from the anthropogenic minor substances. Even a doubling of CO2 would only upset the original balance between incoming and outgoing radiation by about 2%. This is essentially what is called "climate forcing." There is general agreement on the above findings. At this point there is no basis for alarm regardless of whether any relation between the observed warming and the observed increase in minor greenhouse gases can be established. Nevertheless, the most publicized claims of the U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) deal exactly with whether any relation can be discerned. The failure of the attempts to link the two over the past 20 years bespeaks the weakness of any case for concern. The IPCC's Scientific Assessments generally consist of about 1,000 pages of text. The Summary for Policymakers is 20 pages. It is, of course, impossible to accurately summarize the 1,000-page assessment in just 20 pages; at the very least, nuances and caveats have to be omitted. However, it has been my experience that even the summary is hardly ever looked at. Rather, the whole report tends to be characterized by a single iconic claim. The main statement publicized after the last IPCC Scientific Assessment two years ago was that it was likely that most of the warming since 1957 (a point of anomalous cold) was due to man. This claim was based on the weak argument that the current models used by the IPCC couldn't reproduce the warming from about 1978 to 1998 without some forcing, and that the only forcing that they could think of was man. Even this argument assumes that these models adequately deal with natural internal variability—that is, such naturally occurring cycles as El Nino, the Pacific Decadal Oscillation, the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation, etc. Yet articles from major modeling centers acknowledged that the failure of these models to anticipate the absence of warming for the past dozen years was due to the failure of these models to account for this natural internal variability. Thus even the basis for the weak IPCC argument for anthropogenic climate change was shown to be false. Of course, none of the articles stressed this. Rather they emphasized that according to models modified to account for the natural internal variability, warming would resume—in 2009, 2013 and 2030, respectively. But even if the IPCC's iconic statement were correct, it still would not be cause for alarm. After all we are still talking about tenths of a degree for over 75% of the climate forcing associated with a doubling of CO2. The potential (and only the potential) for alarm enters with the issue of climate sensitivity—which refers to the change that a doubling of CO2 will produce in GATA. It is generally accepted that a **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">doubling of CO2 will only produce a change of about two degrees</span>** Fahrenheit if all else is held constant. This is unlikely to be much to worry about. Yet current climate models predict much higher sensitivities. They do so because in these models, the main greenhouse substances (water vapor and clouds) act to amplify anything that CO2 does. This is referred to as positive feedback. But as the IPCC notes, clouds continue to be a source of major uncertainty in current models. Since clouds and water vapor are intimately related, the IPCC claim that they are more confident about water vapor is quite implausible. There is some evidence of a positive feedback effect for water vapor in cloud-free regions, but a major part of any water-vapor feedback would have to acknowledge that cloud-free areas are always changing, and this remains an unknown. At this point, few scientists would argue that the science is settled. In particular, the question remains as to whether water vapor and clouds have positive or negative feedbacks. The notion that the earth's climate is dominated by positive feedbacks is intuitively implausible, and the history of the earth's climate offers some guidance on this matter. About 2.5 billion years ago, the sun was 20%-30% less bright than now (compare this with the 2% perturbation that a doubling of CO2 would produce), and yet the evidence is that the oceans were unfrozen at the time, and that temperatures might not have been very different from today's. Carl Sagan in the 1970s referred to this as the "Early Faint Sun Paradox." For more than 30 years there have been attempts to resolve the paradox with greenhouse gases. Some have suggested CO2—but the amount needed was thousands of times greater than present levels and incompatible with geological evidence. Methane also proved unlikely. It turns out that increased thin cirrus cloud coverage in the tropics readily resolves the paradox—but only if the clouds constitute a negative feedback. In present terms this means that they would diminish rather than enhance the impact of CO2. There are quite a few papers in the literature that also point to the absence of positive feedbacks. The implied low sensitivity is entirely compatible with the small warming that has been observed. So how do models with high sensitivity manage to simulate the currently small response to a forcing that is almost as large as a doubling of CO2? Jeff Kiehl notes in a 2007 article from the National Center for Atmospheric Research, the models use another quantity that the IPCC lists as poorly known (namely aerosols) to arbitrarily cancel as much greenhouse warming as needed to match the data, with each model choosing a different degree of cancellation according to the sensitivity of that model.</span>

===<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">2NC - Inevitable </span>=== 


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Their reduction in warming is infinitesimal </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Lomborg 8</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;"> – adjunct professor at the Copenhagen Business School (Bjørn, 9/30, Global warming: why cut one 3,000th of a degree?, http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/guest_contributors/article4849167.ece, AG)</span>


<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Many of the proffered global warming policies are designed to help politicians bathe in the warm glow of good intentions, with little or no regard to the mounting costs and infinitesimal benefits. It is a well-rehearsed point that the Kyoto Protocol was a terribly inefficient, hugely costly way to do virtually no good. Even if every industrialised country, including the United States, had accepted the protocol, and everyone had lived up to its requirements for the entire century, it would have had virtually no impact, even a hundred years from now. It would reduce the global temperature increase by an immeasurable 0.15C by the year 2100. The cost of implementing Kyoto, taking the average figure from the various top macroeconomic models, would have been almost £100 billion annually for the rest of the century. The US declined to sign up to Kyoto and many countries, including Spain, Japan, Canada, and Greece, have had a hard time living up to their pledges. It is likely that the total reduction in carbon emissions will be less than 5 per cent of what Kyoto promised. Yet the EU and others advocate that Kyoto-style policies are still right, only that much more than Kyoto is needed. The EU has promised to cut its emissions by 20 per cent by 2020, through a 20 per cent increase in renewables. There seems to be no better reason for this decision than that 20 and 20 in 2020 sounds good. Gordon Brown has wholeheartedly backed the plan, which includes making a dramatic increase in renewables - mainly 3,500 wind turbines in the North Sea. The British Government estimates the cumulative carbon saving from all its plans at somewhere between 950 and 1,100 million tonnes of CO2 by 2030. The Department for Business will not give a figure beyond that timeframe but, given that wind turbines have a lifetime of about two decades, this seems the relevant cumulative reduction given the investment. The department confirms that the total investment from public and private sources into renewables will be about £100 billion. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Computer modelling</span>** - using DICE (dynamic integrated model of climate and the economy) - **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">shows</span>** that the net effect of the UK renewables effort is impossibly tiny. The temperature increase by 2100 without Mr Brown's plan would have been 2.4536181C. With the best-case scenario the huge UK effort means that the temperature at the end of the century would be 2.4532342C. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The effect is a difference of</span>** about 0.00038C - or about **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">one three-thousandth of a degree in a hundred years</span>**. This is the equivalent of delaying the temperature increase by the end of the century by a little less than a week.</span>


===**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">2NC Impact Calc</span>**=== 


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">War is worse than warming </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Shaefer 7—</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">and Lieberman, – Jay Kingham Fellow in International Regulatory Affairs. Senior Policy Analyst, Energy and Environment. 2007 (Brett D. Shaefer and Ben Lieberman. “Discussing Global Warming in the Security Council: Premature and a Distraction from More Pressing Crises.” http://www.heritage.org/Research/InternationalOrganizations/wm1425.cfm)</span>


<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">The United Kingdom is wrong to foist this issue on the Council. First, the extent, source, and consequences of global warming are subject to debate, and the possible implications of global warming, particularly the security implications, are speculative. Even if these consequences occur as predicted in the IPCC report, they are not immediate security threats. Second, numerous policy initiatives, forums, and organizations are focused on studying and evaluating the consequences of global warming. The focus of these efforts and discussions is to clarify the science of global warming and weigh the costs of action to address global warming against the risks of inaction. A debate in the Security Council is unlikely to contribute to these ongoing efforts. Finally, the Security Council has a full docket of immediate threats to international peace and security that is has failed to resolve. Focusing on speculative threats that may arise decades in the future undermines the seriousness of the body and is an affront to those suffering from immediate crises. Worse, it distracts the Council from pressing threats to international peace and security. </span>




==Terrorism== 


<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">No nuclear terror </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Schneidmiller 9</span>** (Chris, Experts Debate Threat of Nuclear, Biological Terrorism, 13 January 2009, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090113_7105.php, AMiles) </span>

<span class="Underline">There is an "almost vanishingly small" likelihood that terrorists would ever be able to acquire and detonate a nuclear weapon, one expert said here yesterday (see GSN, Dec. 2, 2008). In even the most likely scenario of nuclear terrorism, there are 20 barriers between extremists and a successful nuclear strike on a major city, said John Mueller, a political science professor at Ohio State University. The process itself is seemingly straightforward but exceedingly difficult -- buy or steal highly enriched uranium, manufacture a weapon, take the bomb to the target site and blow it up. Meanwhile, variables strewn across the path to an attack would increase the complexity of the effort, Mueller argued. Terrorists would have to bribe officials in a state nuclear program to acquire the material, while avoiding a sting by authorities or a scam by the sellers. The material itself could also turn out to be bad. "Once the purloined material is purloined, [police are] going to be chasing after you. They are also going to put on a high reward, extremely high reward, on getting the weapon back or getting the fissile material back," Mueller said during a panel discussion at a two-day Cato Institute conference on counterterrorism issues facing the incoming Obama administration. Smuggling the material out of a country would mean relying on criminals who "are very good at extortion" and might have to be killed to avoid a double-cross, Mueller said. The terrorists would then have to find scientists and engineers willing to give up their normal lives to manufacture a bomb, which would require an expensive and sophisticated machine shop. Finally, further technological expertise would be needed to sneak the weapon across national borders to its destination point and conduct a successful detonation, Mueller said. Every obstacle is "difficult but not impossible" to overcome, Mueller said, putting the chance of success at no less than one in three for each. The likelihood of successfully passing through each obstacle, in sequence, would be roughly one in 3 1/2 billion, he said, but for argument's sake dropped it to 3 1/2 million. "It's a total gamble. This is a very expensive and difficult thing to do," said Mueller, who addresses the issue at greater length in an upcoming book, Atomic Obsession. "So unlike buying a ticket to the lottery ... you're basically putting everything, including your life, at stake for a gamble that's maybe one in 3 1/2 million or 3 1/2 billion." Other scenarios are even less probable, Mueller said. A nuclear-armed state is "exceedingly unlikely" to hand a weapon to a terrorist group, he argued: "States just simply won't give it to somebody they can't control." Terrorists are also not likely to be able to steal a whole weapon, Mueller asserted, dismissing the idea of "loose nukes." Even Pakistan, which today is perhaps the nation of greatest concern regarding nuclear security, keeps its bombs in two segments that are stored at different locations, he said (see GSN, Jan. 12). Fear of an "extremely improbable event" such as nuclear terrorism produces support for a wide range of homeland security activities, Mueller said. He argued that there has been a major and costly overreaction to the terrorism threat -- noting that the Sept. 11 attacks helped to precipitate the invasion of Iraq, which has led to far more deaths than the original event. Panel moderator Benjamin Friedman, a research fellow at the Cato Institute, said academic and governmental discussions of acts of nuclear or biological terrorism have tended to focus on "worst-case assumptions about terrorists' ability to use these weapons to kill us." There is need for consideration for what is probable rather than simply what is possible, he said. Friedman took issue with the finding late last year of an experts' report that an act of WMD terrorism would "more likely than not" occur in the next half decade unless the international community takes greater action. "I would say that the report, if you read it, actually offers no analysis to justify that claim, which seems to have been made to change policy by generating alarm in headlines." One panel speaker offered a partial rebuttal to Mueller's presentation. Jim Walsh, principal research scientist for the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said he agreed that nations would almost certainly not give a nuclear weapon to a nonstate group, that most terrorist organizations have no interest in seeking out the bomb, and that it would be difficult to build a weapon or use one that has been stolen. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">No motivation to use nukes</span>** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Moodie 2</span>**— headed the Chemical and Biological Arms Control Institute and served as assistant director for multilateral affairs at the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. president of the Chemical and Biological Arms Control Institute (Brad Roberts and Michael Moodie, Biological Weapons: Toward a Threat Reduction Strategy, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/DefHor/DH15/DH15.htm, AG) </span>

<span class="Underline">The argument about terrorist motivation is also important. Terrorists generally have not killed as many as they have been capable of killing. This restraint seems to derive from an understanding of mass casualty attacks as both unnecessary and counterproductive. They are unnecessary because terrorists, by and large, have succeeded by conventional means. Also, they are counterproductive because they might alienate key constituencies, whether among the public, state sponsors, or the terrorist leadership group. In Brian Jenkins' famous words, terrorists want a lot of people watching, not a lot of people dead. Others have argued that the lack of mass casualty terrorism and effective exploitation of BW has been more a matter of accident and good fortune than capability or intent. Adherents of this view, including former Secretary of Defense William Cohen, argue that "it's not a matter of if but when." The attacks of September 11 would seem to settle the debate about whether terrorists have both the motivation and sophistication to exploit weapons of mass destruction for their full lethal effect. After all, those were terrorist attacks of unprecedented sophistication that seemed clearly aimed at achieving mass casualties--had the World Trade Center towers collapsed as the 1993 bombers had intended, perhaps as many as 150,000 would have died. Moreover, Osama bin Laden's constituency would appear to be not the "Arab street" or some other political entity but his god. And terrorists answerable only to their deity have proven historically to be among the most lethal. But this debate cannot be considered settled. Bin Laden and his followers could have killed many more on September 11 if killing as many as possible had been their primary objective. They now face the core dilemma of asymmetric warfare: how to escalate without creating new interests for the stronger power and thus the incentive to exploit its power potential more fully. Asymmetric adversaries want their stronger enemies fearful, not fully engaged--militarily or otherwise. They seek to win by preventing the stronger partner from exploiting its full potential. To kill millions in America with biological or other weapons would only commit the United States--and much of the rest of the international community--to the annihilation of the perpetrators. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Their evidence assumes worst case scenarios—they have to provide evidence that all the conditions would be right </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Leitenberg 5</span>**—Senior Research Scholar, Center for International Security Studies at U Maryland. Held two Visiting Professorships, at Cornell University and at the Paterson Graduate School of International Studies, Carleton University, in Ottawa, Canada (Milton, Assessing the Biological Weapons And Bioterrorism Threat, December 2005, http://www.cissm.umd.edu/papers/files/assessing_bw_threat.pdf, AMiles) </span>

<span class="Underline">A 2003 report for the Century Foundation nevertheless noted, that the 2001 “Amerithrax” events demonstrated that “. . . bioterrorism could have an uncertain, far reaching, and potentially devastating impact.”42 The statement that the release of a biological pathogen by a terrorist group should be considered as an occurrence of “low probability but high impact” is correct, but only with important qualifications. It does not mean any release of any agent formulation under any circumstances. Rather, it presumes the release of a very high quality product, efficiently distributed under optimum conditions. Later sections of this monograph return to this question in more detail.</span>

==Hegemony== 
===Inevitable=== 


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Hegemony inevitable </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Friedman 9</span>**—chief executive, founder of STRATFOR. Former pol sci prof, Dickinson College. PhD in government, Cornell. (George, The Next 100 Years, 13-31)

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">We are </span></span>now <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in an America-centric age</span></span>. To understand this age, we must understand the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates, not only because it is so powerful but because its <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">culture will permeate the world and deﬁne it</span></span>. Just as French culture and British culture were deﬁnitive during their times of power, so American culture, as young and barbaric as it is, will deﬁne the way the world thinks and lives. So studying the twenty- ﬁrst century means studying the United States. If there were only one argument I could make about the twenty- ﬁrst century, it would be that the European Age has ended and that the North American Age has begun, and that North America will be dominated by the United States for the next hundred years. The events of the twentyﬁrst century will pivot around the United States. That doesn’t guarantee that the United States is necessarily a just or moral regime. It certainly does not mean that America has yet developed a mature civilization. It does mean that in many ways the history of the United States will be the history of the twenty- ﬁrst century<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. There is a</span></span> deep- seated <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">belief </span></span>in America that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is approaching</span></span> the eve of its <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">destruction</span></span>. Read letters to the editor, peruse the Web, and listen to public discourse. Disastrous <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">wars</span></span>, uncontrolled <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">deﬁcits</span></span>, high <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">gas</span></span>oline <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">prices</span></span>, shootings at universities, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">corruption</span></span> in business and government, and an endless litany of other <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">shortcomings</span></span>—all of them quite real—create a sense that the American dream has been shattered and that America is past its prime. If that doesn’t convince you, listen to Europeans. They will assure you that America’s best day is behind it. The odd thing is that all of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this foreboding was present during </span></span>the presidency of Richard <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Nixon</span></span>, together with many of the same issues. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There is a</span></span> continual <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">fear </span></span>that American power and prosperity are illusory, and that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">disaster is </span></span>just <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">around the corner</span></span>. The sense transcends ideology. Environmentalists and Christian conservatives are both delivering the same message. Unless we repent of our ways, we will pay the price—and it may be too late already. It’s interesting to note that the nation that believes in its manifest destiny has not only a sense of impending disaster but a nagging feeling that the country simply isn’t what it used to be. We have a deep sense of nostalgia for the 1950s as a “simpler” time. This is quite a strange belief. With the Korean War and McCarthy at one end, Little Rock in the middle, and Sputnik and Berlin at the other end, and the very real threat of nuclear war throughout, the 1950s was actually a time of intense anxiety and foreboding. A widely read book published in the 1950s was entitled The Age of Anxiety. In the 1950s, they looked back nostalgically at an earlier America, just as we look back nostalgically at the 1950s. American culture is the manic combination of exultant hubris and profound gloom. The net result is a sense of conﬁdence constantly undermined by the fear that we may be drowned by melting ice caps caused by global warming or smitten dead by a wrathful God for gay marriage, both outcomes being our personal responsibility. American mood swings make it hard to develop a real sense of the United States at the beginning of the twentyﬁrst century. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">But </span></span>the fact is that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">stunningly powerful</span>**.</span></span> It may be that it is heading for a catastrophe, but it is hard to see one when you look at the basic facts. Let’s consider some illuminating ﬁgures. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Americans constitute</span></span> about <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">4 percent of the world’s population but produce </span></span>about <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">26 percent of </span></span>all <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">goods and services</span></span>. In 2007 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U.S. g</span></span>ross <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">d</span></span>omestic <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">p</span></span>roduct <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">was</span></span> about $14 trillion, compared to the world’s GDP of $54 trillion—about <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">26 percent of </span></span>the world’s <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">economic activity</span></span> takes place in the United States. The next largest economy in the world is Japan’s, with a GDP of about $4.4 trillion—about a third the size of ours. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The American economy is</span></span> so huge that it is <span class="Underline"><span style="border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">larger than the economies of the next four countries combined</span></span>: Japan, Germany, China, and the United Kingdom. Many people point at the declining auto and steel industries, which a generation ago were the mainstays of the American economy, as examples of a current deindustrialization of the United States. Certainly, a lot of industry has moved overseas. That has left the United States with industrial production of only $2.8 trillion (in 2006): the largest in the world, more than twice the size of the next largest industrial power, Japan, and larger than Japan’s and China’s industries combined. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There is talk of oil shortages</span></span>, which certainly seem to exist and will undoubtedly increase. However, it is important to realize that the United States produced 8.3 million barrels of oil every day in 2006. Compare that with 9.7 million for Russia and 10.7 million for Saudi Arabia. U.S. oil production is 85 percent that of Saudi Arabia. The United States produces more oil than Iran, Kuwait, or the United Arab Emirates. Imports of oil into the country are vast, but given its industrial production, that’s understandable. Comparing natural gas production in 2006, Russia was in ﬁrst place with 22.4 trillion cubic feet and the United States was second with 18.7 trillion cubic feet. U.S. natural gas production is greater than that of the next ﬁve producers combined. In other words, although there is great concern that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is </span></span>wholly dependent on foreign energy, it is actually <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">one of the </span></span>world’s <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">largest energy producers</span></span>. Given the vast size of the American economy, it is interesting to note that the United States is still underpopulated by global standards. Measured in inhabitants per square kilometer, the world’s average population density is 49. Japan’s is 338, Germany’s is 230, and America’s is only 31. If we exclude Alaska, which is largely uninhabitable, U.S. population density rises to 34. Compared to Japan or Germany, or the rest of Europe, the United States is hugely underpopulated. Even when we simply compare population in proportion to arable land—land that is suitable for agriculture—<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">America has five times as much land per person </span></span>as Asia, almost twice as much as Europe, and three times as much as the global average. An economy consists of land, labor, and capital. In the case of the United States, these numbers show that the nation can still grow—it has plenty of room to increase all three. There are many answers to the question of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">why the U.S. economy is so powerful</span></span>, but the simplest answer <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is military power</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates completely dominates a continent that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is invulnerable to invasion</span></span> and occupation and in which <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">its military <span style="border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 0in;">overwhelms</span></span></span> those of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">its neighbors.</span></span> Virtually every other industrial power in the world has experienced devastating warfare in the twentieth century. The United States waged war, but America itself never experienced it. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Military power and geographical reality created an economic reality.</span></span> Other countries have lost time recovering from wars. The United States has not. It has actually grown because of them. Consider this simple fact that I’ll be returning to many times. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Navy controls all </span></span>of the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">oceans </span></span>of the world. Whether it’s a junk in the South China Sea, a dhow off the African coast, a tanker in the Persian Gulf, or a cabin cruiser in the Caribbean, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">every ship</span></span> in the world <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">moves under the eyes of American satellites</span></span> in space <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and </span></span>its movement <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is guaranteed</span></span>—<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">or denied</span></span>—at will <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">by the </span></span>U.S. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Navy</span></span>. The combined <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">naval force of the</span></span> rest of the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">world doesn’t come close to equali</span></span>ng that of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U.S.</span></span> Navy. <span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">This has never happened before</span>**</span> in human history, even with Britain. There have been regionally dominant navies, but <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">never one that was **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">globally</span>**</span></span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and overwhelmingly dominant</span></span></span>**. 
This has meant that the United States could invade other countries—but never be invaded. It has meant that in the ﬁnal analysis <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">controls </span></span>international <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">trade</span></span>. It has become the foundation of American security and American wealth. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Control of the seas</span></span> emerged after World War II, solidiﬁed during the ﬁnal phase of the European Age, and <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is </span></span>now <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the ﬂip side of American economic power, the basis of its military power</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Whatever passing problems exist </span></span>for the United States, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the most important factor </span></span>in world affairs <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is the <span style="border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 0in;">tremendous imbalance</span> of economic, military, and political power</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Any attempt to forecast the twenty- ﬁrst century that does not begin </span></span>with the recognition of the extraordinary nature of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">American power is out of touch with reality. </span></span>But I am making a broader, more unexpected claim, too: <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is </span></span>only <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">at the beginning of its power.</span> **<span style="text-decoration: none;">The twenty first century will be the American century</span>**</span>. 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Nuclear primacy solves </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Craig 9</span>** – Professor of International Relations at the University of Southampton (Campbell, Review of International Studies, “American power preponderance and the nuclear revolution,” 35, 27–44, Cambridge Database)

As Keir Lieber and Daryl Press have suggested, the US may be on the verge of acquiring a first-strike nuclear capability, which, combined with an effective system of anti-ballistic missile defence, could allow the US to destroy a rival’s nuclear capabilities and intercept any remaining retaliatory missiles before they hit American cities. While this possibility clearly reduces the likelihood of other states seeking to match American power with the aim of fighting and winning a nuclear war, and, if their argument becomes widely accepted, could lead American policy-makers to reject the logic of the nuclear revolution and consider pre-emptive nuclear strikes against large nuclear rivals, it clearly is less germane to the question of small-state deterrence.33 Lieber and Press contend that the US may have the capability to destroy the entire nuclear arsenal of another large nuclear state lest that state use it on America first for the purposes of winning a great war. That, as they say, would mean the end of Mutual Assured Destruction as it existed during the Cold War. However, Washington would have much less reason to use its new first-strike capability against a nation that cannot threaten to destroy the US, and has no ambition to defeat America in a war, but only possesses a second-strike minimum deterrent. Such an attack would turn much of the world against a US willing to use nuclear weapons and kill hundreds of thousands or millions in order to defeat a nation that did not threaten its survival. Perhaps more to the point, an attack like this would be tremendously risky. Even after a perfect first strike some retaliation might get through, which could mean the nuclear destruction of an American city or perhaps the city of an American ally. At the very least, survivors of the attacked state and their allies would seek to unleash destruction upon the US in other ways, including an unconventional delivery of a nuclear, chemical, or biological weapon. An imperfect first strike, or, even worse, a failure of the US anti-missile system, would constitute a total disaster for the US: not only would it incur the world’s wrath and suffer the destruction of one or more of its cities, but such a failure would also expose America as both a brutal and vulnerable state, surely encouraging other states to acquire nuclear weapons or otherwise defy it. The US might have reason to launch a first strike against a large rival that deployed a major arsenal and appeared ready to attack America, as implausible as this scenario is. It would have little reason to do so against a small nation with a second-strike minimum deterrent arsenal. The nuclear revolution delivers a clear message to any large state considering major war with a powerful nuclear rival. The message is that such a war is likely to escalate to total nuclear exchange, and that in this event a large percentage of its citizenry will be killed or injured, its ability to govern what remains of the nation will be weakened or destroyed, and its power relative to other states that stayed out of the war will be radically diminished. It also delivers a message to any advanced small state eager to obtain security from the possible predation of large ones. The message is that if the small state possesses, or can quickly get its hands on, a few invulnerable and deliverable nuclear weapons, any large state contemplating invading it will have to weigh the benefits of invasion against a new kind of cost – not just a difficult or stalemated conventional war, such as the US faced in Vietnam and faces in Iraq, but the destruction of perhaps one, three, or five of its cities, and the death and injury of millions of its citizens. Unless it is able to obtain an absolutely fool-proof defence against any kind of nuclear retaliation, the choice that any large state is going to make when faced with this new circumstance is so likely to be peace that the small nuclear state can feel confident that it will be safe from conquest.34 **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The</span>** general relevance of these **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">messages to</span>** American **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">unipolar preponderance is clear</span>**. At the ‘great power’ level, rising states are unlikely to regard major war as a suitable means for overturning the international system and overthrowing American preponderance. The classic means of systemic change – hegemonic war – will not be an attractive option to any state hoping to survive, and the very existence of nuclear arsenals will make all states cautious about provoking conflict with nuclear rivals, especially the heavily armed US.35 Moreover, advanced smaller states know that they can provide for their own security, if they come to believe that it is endangered, not by embarking on large military build-ups or forming alliances with larger states, but by developing a small and invulnerable nuclear arsenal, or at least preparing the way to obtain such an arsenal quickly. This means that small states have a far greater ability to defend themselves from, and therefore be less afraid of, American predation today than comparable states facing dominant powers in previous eras.36 The main effects of the nuclear revolution, then, bolster the general claim of Power Preponderance that unipolarity is enduring. To support their claim, Brooks and Wohlforth specify three factors that dissuade would-be rivals to the US from balancing against it in traditional military terms: the effect of America’s relative geographical isolation from these potential rivals; the fact that American preponderance happened as a fait accompli about which no other nation could do anything; and the vast and growing ‘power gap’ between the US and all other rivals. The next section will describe each factor, and show how the nuclear revolution specifically reinforces each of them. 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: italic;">Aging crisis solves </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: italic;">Haas 7 </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: italic; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Assistant Professor of Political Science at Duquesne University </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">(Mark L. “A Geriatric Peace? The Future of U.S. Power in a World of Aging Populations” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">International Security</span>//, Vol. 32, No. 1, Summer, p 112-147 (EBSCO)) </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Global population aging will</span>** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">influence U.S. foreign policies in five major ways in coming decades. First, this phenomenon will</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">be a potent force for the continuation of U.S. power dominance, both economic and military</span>**. Aging populations are likely to result in the slowdown of states’ economic growth at the same time that governments face substantial pressure to pay for massive new expenditures for elderly care. <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">This double economic dilemma will create such an austere fiscal environment that the other</span> great powers will lack the resources necessary to overtake the United States’ huge power lead. Investments designed to improve overall economic growth and purchases of military weaponry will be crowded out. <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Compounding these difficulties,</span> although the United States is growing older, it is doing so to a lesser extent and less quickly than all the other great powers. Consequently, the economic and fiscal costs for the United States created by social aging <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">(although staggering, especially for health care)</span> will be significantly lower for it than for potential competitors. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Global aging is therefore not only likely to extend U.S. hegemony</span>** (<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">because the other major powers will lack the resources necessary to overtake the United States’ economic and military power lead)</span>, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">but deepen it as these others states are likely to fall even farther behind the United States</span>**. Thus despite much recent discussion in the international relations literature and some policymaking circles about the likelihood of China <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">(and to a lesser extent</span> the European Union) balancing U.S. power <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">in coming decades</span>, the realities of social aging and its economic and military effects make such an outcome unlikely.6 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Prefer our evidence— </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">a) Best analysis </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Lieberman 9</span>** – Professor of Political Science at Queens College (Peter, “What to Read on American Primacy,” Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/features/readinglists/what-to-read-on-american-primacy) 

As the Cold War era came to a close, Charles Krauthammer announced the arrival of its successor. The United States was the preeminent power in the world, he wrote, but it needed to exercise global leadership to maintain its position. The <span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">most compelling analysis</span>**</span> of unipolarity <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">was </span></span>ultimately <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">offered by </span></span>William <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Wohlforth</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">who argued </span></span>that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">possessed </span></span>a commanding <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">lead in four critical elements</span></span> of material power: <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">economic strength, military might, technology, and geography</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The combination meant</span></span> that the United States was not only dominant but so strong that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">other powers had **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">no chance of</span>**</span></span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">catching up</span></span></span>** anytime soon <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">no matter what they did</span></span>. As a result, Wohlforth claimed, U.S. primacy would not fade quickly but last for decades to come. 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">b) They cherry pick </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Wohlforth 9</span>**—Daniel Webster Professor of Government, Dartmouth. BA in IR, MA in IR and MPhil and PhD in pol sci, Yale (William and Stephen Brooks, Reshaping the World Order, March / April 2009, Foreign Affairs Vol. 88, Iss. 2; pg. 49, 15 pgs, AMiles)

Only a few years ago, pundits were absorbed in debates about American "empire." Now, the conventional wisdom is that the world is rapidly approaching the end of the unipolar system with the United States as the sole superpower. A dispassionate look at the facts shows that this view understates U.S. power as much as recent talk of empire exaggerated it. That the United States weighs more on the traditional scales of world power <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">than </span></span>has any other state in modern history is as true now as it was when the commentator Charles Krauthammer proclaimed the advent of a "unipolar moment" in these pages nearly two decades ago. The United States continues to account for about half the world's defense spending and one-quarter of its economic output. Some of the reasons for bearishness concern public policy problems that can be fixed (expensive health care in the United States, for example), whereas many of the reasons for bullishness are more fundamental (such as the greater demographic challenges faced by the United States' potential rivals). So why has opinion shifted so quickly from visions of empire to gloomy declinism? One reason is that the United States' successes at the turn of the century <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">led </span></span>to irrational exuberance, thereby setting unreasonably high standards for measuring the superpower's performance. From 1999 to 2003, seemingly easy U.S. victories in Kosovo, Afghanistan, and Iraq led some to conclude that the United States could do what no great power in history had managed before: effortlessly defeat its adversaries. It was only a matter of time before such pie-in-the-sky benchmarks proved unattainable. Subsequent difficulties in Afghanistan and Iraq dashed illusions of omnipotence, but these upsets hardly displaced the United States as the world's leading state, and there is no reason to believe that the militaries of its putative rivals would have performed any better. The United States did not cease to be a superpower when its policies in Cuba and Vietnam failed in the 1960s; bipolarity lived on for three decades. Likewise, the United States remains the sole superpower today. Another key reason for the multipolar mania is "the rise of the rest." Impressed by the rapid economic growth of China and India, many write as if multipolarity has already returned. But such pronouncements mistake current trajectories for final outcomes - a common strategic error with deep psychological roots. The greatest concern in the Cold War, for example, came not from the Soviet Union's actually parity with the United States but from expectation that it would do so in the Veterans of that era recall how the of Sputnik in 1957 fed the perception Soviet power was growing rapidly, leading some policymakers and analysts to start acting as if the Soviet Union were already as powerful as the United atares. A state is rising should not be confused with one that has risen, just as a state that is declining should not be written offas having already declined. China is generally seen as the country best positioned to emerge as a superpower challenger to the United States. Yet depending on how one measures gdp, China's economy is between 20 percent and 43 percent the size of the United States'. More dramatic is the difference in gdp per capita, for which all measures show China's as being less than 10 percent of the United States'. Absent a i930s-style depression that spares potential U.S. rivals, the United States will not be replaced as the sole superpower for a very long time. Real multipolarity - an international system of three or more evenly matched powers - is nowhere on the horizon. Relative power between states shifts slowly. This tendency to conflate trends with outcomes is often driven by the examination in isolation of certain components of state power. If the habit during the Cold War was to focus on military power, the recent trend has been to single out economic output. No declinisi tract is complete without a passage noting that although the United States may remain a military superpower, economic multipolarity is, or soon will be, the order of the day. Much as highlighting the Soviet Union's military power meant overlooking the country's economic and technological feet of clay, examining only economic output means putting on blinders. In 1991, Japan's economy was two-thirds the size of the United States', which, according to the current popular metric, would mean that with the Soviet Union's demise, the world shifted from bipolarity to, well, bipolarity. Such a partial assessment of power will produce no more accurate an analysis today. Nor will giving in to apprehension about the growing importance of nonstate actors. The National Intelligence Council's report Global Trends 2025 grabbed headlines by forecasting the coming multipolarity, anticipating a power shift as much to nonstate actors as to fast-growing countries. But nonstate actors are nothing new - compare the scale and scope of today's pirates off the Somali coast with those of their eighteenth-century predecessors or the political power of today's multinational corporations with that of such behemoths as the British East India Company - and projections of their rise may well be as much hype as reflections of reality. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">And even if the power of nonstate actors is rising, </span></span>this should only increase the incentives for interstate cooperation; <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nonstate threats do not affect just the U</span></span>nited<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> S</span></span>tates. Most nonstate actors' behavior, moreover, still revolves around influencing the decisions of states. Nongovernmental organizations typically focus on trying to get states to change their policies, and the same is true of most terrorists. When it comes to making, managing, and remaking international institutions, states remain the most important actors - and the United States is the most important of them. No other country will match the United States' combination of wealth, size, technological capacity, and productivity in the foreseeable future. The world is and will long remain a 1 + ? world, with one superpower and ? number of major powers. A shift from 1 + 3 to 1 + 4 or 5 or 6 would have many important consequences, but it would not change the fact that the United States will long be in a far stronger position to lead the world than any other state.

<span style="mso-pagination: widow-orphan lines-together;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">No Asian challengers </span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Mead 7</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">—senior fellow, Council of Foreign Relations. Prof of foreign policy, Bard. BA from Yale (Walter Russell, 10/14, China doesn't own the future, http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/sunday/commentary/la-op-mead14oct14,0,113024.story?coll=la-sunday-commentary, AG) </span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Asia's Big Three -- China, India and Japan -- are in rough balance. Any two of them are economically and militarily strong enough to prevent the third from dominating the region. India and Japan could balance China. China and Japan could balance India. And Japan's dreams of dominating the Pacific died in 1945. With the U.S. also prepared to defend the balance of power in Asia, it seems unlikely that China, or any other nation, will waste time and money in the effort to overturn it. China will continue to modernize its military and test the limits of its power. But for it to build armed forces that could overcome the combined might of the U.S., India and Japan is not now, and probably never will be, a feasible project.</span>

===<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Inevitable - AT Public Support </span></span>=== 




<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Public support for heg inevitable </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Gray 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—IR and strategic studies, U Reading, England. PhD (Colin, After Iraq: The Search for a Sustainable National Security Strategy, January 2009, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=902, AMiles) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The “lone wolf</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">” </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">America </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">that elects to withdraw from active global security engagement would discover that its attempt to be disinterested in the extra-American world was damaging to the country’s interests. Also, such an American policy </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">could not long endure because it would be rejected culturally by </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">many </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Americans</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Although America</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">n</span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> culture favors limited liability abroad, it still demands to be spread so as to colonize a world that stubbornly remains backward. </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Almost </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">regardless of material considerations, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">too many Americans want to improve the outside world for wholehearted security withdrawal to be sustainable. </span>**</span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Withdrawal wouldn’t be sustainable </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Gray 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—IR and strategic studies, U Reading, England. PhD (Colin, After Iraq: The Search for a Sustainable National Security Strategy, January 2009, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=902, AMiles) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">After Iraq, Americans could well decide</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> that </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the possibilities of</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> policy and strategic </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">error are so large that the country should not trust itself to play the global guardian role. But </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">one can predict that </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">such a public </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">policy </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">mood would not </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">long </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">endure</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The consequences of America-light purposeful behavior </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">globally </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would come to be too uncomfortable for most Americans</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. Admittedly, this is a bold, perhaps rash, prediction. But it expresses the view that </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">were the U</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nited </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">tates </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">to disengage </span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">seriously from actual and potential security duties around Eurasia, </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it would</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> soon </span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">regret the decision</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. This is not to neglect the possibility that elements of such a process of American disengagement from Eurasia, on-shore if not off-shore, might be compelled by the political decisions and strategic advances of others. Policy and strategy decisions may not be wholly discretionary for Washington. </span></span>


===No Solve War=== 


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">No impact to hegemony </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Friedman 10</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—research fellow in defense and homeland security, Cato. PhD candidate in pol sci, MIT (Ben, Military Restraint and Defense Savings, 20 July 2010, http://www.cato.org/testimony/ct-bf-07202010.html, AMiles) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Another argument for high military spending is that U.S. military hegemony underlies global stability. Our forces and alliance commitments dampen conflict between potential rivals like China and Japan, we are told, preventing them from fighting wars that would disrupt trade and cost us more than the military spending that would have prevented war. The theoretical and empirical foundation for this claim is weak. It overestimates both the American military's contribution to international stability and the danger that instability abroad poses to Americans. In Western Europe, U.S. forces now contribute little to peace, at best making the tiny odds of war among states there slightly more so.7 Even in Asia, where there is more tension, the history of international relations suggests that without U.S. military deployments potential rivals, especially those separated by sea like Japan and China, will generally achieve a stable balance of power rather than fight. In other cases, as with our bases in Saudi Arabia between the Iraq wars, U.S. forces probably create more unrestthan they prevent. Our force deployments can also generate instability by prompting states to develop nuclear weapons. Even when wars occur, their economic impact is likely to be limited here.8 By linking markets, globalization provides supply alternatives for the goods we consume, including oil. If political upheaval disrupts supply in one location, suppliers elsewhere will take our orders. Prices may increase, but markets adjust. That makes American consumers less dependent on any particular supply source, undermining the claim that we need to use force to prevent unrest in supplier nations or secure trade routes.9 Part of the confusion about the value of hegemony comes from misunderstanding the Cold War. People tend to assume, falsely, that our activist foreign policy, with troops forward supporting allies, not only caused the Soviet Union's collapse but is obviously a good thing even without such a rival. Forgotten is the sensible notion that alliances are a necessary evil occasionally tolerated to balance a particularly threatening enemy. The main justification for creating our Cold War alliances was the fear that Communist nations could conquer or capture by insurrection the industrial centers in Western Europe and Japan and then harness enough of that wealth to threaten us — either directly or by forcing us to become a garrison state at ruinous cost. We kept troops in South Korea after 1953 for fear that the North would otherwise overrun it. But these alliances outlasted the conditions that caused them. During the Cold War, Japan, Western Europe and South Korea grew wealthy enough to defend themselves. We should let them. These alliances heighten our force requirements and threaten to drag us into wars, while providing no obvious benefit. </span></span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Empirically proven </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Geller 99—</span>**Geller and Singer, 99 – *Chair of the Department of Political Science @ Wayne State University (Daniel S and Joel David, Nations at war: a scientific study of international conflict, p. 116-117) 

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Hopf </span></span>(1991) and Levy (1984) <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">examine </span></span>the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">frequency, magnitude and severity of wars using polarity</span></span> (Hopf) and “system size” (Levy) as predictors. Hopf’s database includes warfare in the European subsystems for the restricted temporal period of 1495–1559. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The system is classified as multipolar</span></span> for the years 1495–1520 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and </span></span>as <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">bipolar </span></span>for the years 1521–1559. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Hopf reports </span></span>that the amount of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">warfare during those two periods was </span></span>essentially <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">equivalent</span></span>. He concludes that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">polarity <span style="border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 0in;">has little relationship</span> to </span></span>patterns of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">war for the </span></span>historical <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">period </span></span>under examination<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. Levy </span></span>(1984) <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">explores </span></span>a <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">possible linear association between the number of great powers </span></span>(system size) <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and war </span></span>for the extended temporal span of 1495 – 1974<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. His findings coincide with</span></span> those of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Hopf</span></span>; he reports that the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">frequency, magnitude and severity of war</span></span> in the international system <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is unrelated to the number of major powers in the system. </span></span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Prefer our evidence </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Walt 9—</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">prof of international affairs, Harvard. PhD in pol sci, UC Berkley (Stephen, “The threatmonger's handbook,” 4 May 2009, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/05/04/the_threat_mongers_handbook, AMiles) </span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">The United States has the world's largest economy (so far), and the world's most powerful conventional military forces. It spends about as much on national security than the rest of the world combined, and nearly nine times more than the No. 2 power (China). It has several thousand operational nuclear weapons, each substantially more powerful than the bombs that destroyed Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945. America is further protected from conventional military attack by two enormous oceanic moats, there no great powers in the Western hemisphere, and it hasn’t been invaded since the War of 1812. (A few southerners may want to challenge that last statement, but I'm not going to get into that). 9/11 reminded us American security is not absolute, of course, and the strategic advantages I just outlined are no defense against climate change, pandemic disease, or financial collapse. But surely the United States is about as secure as any great power in modern history. Yet Americans continue to fret about national security, continue to spend far more on national security than any other country does, and continue to believe that our way of life will be imperiled if we do not confront an array of much weaker foes on virtually every continent. One reason Americans exaggerate security fears is the existence of an extensive cottage industry of professional threatmongers, who deploy a well-honed array of arguments to convince us that we are in fact in grave danger. (The United States is hardly the only country that does this, of course, but the phenomenon is more evident here because its overall strategic position is so favorable). Debunking these claims is easier once you know the basics, so I hereby offer as a public service: The Threatmonger's Handbook: (Or, How to Scare Your Fellow Citizens for Fun and Profit.) Rule #1: Emphasize that small decisions can mark the difference between victory or defeat. The core logic of threatmongering depends on convincing others that world is highly elastic; that very small policy changes will have dramatic effects on one’s overall position. Threatmongers argue that cancelling some weapons system or failing to take action against some minor danger may leave you vulnerable to a devastating attack. At the same time, spending just a bit more or taking aggressive action now will cause potential threats to dissipate and guarantee security for years to come. Rule #2: "Everything is connected." This principle is a corollary to Rule #1: a good threatmonger wants to convince you that events in one area will have far-reaching effects everywhere else. They portray a world where credibility is fragile, where dominos fall easily and where one's allies will be quick to jump on the enemy's bandwagon after a single setback. By the same logic, threatmongers promise that success in one place will quickly lead to further triumphs elsewhere. During the Vietnam War, threatmongers predicted that defeat there would lead to dominos falling all across Southeast Asia and undermine U.S. alliances all over the world (which of course didn't happen). More recently, the architects of the Iraq war argued that toppling Saddam would trigger a wave of democratic transformations across the Middle East and put dictators on notice elsewhere. In a world where everything is connected to everything else, there are no minor problems and nothing can be safely ignored. Rule #3: Emphasize threats that are inherently impossible to measure. This principle was the essence of McCarthyism: his claim that communists were infiltrating the U.S. government was impossible to disprove with 100 percent confidence, and it made many Americans fear that a vast network of subversives were secretly at work across the entire country. The problem is that there's no way to know for certain if his accusations were true or not: that flag-waving Boy Scout next door might have been an especially cunning Marxist-Leninist with a truly effective disguise. Today, threatmongers try to scare us by portraying all Muslims as potential subversives, and by suggesting that Western civilization itself is under siege from immigration, the internet, cyberterrorism, or some other covert form of infiltration. And don't forget Rule 3A: when an alleged threat is easy to measure and not really that serious, just classify the information so that nobody finds out. Rule #4: Portray allies as a liability rather than as an asset. States normally seek allies in order to pool their assets and make both more secure. Threatmongers see this differently: the more allies you have, the more interests that must be protected and the greater your security requirements actually become. Logically, U.S. defense requirements should be lower because we are allied to some of the world's wealthiest and well-armed states. But the logic of threatmongering suggests the opposite conclusion: as the United States recruits an ever-increasing network of allies, it has to defend more and more places and must therefore worry about an ever-widening array of problems. Rule #5: Whenever possible, depict opponents as part of a strong and highly cohesive movement, and preferably one united by strong ideological convictions. This is the flip side of Rule #4: our allies are weak and feckless, but our opponents are always strong, cunning, resolute, and well-organized. During the Cold War, the enemy was "monolithic communism," an image that downplayed the deep schisms within the communist world. Under Bill Clinton, the danger was a motley collection of "rogue states" whose combined capabilities were a tiny fraction of our own and who weren't even in cahoots with one another. George W. Bush went one step further, and placed Saddam Hussein's Iraq, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and North Korea in a mythical "axis of evil." Today, other threatmongers rail about the looming danger of "Islamofascism," thereby suggesting that all Islamic groups are part of some vast and well-organized conspiracy. In all these cases, the same basic principle is used to make dangers look bigger than they really are. Rule #6: "We must act now!" To a skilled threatmonger, trends are always against us and time is always short. If we do not act soon, we are told, the window of opportunity will close and our security will be compromised forever. This is the mindset that drove Germany's decision to provoke World War I and led the Bush administration to attack Iran in 2003, and those now favor military action against Iran invoke essentially the same logic. They've forgotten Bismarck's warning: preventive war "is committing suicide for fear of death." Rule #7: Always describe opponents as irrational, unalterably aggressive, and impossible to deter. If the enemy is aggressive, irrational, and willing to run great risks, then it will take overwhelming superiority to deter them and even that may not be enough. In fact, if the adversary is as nasty as the threatmongers say, then deterrence or containment probably won't work and war is probably inevitable. And if war is going to occur sooner or later, we should look for a favorable opportunity to take them out first. Kenneth Pollock of the Brookings Institution used Rule #7 to perfection in his 2002 book The Threatening Storm, thereby helping convince potentially skeptical liberals that invading Iraq was a good idea. Rule #8: When it comes to national security, there is no such thing as opportunity costs. The goal of threatmongering is to convince a country to spend more money on defense or to undertake more aggressive actions in the name of national security. Leaders or citizens may object if they think such a policy might entail real costs or require genuine tradeoffs, so skilled threatmongers often argue that increased military spending will be cost-free (for example, by claiming it will stimulate the economy and create jobs), or by suggesting that military action in one arena will produce lots of positive externalities elsewhere (see Rule #2). At the same time, they will downplay the possibility that military action lead to a costly quagmire or make it impossible to take action elsewhere (see under: Iraq). Rule #9: Assume that opponents are able to do anything they say they want to do. One easy way to scare people is to look at your enemies' wildest dreams and assume that they have the capacity to actually bring them about. During the Cold War, threatmongers studied Soviet military writings and argued that the most fantastic Soviet battle plans were an accurate measure of what the Red Army could actually accomplish, even though there were sound military reasons to reject that assessment. Or they took the rabble-rousing rhetoric of revolutionary leaders at face value and assumed that it would be as easy to spread revolution as these radicals thought. Today, threatmongers tell us that Osama bin Laden wants to topple governments throughout the Islamic world and eventually restore the medieval caliphate, even though he is as likely to achieve that goal as I am to win the Wimbledon singles title or make the finals on American Idol. It obviously makes sense to know what an adversary’s objective might be, but only a dedicated threatmonger equates desires with actual capabilities. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Doesn’t solve war—Friedman says that leadership has no effect on conflict—</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">withdrawal will result in stable regional power balances—the Geller evidence cites broad historical analysis and says that polarity has no effect on the magnitude or frequency of wars—their ev is based on outdated Cold War mindsets </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Mastanduno 9</span>** – Professor of Government at Dartmouth (Michael, World Politics 61, No. 1, Ebsco) 

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">During the cold war</span></span> the United States dictated the terms of adjustment. It derived the necessary leverage because it provided for the security of its economic partners and because <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">there were no viable alternatives</span></span> to an economic order centered on the United States. After the cold war the outcome of adjustment struggles is less certain because the United States is no longer in a position to dictate the terms. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U</span></span>nited States, notwithstanding its preponderant power, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">no longer enjoys the same type of security leverage</span></span> it once possessed, and the very success of the U.S.-centered world economy has afforded America’s supporters a greater range of international and domestic economic options. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The claim</span></span> that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is unipolar is a statement about its</span></span> cumulative <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">economic, military,</span></span> and other <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">capabilities</span></span>.1 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">But preponderant capabilities</span></span> across the board <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">do not guarantee effective influence</span></span> in any given arena. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U.S. dominance</span></span> in the international security arena <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">no longer translates into effective leverage</span></span> in the international economic arena. And although the United States remains a dominant international economic player in absolute terms, after the cold war it has found itself more vulnerable and constrained than it was during the golden economic era after World War II. It faces rising economic challengers with their own agendas and with greater discretion in international economic policy than America’s cold war allies had enjoyed. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">may continue to act its own way, but </span></span>it <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">can no longer count on getting its own way. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Empirically proven </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kober 10</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—Research Fellow in Foreign Policy Studies, Cato. PhD, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts. (Stanley, The Deterrence Illusion, 13 June 2010, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11898, AMiles) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">And just like the situation at the beginning of the last century, deterrence is not working. Much is made, for example, of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) invoking Article V — the famous "three musketeers" pledge that an attack on one member is to be considered as an attack on all — following the terrorist attacks of September 11. But the United States is the most powerful member of NATO by far. Indeed, in 2001, it was widely considered to be a hegemon, a hyperpower. Other countries wanted to be in NATO because they felt an American guarantee would provide security. And yet it was the US that was attacked. This failure of deterrence has not received the attention it deserves. It is, after all, not unique. The North Vietnamese were not deterred by the American guarantee to South Vietnam. Similarly, Hezbollah was not deterred in Lebanon in the 1980s, and American forces were assaulted in Somalia. What has been going wrong? The successful deterrence of the superpowers during the cold war led to the belief that if such powerful countries could be deterred, then lesser powers should fall into line when confronted with an overwhelmingly powerful adversary. It is plausible, but it may be too rational. For all their ideological differences, the US and the Soviet Union observed red lines during the cold war. There were crises — Berlin, Cuba, to name a couple — but these did not touch on emotional issues or vital interests, so that compromise and retreat were possible. Indeed, what we may have missed in the west is the importance of retreat in Soviet ideology. "Victory is impossible unless [the revolutionary parties] have learned both how to attack and how to retreat properly," Lenin wrote in Left-Wing Communism: An Infantile Disorder. When the Soviets retreated, the US took the credit. Deterrence worked. But what if retreat was part of the plan all along? What if, in other words, the Soviet Union was the exception rather than the rule? That question is more urgent because, in the post-cold war world, the US has expanded its security guarantees, even as its enemies show they are not impressed. The Iraqi insurgents were not intimidated by President Bush's challenge to "bring 'em on". The Taliban have made an extraordinary comeback from oblivion and show no respect for American power. North Korea is demonstrating increasing belligerence. And yet the US keeps emphasising security through alliances. "We believe that there are certain commitments, as we saw in a bipartisan basis to NATO, that need to be embedded in the DNA of American foreign policy," secretary of state Hillary Clinton affirmed in introducing the new National Security Strategy. But that was the reason the US was in Vietnam. It had a bipartisan commitment to South Vietnam under the Southeast Asia Treaty Organisation, reaffirmed through the Tonkin Gulf Resolution, which passed Congress with only two dissenting votes. It didn't work, and found its commitments were not embedded in its DNA. Americans turned against the war, Secretary Clinton among them. The great powers could not guarantee peace in Europe a century ago, and the US could not guarantee it in Asia a half-century ago. </span></span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Regional powers fill in </span>**
**Sapolsky 97** – Prof PolSci, MIT Security Studies Program (Harvey and Daryl Press – Prof Government, Dartmouth – and Eugene Gholz – Research Associate, MIT Security Studies Program, “Come Home, America”, International Security 21.4, jstor, AG) 

In today's world, disengagement will not cause great power war, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and </span></span>continued <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">engagement will not</span></span> reliably <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">prevent it</span></span>. In some circumstances, engagement may actually increase the likelihood of conflict. Second, selective engagers overstate the costs of distant wars and seriously understate the costs and risks of their strategies. Overseas deployments require a large force structure. Even worse, selective engagement will ensure that when a future great power war erupts, the United States will be in the thick of things. Although distant great power wars are bad for America, the only sure path to ruin is to step in the middle of a faraway fight. Selective engagers overstate America's effect on the likelihood of future great power wars. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There is little reason to believe that withdrawal</span></span> from Europe or Asia <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would lead to deterrence failures</span></span>. With or without a forward U.S. presence, America's major allies have sufficient military strength to deter any potential aggressors. Conflict is far more likely to erupt from a sequence described in the spiral model. The danger of spirals leading to war in East Asia is remote. Spirals happen when states, seeking security, frighten their neighbors. The risk of spirals is great when offense is easier than defense, because any country's attempt to achieve security will give it an offensive capability against its neighbors. The neighbors' attempts to eliminate the vulnerability give them fleeting offensive capabilities and tempt them to launch preventive war. 71 But <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Asia</span></span>, as discussed earlier, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is blessed with</span></span> inherent <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">defensive advantages</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Japan and Taiwan are islands</span></span>, which makes them very difficult to invade. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China has a long </span></span>land <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">border</span></span> with <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Russia</span></span>, but <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">enjoys the </span></span>protection of the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">East China Sea</span></span>, which stands between it and Japan. The expanse of Siberia gives Russia, its ever-trusted ally, strategic depth. South Korea benefits from mountainous terrain which would channel an attacking force from the north. Offense is difficult in East Asia, so spirals should not be acute. In fact, no other region in which great powers interact offers more defensive advantage than East Asia. The prospect for spirals is greater in Europe, but continued U.S. engagement does not reduce that danger; rather, it exacerbates the risk. A West European military union, controlling more than 21 percent of the world's GDP, may worry Russia. But NATO, with 44 percent of the world's GDP, is far more threatening, especially if it expands eastward. The more NATO frightens Russia, the more likely it is that Russia will turn dangerously nationalist, redirect its economy toward the military, and try to re-absorb its old buffer states.72 But if the U.S. military were to withdraw from Europe, even Germany, Europe's strongest advocate for NATO expansion, might become less enthusiastic, because it would be German rather than American troops standing guard on the new borders. Some advocates of selective engagement point to the past fifty years as evidence that America's forward military presence reduces the chance of war. The Cold War's great power peace, however, was overdetermined. Nuclear weapons brought a powerful restraining influence.73 Furthermore, throughout the Cold War, European and Asian powers had a common foe which encouraged them to cooperate. After an American withdrawal, the Japanese, Koreans, and Russians would still have to worry about China; the Europeans would still need to keep an eye on Russia. These threats can be managed without U.S. assistance, and the challenge will encourage European and Asian regional cooperation. 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Power projection fails </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Cascio</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">7</span>**—degrees in history and pol sci (Jamais, 5/2, Lost Hegemon (pt 2): The End of Conventional War, http://www.openthefuture.com/2007/05/the_lost_hegemon_pt_2_the_end.html, AG)

Few would dispute that the American military is, far and away, the most powerful conventional armed force on the planet, even as depleted as it is by the Iraq war. At the same time, few would dispute that this military force is, and by all signs will continue to be, insufficient to quell the insurgency in Iraq. While this particular result has dramatic implications for the global position of the US, as well as for the political and economic future of the region (and the world), the larger meaning of this conflict is only beginning to become clear: conventional militaries, as a means of compelling a desired behavior on the part of a national populace, have become obsolete. The question now is how long it will take political leaders to recognize this fact, and adapt to it. The reasons for this obsolescence are clear: conventional military forces appear to be unable to defeat a networked insurgency, which combines the information age's distributed communication and rapid learning with the traditional guerilla's invisibility (by being indistinguishable from the populace) and low support needs. It's not just the American experience in Iraq (and, not as widely discussed, Afghanistan) that tells us this; Israel's latest war in Lebanon leads us to the same conclusion, and even the Soviet Union's experience in Afghanistan and America's war in Vietnam underline this same point. Insurgencies have always been hard to defeat with conventional forces, but the "open source warfare" model, where tactics can be learned, tested and communicated both formally and informally across a distributed network of guerillas, poses an effectively impossible challenge for conventional militaries.

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Be skeptical of their claims </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Layne 6—</span>**pol sci prof, A&M (Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present, Cornell University Press, p. 185-186)

<span style="tab-stops: .25in;">The fundamental problem with all these scenarios, both historical and hypothetical, is that distant peer competitors have never been able to do the one thing they would need to do to challenge the United States in its own neighborhood: move freely across the sea. Since the beginning of the twentieth century, the United States has been able to generate more than enough naval (and strategic air) power to stop dead in the water any distant rival that might attempt to take on the United States over here. And, if anything, since 1945 nuclear weapons have made America's regional primacy all but unassailable.83 Rather than detracting from U.S. security, nuclear weapons enhanced it significantly. These <span style="border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 0in;">overblown notions</span> of American vulnerability to a Eurasian hegemon reflect an underlying worldview shared by U.S. policy-makers and popularized by Wilson and FDR: that in the modern world, the United States lives perpetually under the shadow of war. This grand strategic narrative rests on two key assumptions. First, because of advances in modern military technology, others can acquire the means to inflict grave damage on the United States. Second, the world is shrinking. As a result, the argument goes, the United States itself is at risk and must involve itself in the security affairs of distant regions to ward off threats to the American homeland. These arguments have a very familiar ring, because they have been invoked by the Bush II administration to justify expanding the war on terror and the invasion of Iraq. Although a straight line connects the administration's grand strategic narrative with those of Wilson and FDR, the conception of American security embodied in these narratives always has been based on a <span style="border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 0in;">deeply flawed premise</span>. For, far from shrinking the world grand strategically, for the United States, modern weaponry naval and strategic airpower, intercontinental delivery systems, and nuclear weapons has widened it. Proponents of offshore balancing are sensitive to the fact that the threat <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">posed </span></span>by potential Eurasian hegemons has often been <span style="border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 0in;">exaggerated deliberately</span> and used as a pretext for intervening in conflicts where America's security clearly has not been at risk. When policymakers use arguments about technology and a shrinking world to warn of American vulnerability, they are, as Michael S. Sherry notes, doing a lot more than simply depicting reality. They are trying to shape public perceptions and to create a new reality, which is why this narrative of U.S. national security is "an ideological construction, not merely a perceptual reaction."84 To be blunt, U.S. officials often have invoked the specter of a Eurasian hegemon to rationalize the pursuit of America's own hegemonic, Open Door-driven ambitions. Although it is always possible that the threat of a Eurasian hegemon justifiably might compel U.S. intervention, whenever this argument is made to justify a specific intervention, red lights should flash and it should be scrutinized very carefully, because U.S. officials have cried wolf way too many times in the past.</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Their arguments are hype </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Sapolsky 6—</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">public policy, MIT—Ben Friedman (Harvey, You Never Know(ism), http://www.comw.org/qdr/fulltext/06friedman.pdf, AMiles) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There is a new enemy stalking the United States. No one can say what it is. Some call it uncertainty. We call it You Never Know. We know You Never Know is dangerous, but it is hard to say how dangerous. That is the problem. You never know. You Never Know is a powerful enemy. It cannot be defeated. Think you have a handle on uncertainty? Are you sure? You never know. Planning against You Never Know is difficult. What weapons do you buy to fight it? What organizations do you fund? What plans do you make? The answer tends to be whatever you already have. That is the catch. You Never Know is phony. It is an antidote for another threat: the threat of no threats. The threat of no threats is not a threat to most of us, who are glad to go unthreatened. But no threats is a threat to those who work to protect us from threats, the military services, defense contractors, defense think tanks, Congress, foreign policy pundits, even security studies programs. Without plausible threats to worry us, they champion merely possible ones by saying, essentially, “You never know.” The real threat is You Never Knowism — the argument that we have to invest heavily to protect ourselves against You Never Know — and the culture of threat this reasoning defends; the celebration of dangers; the concept that the only thing to fear is uncertainty and the unknown, rather than fear itself. You Never Know arguments justify excessive domestic policing, waste, and empire. While it is prudent to prepare for dangers, it is also prudent to recognize the cost of excessive prudence. By focusing on possibility, by taking a precautionary approach to national security, we frighten ourselves and strip resources from more probable threats. You Never Knowism is a large threat because You Never Know has such important friends. Those who need the threat of You Never Know guide public opinion about danger. So we all learn to fear You Never Know. But no one worries us about You Never Knowism. That is the goal of this essay — to sound the alarm against You Never Knowism. It seems futile, but it could work. You never know. The Nature of You Never Knowism The dirty secret of American national security politics is that we are safe. Americans might be the most secure people in history. But we worry. We are told that our enemies may be organizing our destruction in pockets of disorder, which are growing. We are taught that the world is chaotic, awash in civil war and terrorism, which could strike us “any place, any place with virtually any weapon.”1 We hear that our satellites are ripe for attack, that pirates prey on our shipping, that Iran’s nuclear weapons portend disaster, and that China is a growing threat. At base, however, most arguments claiming America’s insecurity rely on **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">implausible scenarios</span>**.2 The futures these arguments fear are not probable but possible. It is possibility that justifies the defenses they advocate. Because you cannot know for certain the odds of this possible danger, this logic says, you must prepare for it. History teaches nations extreme caution. In other words, you never know. You never know what the Chinese will do if their navy and nuclear arsenal get too big. Although it seems unlikely that Kim Jong Il would fire a missile at the United States — never mind its range — and invite the destruction of his vicious little kingdom, you never know. Terrorists probably will not attack Warren, Vermont, or Cambridge, for that matter, but they might; you never know. So prepare. You Never Knowism is the guiding ethos of U.S. national security. National security planning documents are rife with it. They evoke a world of swirling uncertainty and rising complexity, a time of unprecedented change, where predictions are impossible but dangers great. They claim that the simple Soviet threat has been replaced by more various and irrational ones, which require capabilities-based planning — building military forces with no particular foe in mind. The Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR), the defense planning document drafted every four years to guide U.S. defense spending, is only the latest example. Following the National Security Strategy (2002), the National Military Strategy (2004), and the National Defense Strategy (2005), the Review, released in February, states that the United States now faces a hostile mix of terrorists, failed states that we must order, insurgencies, rogue states with missiles, and large militaries like China’s.3 Like these prior strategy documents, the QDR does not bother to estimate how probable these threats are and decide to focus on one or another on that basis. It contends simply that “managing risks” compels us to prepare for all of them. It then recommends that we retain the weapons and forces we have, with a few tweaks. The Review adopts the President’s preventive war doctrine, first articulated in the National Security Strategy, but applies the doctrine more generally, arguing that preventive action is now the cornerstone of U.S. national security strategy; that we must act to head off risks before they materialize, through attack, military-to-military support, or stabilization missions.4 You Never Knowism earns its name from its insistence on planning around what we do not know rather than what we do. It is analysis that makes its failure to figure anything out its main tenet. You Never Knowism claims you can prepare for uncertainty itself. It also **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">refuses to justify plans based on probability </span>**and embraces possibility as the tool of argument. The essential element of You Never Knowism is its assumption that it is prudent to act at considerable cost to head off unlikely contingencies. You Never Knowism is wrong, dishonest, and dangerous. It is wrong because it overestimates today’s uncertainty and danger. It is dishonest because it is post-facto justification for a political outcome. It is dangerous because it ignores the large risks of chasing small dangers. Certainty and Safety The Cold War was also full of uncertainty. There was plenty we did not know about Soviet intentions. We did not know how to deploy defense dollars to plan against the threat. We did not agree what weapons to buy or what plans to make. We did not know which insurgencies to fight or how to successfully predict the future. After all, almost no one predicted the end of the Cold War. Instead, experts constantly predicted disaster of one kind or another. When it did end, we found that we had vastly overspent, that the Soviet Union was more a house of cards than a genuine superpower. The claim that the world is becoming more uncertain is one of those trendy notions that we are meant to accept uncritically. In fact, the world is not a roulette wheel of WMDs, insurgents, terrorists, and hostile states, but a stable place, with a few known threats. By any historical measure, Americans are particularly safe. And we live in an especially safe neighborhood. The sorts of security threats that plagued nations since their invention, indeed that necessitated their creation — invasion and civil war — are unthinkable here. Peace and order are spreading. Gross domestic products continue to rise, facilitating government authority in more corners of the earth.5 Both inter-state war and civil war are in decline.6 </span></span>

===<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">No Transition Wars</span></span>=== 



<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">No transition wars </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Hass 10</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—president, CFR. DPhil, Oxford (Richard, The Weakest Link, http://www.newsweek.com/2010/02/25/the-weakest-link.html, AMiles) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">That we should care so much about weak states marks a major change. Much of 20th-century history was driven by the actions of strong states—the attempts by Germany, Japan, and, in the century's second half, the Soviet Union to establish global primacy, and the corresponding efforts of the United States and a shifting coalition of partners to resist. Those struggles produced two world wars and a Cold War. In the 21st century the principal threat to the global order will not be a push for dominance by any great power. For one thing, today's great powers are not all that great: Russia has a one-dimensional economy and is hobbled by corruption and a shrinking population; China is constrained by its enormous population and a top-heavy political system. Just as important, China and the other major or rising powers seek less to overthrow the existing global order than to shape it. They are more interested in integration than in revolution. Instead, the central challenge will be posed by weak states—Pakistan, Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, Haiti, Mexico, Congo, and others. What they have in common (in addition to the fact that many, like Iraq, are located in the greater Middle East) are governments that lack the capacity, the will, or both to rule. They are unable to exercise what is expected of sovereign governments—namely, control over what goes on within their own territory. In the past, this would have been mostly a humanitarian concern. But as we all know, thanks to globalization, people and things travel. Terrorists, diseases, illegal migrants, weapons of mass destruction—for all of them, international boundaries are often little more than formalities. On the other hand, we cannot resolve these problems solely by using the U.S. military. As we learned in Iraq, replacing governments is easier sought than done, and in many cases there is no clear—much less preferable—alternative to the current authority. Even in a supporting role, foreign soldiers can provoke a nationalist backlash against the government they're trying to bolster, making the weak-state problem even worse. Nor is it always clear that doing more militarily will result in lasting improvements that are commensurate with the investment in blood and treasure. This could well be America's fate in Afghanistan. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">No transition wars—</span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Haas says that no rising power has the will or ability to violently overturn the system—they would rather integrate peacefully into it—China and Russia face structural problems that prevent aggression—even if wars did occur, they wouldn’t escalate </span>**
<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Haas 8</span></span> - Richard (president of the Council on Foreign Relations, former director of policy planning for the Department of State, former vice president and director of foreign policy studies at the Brookings Institution, the Sol M. Linowitz visiting professor of international studies at Hamilton College, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a lecturer in public policy at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, and a research associate at the International Institute for Strategic Studies) April <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">2008</span></span> “Ask the Expert: What Comes After Unipolarity?” http://www.cfr.org/publication/16063/ask_the_expert.html

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Does a non polar world increase</span></span> or reduce <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the chances of another world war</span></span>? <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Will</span></span> nuclear <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">deterrence continue to prevent a large scale conflict</span></span>? Sivananda Rajaram, UK Richard Haass: I believe <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the chance of a world war</span></span>, i.e., one involving the major powers of the day, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is remote and likely to stay that way</span></span>. This reflects more than anything else the absence of disputes or goals that could lead to such a conflict. Nuclear deterrence might be a contributing factor in the sense that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">no conceivable dispute among the major powers would justify any use of nuclear weapons,</span></span> but again, I believe <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the fundamental reason great power relations are relatively good is that all hold a stake in sustaining an international order that supports trade and financial flows and avoids large-scale conflict. The danger in a nonpolar world is not global conflict</span></span> as we feared during the Cold War <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">but smaller </span></span>but still highly costly <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">conflicts</span></span> involving terrorist groups, militias, rogue states, etc. 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Historical examples are irrelevant </span>**
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Pieterse 8</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> – professor in global sociology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, specializes in globalization (Jan Nederveen, Future, //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Globalization the next round: Sociological perspectives</span>//, Lexis) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The general possibilities in relation to hegemony are continued American hegemony, hegemonic rivalry, hegemonic transition and multipolarity. The previous episode of hegemonic decline at the turn of the nineteenth century took the form of wars of hegemonic rivalry culminating in hegemonic transition. The current transition looks to be structurally different from the previous episode. Rather than hegemonic rivalry, we are witnessing global realignments toward growing multipolarity. Thus, what is at issue is not just a decline of (American) hegemony and rise of (Asian) hegemony, but a more complex field. </span></span>

==<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Prolif</span></span>== 
===Iran=== 


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Iranian prolif inevitable </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Lindsay 10</span>**—senior vice president, director of studies, and Maurice R. Greenberg Chair at the Council on Foreign Relation. Former professor of political science at the University of Iowa. A.B. in economics and political science (highest distinction, highest honors) from the University of Michigan and an M.A., M. Phil., and Ph.D. from Yale University (After Iran Gets the Bomb, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66032/james-m-lindsay-and-ray-takeyh/after-iran-gets-the-bomb, AMiles) 

The Islamic Republic of <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Iran is determined </span></span>to become the world's tenth nuclear power.<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> It is defying</span></span> its <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">international obligations and resisting</span></span> concerted diplomatic <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">pressure to stop</span></span> it from <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">enriching uranium</span></span>. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It</span></span> has flouted several UN Security Council resolutions directing it to suspend enrichment and has <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">refused to </span></span>fully <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">explain its nuclear activities</span></span> to the International Atomic Energy Agency. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Even a successful military strike against Iran's nuclear facilities would delay Iran's program by only a few years,</span></span> and it would almost certainly harden Tehran's determination to go nuclear. The ongoing political unrest in Iran could topple the regime, leading to fundamental changes in Tehran's foreign policy and ending its pursuit of nuclear weapons. But that is an outcome that cannot be assumed. If Iran's nuclear program continues to progress at its current rate, T<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">e</span></span>hran <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">could have the nuclear material needed to build a bomb before </span></span>U.S. President Barack <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama's current term in office expires</span></span>.

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Garamond;">Israel will not first strike</span>**</span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Garamond;"> Sadr 5</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Garamond;"> – PhD Candidate @ Univ Maryland in Poli Sci (El, The Impact of Iran’s Nuclearization on Israel, Middle East Policy 12.2, Wiley Interscience, AG) </span></span>

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">Despite Israel’s strategically understandable claims regarding its ability to preempt Iranian nuclearization through unilateral military action, many experts foresee complications that make a singlestrike success extremely difficult if not impossible.5 Furthermore, even if Iran’s nuclear capabilities were eliminated or significantly impaired in such an attack, the military and political ramifications for Israel and its allies are likely to be **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">much more costly</span>** than they were in 1981.6 Thus, it is necessary to consider whether the costs and opportunities associated with the emergence of a nuclear Iran might not be more tolerable than those associated with military action. </span>

----
===<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">North Korea</span></span>=== 



<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">North Korea can be deterred – no impact </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">O’Neil 7</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—Snr lecturer, IR, Flinders U, Australia (Andrew, Nuclear proliferation in Northeast Asia: the quest for security, 73-6, AMiles) </span></span>


<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Rather than continuing to focus on the increasingly meager "carrot and stick" policy options for "rolling back" North Korea's nuclear program, attention needs to shift toward how best to manage North Korea's nuclear weapons capability as a strategic fact of life. The well-worn debate between those who advocate "tough" measures to force Pyongyang to disarm and those who propose "incentives" to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear capability ignores the compelling evidence that points to Pyongyang's determination to hold on to its emerging nuclear stockpile. Having run the gauntlet of international opprobrium, increased isolation, and the ongoing specter of U.S. preemptive military action, it is highly unlikely that Pyongyang will decide to capitulate to external pressure in the foreseeable future. While of course possible, this latter scenario is extremely remote. There can be little doubt that the North Korean regime is aware that a united international front against its nuclear program will remain a pipe dream for as long as the major powers have competing strategic and geopolitical interests in Northeast Asia. The Six-Party Talks—having achieved nothing in the way of substantive outcomes—have undoubtedly been seen in Pyongyang as a useful way to accentuate the existing divisions between the procontainment position of the United States and Japan on the one side, and the proengagement stance of China, South Korea, and Russia on the other.82 A closer assessment of the DPRK's evolving national strategy and its motives for going nuclear suggests that, rather than representing an aggressive endeavor to coerce regional neighbors, North Korea's acquisition of nuclear weapons owes more to its deep-seated strategic isolation. One theme, above all, emerges from the analysis of the preceding section of this chapter: North Korea’s national strategy and its motives for acquiring nuclear weapons are essentially defensive in nature. Regime preservation and national survival are the paramount goals of the DPRK. These objectives are status quo-oriented. They are, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">by definition, incompatible with the high-risk strategy of using nuclear weapons against regional neighbors</span>** and the United States. There is no evidence to conclude that North Korean elites are irrational and willing to take decisions inimical to their broader goal of regime survival. For as long as Washington continues to extend its nuclear umbrella to allies in Northeast Asia, the Pyongyang regime will appreciate that any use of nuclear weapons on its part would precipitate war with the United States and its allies and inevitably lead to its rapid demise.8* Notwithstanding the likelihood that the United States will continue gradually withdrawing major ground force elements from South Korea and Japan, Washington has made it clear that it intends to maintain the presence of its air and naval strike platforms in the Asia-Pacific, many of which are configured with nuclear-capable systems.84 While the United States no longer deploys tactical nuclear weapons in South Korea, and although the U.S. Navy has removed nuclear weapons from its surface fleet, American submarines traversing the Pacific Ocean are armed with a nuclear cruise missile capability and B-52s stationed in Guam in the Pacific remain nuclear capable.8^ These theater force elements could be supplemented by nuclear-capable systems on the continental United States, including the B-2 bomber force and America's large ICBM arsenal. Against this background, the chances of North Korea being deterred from using (or even seriously brandishing) nuclear weapons in Northeast Asia are greater than many within the policy and academic community have conceded. Despite previous statements by the Bush administration alleging that the Pyongyang regime is "evil" and "unbalanced" in its behavior, senior U.S. officials, including the Secretary of State, have signaled their belief that North Korea will remain deterred at the nuclear level for as long as the United States maintains a credible strategic presence in Northeast Asia.86 There are three additional conditions that strengthen the prospects for a stable system of nuclear deterrence between North Korea and the United States. The first, and the most noteworthy, is the existing template of conventional deterrence on the Korean peninsula. Despite ominous predictions following the Korean War armistice of 1953, there has been no armed conflict on the peninsula for more than half a century. As David Kang points out, the reason for this is disarmingly straightforward: "The peninsula has been stable for fifty years because deterrence has been clear and unambiguous."8' Even during the 1960s and 1970s, a period in which many observers credited Pyongyang with having a very good chance of success in reunifying the peninsula by force, North Korea remained deterred from attacking the South. While there can be little doubt that the U.S. nuclear deterrent was a factor, it is also likely that the regime in Pyongyang judged the massive costs of any invasion (illuminated brutally between 1950-53) as nullifying any potential gains. If anything, this deterrence logic has probably been strengthened in the eyes of the DPRK leadership over the last decade or so in the context of the relative decline of North Korea's conventional force capabilities. Given that North Korea has been deterred consistently at the conventional level since 1953, there are few grounds for assuming that Pyongyang would behave any differently at the nuclear level. The point to stress is that conventional deterrence provides a fairly reliable measure of how North Korea would behave at the nuclear level. At both levels, the regime must realize that any breakdown in deterrence would in all likelihood lead to war, defeat, and, ultimately, its extinction. The second condition is that the United States itself appears to be deterred from striking nuclear targets in North Korea. This is despite the Bush administration's promulgation of the doctrine of preemption in 2002 and the belief in some quarters of the American policy community that North Korea's nuclear capability could eventually pose a tangible threat to the United States mainland if married with an operational ICBM capability. Of course, it is plausible that a future U.S. administration may well decide to reverse this position and attempt to nullify Pyongyang's nuclear capability through the use of force. But even those who see this as increasingly likely in the context of growing support within the United States for regime change in North Korea estimate that the chances of "such an attack being ordered in the next few years is perhaps something between 10 percent and 30 percent."88 Washington's evident reluctance to carry out preventive strikes against nuclear targets in North Korea, despite North Korea's withdrawal from the NPT and its decision to carry out a nuclear test, stems from two reasons. The first is that military strikes, no matter how carefully tailored to reassure the regime in Pyongyang that they did not represent the first phase of a full-scale invasion, would almost certainly trigger large-scale North Korean retaliation against South Korea. In the unlikely event that the regime believed U.S. reassurances, it would probably not accept them. Faced with the prospect of its highly prized nuclear inventory being neutralized. North Korea's senior elites would seek to extract a heavy price. The DPRK's massive artillery and rocket forces within short range of Seoul would make this a relatively straightforward option. The second reason why the United States remains deterred from undertaking strike missions inside the DPRK is a realization that American air assets and special operations forces may not be able to capture or destroy North Korea's nuclear capabilities before Pyongyang has an opportunity to use them against a range of possible targets in South Korea and Japan. In these circumstances, American action would have the effect of exposing its regional allies to the very threat it had sought to negate. The third condition that bolsters the prospects for deterrence on the Korean peninsula is that regional countries have had some time to get used to the idea (if not the reality) of a nuclear-armed North Korea. For Japan and South Korea, the prospect of dealing with a nuclear DPRK may not be particularly appealing, but nor is it a bolt from the blue. States in Northeast Asia have been aware for some time that North Korea has been seeking (and gradually acquiring) nuclear weapons and have no doubt factored the scenario of a nuclear-armed DPRK into their strategic planning. A nuclear domino effect in Northeast Asia has been identified in some quarters as a corollary of Pyongyang going nuclear, but such an outcome is by no means preordained. For South Korea, a nuclear-armed DPRK does not pose a new threat as such: for decades Seoul has faced the prospect of massive destruction and loss of life on ROK territory due to North Korea's ability to unleash its prodigious conventional firepower against major South Korean cities. It is hard to see any persuasive rationale for South Korea to follow in the North's nuclear footsteps in a context where Seoul seems less concerned about confronting the DPRK militarily and more intent on preserving the status quo on the peninsula.89 In the case of Japan, which remains a threshold nuclear state, for much of the cold war successive governments in Tokyo were persuaded of the credibility of U.S. guarantees that the latter would use nuclear weapons to defend Japan's territorial sovereignty against the large-scale Soviet nuclear inventory.90 There is no obvious reason why Japan would review the credibility of U.S. extended deterrence guarantees against a comparatively small arsenal as that possessed by North Korea. In the wake of North Korea's nuclear test, senior Japanese officials publicly ruled out responding with a nuclear weapons program of their own following the reaffirmation of U.S. security guarantees.91 </span></span>



**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">North Korean prolif inevitable—nothing will stop them </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Palla 10 </span>**(Stephanie, Experts Pessimistic on North Korea’s Willingness to Give Up Nukes, 25 February 2010, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100225_7481.php, AMiles)


<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Even if North Korea agrees</span></span> to <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">resume negotiations</span></span> on its nuclear program, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it is unlikely to ever </span></span>prove willing to <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">give up</span></span> its <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">strategic deterrent, experts</span></span> on East Asia's role in international security <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">argued </span></span>last week (see GSN, Feb. 24). During a panel discussion at the Hudson Institute, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">speakers addressed the obstacles the U</span></span>nited <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">faces in trying to jump-start </span></span>the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">denuclearization </span></span>process in Pyongyang. Upon taking office in January 2009, the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama </span></span>administration made clear its willingness to engage directly with Pyongyang but also that it <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">wanted to push ahead with the six-party talks</span></span> intended to shutter the regime's nuclear-weapon program. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The North responded with</span></span> an apparent <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">ballistic missile test</span></span> in April and its second nuclear test in May, and was hit with stronger U.N. sanctions for its efforts. Pressure and heated rhetoric between Washington and Pyongyang have eased since then, according to Victor Cha, Korea chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. North Korea has expressed a willingness to participate in denuclearization negotiations with China, Japan, Russia, South Korea and the United States, which were last held in December 2008 - but only after being freed from sanctions and beginning peace talks with the United States. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Experts voiced </span></span>their <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">pessimism over the chance of progress in any talks</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">based on failures by </span></span>Washington and the other <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">governments to deter North Korea from pursuing nuclear weapons even after </span></span>giving Pyongyang <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">numerous incentives</span></span>. "<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">I don't think that this administration or any future administration can promise more</span></span>," <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Cha</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a former negotiator</span></span> to the talks, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">said </span></span>at the Feb. 18 event. Diplomatic efforts by prior U.S. presidential administrations differed in approach but have offered North Korea the same basic incentives going back to the administration of President George H.W. Bush, Cha said. These promises included energy and economic support, normalization of relations between the Pyongyang and Washington, supporting a civilian nuclear energy program in the North, and consideration of a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War. Under the most recent agreement, in 2007, the Bush administration removed North Korea from the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism and joined several other six-party states in providing heavy fuel oil for isolated state. Pyongyang took steps toward disabling its plutonium-producing Yongbyon complex, but never followed through on its pledge to dismantle the site. It has since ejected international monitors and resumed operations there. In previous agreements with the North, the other states "put all the hard requirements down later on in the agreement just so you can get the negotiations going," said Patrick Cronin, senior director of the Asia-Pacific Security Program at the Center for a New American Security. "It's classic confidence building. The problem with that is every time we've done this, it's placed these sort of agreements at risk later on and they fall apart when there's anything serious about to be done." North Korea has conducted two nuclear test blasts and is believed to have sufficient plutonium for several weapons. However, its ability to actually delivery any warhead remains in doubt. The fundamental question underlining the years-long process of the six-party talks was the possibility North Korea could be persuaded to eliminate its nuclear program if given the right incentives. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pyongyang</span></span>, though, has," and numerous U.S. pledges of its nonhostile intentions have not quelled that mistrust. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">continually cited the need for nuclear weapons in the face of "external threats This standoff is evidence that <span style="border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 0in;">no U.S. assurances or incentives</span> would curb North Korean</span></span> doubts and persuade it to take meaningful steps toward <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">denuclearization</span></span>, according to Cha. "It is very difficult for me to see this particular regime ever denuclearizing because even if you got rid of every potential external threat to North Korea -- even <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">if you surrounded North Korea with five Costa Ricas</span></span> -- <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this regime would still feel insecure,"</span></span> he said. "It's the nature of the regime; its inability to fulfill at least their version of the socialist contract with their people. This is the primary insecurity to the regime." Cronin was similarly downbeat. "I hate to be an additional realist and skeptic on this," he said. "Are we asking and expecting too much from six-party talks?" The United States should not expect the regime's "calculus" to change through negotiations, he added. Instead, the Obama administration should use the talks to maintain and strengthen partnerships with allies South Korea and Japan, according to Cronin. An additional obstacle to North Korean nuclear disarmament is the program's international notoriety, according to one speaker. "<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">I </span></span>just <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">don't see that the government</span></span> in Pyongyang <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has much </span></span>reason -- or much <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">incentive </span></span>-- <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">to give away the one thing that has caused the</span></span> rest of the <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">world to pay them any </span></span>significant <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">attention</span></span> whatsoever since the end of the Cold War," said Christopher Ford, director of the Center for Technology and Global Security at the Hudson Institute. 


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> North Korean nukes inevitable </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Kim 10 </span>**(Kwang-Tae, North Korea Could Have Nuclear Missiles in 10 Years, U.S. Says, 2 February 2010, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100202_3331.php, AMiles)


<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">North Korea could develop</span></span> the capacity to attach <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">nuclear warheads</span></span> to ballistic missiles <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in the next 10 years</span></span>, according to a U.S. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Defense Department report </span></span>released yesterday (see GSN, Feb. 1). The Pentagon's Ballistic Missile Defense Review notes that tests of the North's Taepodong 2 ballistic missile in 2006 and 2009 failed, the Korea Herald reported. "We must assume that <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">sooner or later North Korea will have a successful test</span></span> of its TD-2 and, if there are no major changes in its national security strategy in the next decade, it will be able to mate a nuclear warhead to a proven delivery system," the authors stated. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pyongyang has "successfully tested many technologies associated with an ICBM despite the most recent launch's failure</span></span> in its stated mission of orbiting a small communications satellite," the review noted, referring to an April 2009 launch by the North that was widely seen as a test of long-range missile technology (Korea Herald I, Feb. 2). At a news conference yesterday in Washington, U.S. Defense Undersecretary Michele Flournoy said the United States was presently safeguarded from a ballistic missile strike from North Korea, the Yonhap News Agency reported. "It's important to note that U.S. homeland missile defense efforts are focused on regional actors such as North Korea and Iran and are not intended to affect the strategic balance with Russia or China," Flournoy said. "We're currently protected against a limited ballistic missile attack, and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future." However, the potential spread of North Korean nuclear technology and materials is a serious concern at the Pentagon. "The instability or collapse of a WMD-armed state is among our most troubling concerns," the Pentagon's newly released Quadrennial Defense Review said in an apparent reference to the impoverished and isolated North Korean regime. "Such an occurrence could lead to a rapid proliferation of WMD material, weapons and technology, and could quickly become a global crisis posing a direct physical threat to the United States and all other nations" (Hwang Doo-hyong, Yonhap News Agency, Feb. 1). Meanwhile, South Korea's chief official for North Korean policy, Hyun In-taek, voiced doubts today on whether Pyongyang would ever agree to relinquish its nuclear weapons, Agence France-Presse reported. "With regard to the North Korean nuclear problem we are still stuck in a deep, dark tunnel," the unification minister said in Seoul. He noted that without offering concessions of its own, the Stalinist regime was demanding that U.N. Security Council sanctions be lifted as a precondition to returning to six-nation nuclear negotiations with China, Japan, South Korea, Russia and the United States. The disarmament talks were last held more than a year ago. "It has come to the point of using its return to the six-party talks as a bargaining chip," Hyun said. "If this continues, we can never be sure when the North Korean nuclear problem will be solved" (Agence France-Presse/Spacewar.com, Feb. 2). Hyun was also doubtful on the prospects of a possible inter-Korean summit making any headway on the nuclear issue, the Korea Herald reported. "<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The mere mention of the North Korean nuclear issue at the summit</span></span> ... <span class="Underline"><span style="border: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would be meaningless</span></span>," he said. 


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">North Korean prolif inevitable </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Allison 10</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">—Director, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs; Douglas Dillon Professor of Government; Faculty Chair, Dubai Initiative, Harvard Kennedy School (Graham, Nuclear Disorder: Surveying Atomic Threats, Jan/Feb 2010, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19819/nuclear_disorder.html, AMiles) </span></span>


<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Most of the foreign policy community has still not absorbed the facts about North Korean developments over the past eight years. One of the poorest and most isolated states on earth, North Korea had at most two bombs' worth of plutonium in 2001. Today, it has an arsenal of ten bombs and has conducted two nuclear weapons tests. It is currently harvesting the plutonium for an 11th bomb and restoring its reactor in Yongbyon, which has the capacity to produce a further two bombs' worth of plutonium a year. In addition, Pyongyang has repeatedly tested long-range missiles that are increasingly reliable, has proliferated nuclear technologies (including the sale of a Yongbyon-style reactor to Syria), and may be developing a second path to nuclear weapons by building a facility to enrich uranium. </span></span>






=<span style="font-size: 15px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 27px;">**Impact Turns** </span>= 
==Prolif Good -- Ghill== 

**Prolif decreases the risk of full-scale war – robust ev**
**Asal 7—**pol sci, SUNY—AND—Kyle Beardsley—pol sci, Emory (Victor, Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior, http://jpr.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/44/2/139, AMiles)

As Model 1 in Table IV illustrates, all of our variables are statistically significant except for the protracted conflict variable. Our primary independent variable, the number of nuclear actors involved in the crisis, has a negative relationship with the severity of violence and is significant. This lends preliminary support to the argument that nuclear weapons have a restraining affect on crisis behavior, as stated in H1. It should be noted that, of the crises that involved four nuclear actors – Suez Nationalization War (1956), Berlin Wall (1961), October Yom Kippur War (1973), and Iraq No-Fly Zone (1992) – and five nuclear actors – Gulf War (1990) – only two are not full-scale wars. While this demonstrates that the pacifying effect of more nuclear actors is not strong enough to prevent war in all situations, it does not necessarily weaken the argument that there is actually a pacifying effect. The positive and statistically significant coefficient on the variable that counts the number of crisis actors has a magnitude greater than that on the variable that counts the number of nuclear actors. Since increases in the number of overall actors in a crisis are strongly associated with higher levels of violence, it should be no surprise that many of the conflicts with many nuclear actors – by extension, many general actors as well – experienced war. Therefore, the results can only suggest that, keeping the number of crisis actors fixed, increasing the proportion of nuclear actors has a pacifying effect. They do not suggest that adding nuclear actors to a crisis will decrease the risk of high levels violence; but rather, adding more actors of any type to a crisis can have a destabilizing effect. Also in Table IV, Model 2 demonstrates that the effect of a nuclear dyad is only approaching statistical significance, but does have a sign that indicates higher levels of violence are less likely in crises with opponents that have nuclear weapons than other crises. This lukewarm result suggests that it might not be necessary for nuclear actors to face each other in order to get the effect of decreased propensity for violence. All actors should tend to be more cautious in escalation when there is a nuclear opponent, regardless of their own capabilities. While this might weaken support for focusing on specifically a ‘balance of terror’ as a source of stability (see Gaddis, 1986; Waltz, 1990; Sagan & Waltz, 2003; Mearsheimer, 1990), it supports the logic in this article that nuclear weapons can serve as a deterrent of aggression from both nuclear and non-nuclear opponents.6 Model 3 transforms the violence variable to a binary indicator of war and demonstrates that the principal relationship between the number of nuclear actors and violence holds for the most crucial outcome of full-scale war. Model 4 demonstrates that accounting for the presence of new nuclear actors does not greatly change the results. The coefficient on the new nuclear actor variable is statistically insignificant, which lends credence to the optimists’ view that new nuclear-weapon states should not be presupposed to behave less responsibly than the USA, USSR, UK, France, and China did during the Cold War. Finally, Model 5 similarly illustrates that crises involving super- powers are not more or less prone to violence than others. Superpower activity appears to not be driving the observed relationships between the number of nuclear-crisis actors and restraint toward violence. It is important to establish more specifically what the change in the probability of full-scale war is when nuclear actors are involved. Table V presents the probability of different levels of violence as the number of nuclear actors increases in the Clarify simulations. The control variables are held at their modes or means, with the exception of the variable that counts the number of crisis actors. Because it would be impossible to have, say, five nuclear-crisis actors and only two crisis actors, the number of crisis actors is held constant at five. As we can see, the impact of an increase in the number of nuclear actors is substantial. Starting from a crisis situation without any nuclear actors, including one nuclear actor (out of five) reduces the likelihood of full-scale war by nine percentage points. As we continue to add nuclear actors, the likelihood of full-scale war declines sharply, so that the probability of a war with the maximum number of nuclear actors is about three times less than the probability with no nuclear actors. In addition, the probabilities of no violence and only minor clashes increase substantially as the number of nuclear actors increases. The probability of serious clashes is relatively constant. Overall, the analysis lends significant support to the more optimistic proliferation argument related to the expectation of violent conflict when nuclear actors are involved. While the presence of nuclear powers does not prevent war, it significantly reduces the probability of full-scale war, with more reduction as the number of nuclear powers involved in the conflict increases. As mentioned, concerns about selection effects in deterrence models, as raised by Fearon (2002), should be taken seriously. While we control for the strategic selection of serious threats within crises, we are unable to control for the non-random initial initiation of a crisis in which the actors may choose to enter a crisis based on some ex ante assessment of the out-comes. To account for possible selection bias caused by the use of a truncated sample that does not include any non-crisis cases, one would need to use another dataset in which the crisis cases are a subset and then run Heckman-type selection models (see Lemke & Reed, 2001). It would, however, be difficult to think of a different unit of analysis that might be employed, such that the set of crises is a subset of a larger category of interaction.

**Empirically proven**
**Tepperman 9—**Deputy Editor at Newsweek. Frmr Deputy Managing Editor, Foreign Affairs. LLM, i-law, NYU. MA, jurisprudence, Oxford. (Jonathan, Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb, http://jonathantepperman.com/Welcome_files/nukes_Final.pdf, AMiles)

A growing and compelling body of research suggests that nuclear weapons may not, in fact, make the world more dangerous, as Obama and most people assume. The bomb may actually make us safer. In this era of rogue states and transnational terrorists, that idea sounds so obviously wrongheaded that few politicians or policymakers are willing to entertain it. But that’s a mistake. Knowing the truth about nukes would have a profound impact on government policy. Obama’s idealistic campaign, so out of character for a pragmatic administration, may be unlikely to get far (past presidents have tried and failed). But it’s not even clear he should make the effort. There are more important measures the U.S. government can and should take to make the real world safer, and these mustn’t be ignored in the name of a dreamy ideal (a nukefree planet) that’s both unrealistic and possibly undesirable. The argument that nuclear weapons can be agents of peace as well as destruction rests on two deceptively simple observations. First, nuclear weapons have not been used since 1945. Second, there’s never been a nuclear, or even a nonnuclear, war between two states that possess them. Just stop for a second and think about that: it’s hard to overstate how remarkable it is, especially given the singular viciousness of the 20th century. As Kenneth Waltz, the leading “nuclear optimist” and a professor emeritus of political science at UC Berkeley puts it, “We now have 64 years of experience since Hiroshima. It’s striking and against all historical precedent that for that substantial period, there has not been any war among nuclear states.” To understand why—and why the next 64 years are likely to play out the same way—you need to start by recognizing that all states are rational on some basic level. Their leaders may be stupid, petty, venal, even evil, but they tend to do things only when they’re pretty sure they can get away with them. Take war: a country will start a fight only when it’s almost certain it can get what it wants at an acceptable price. Not even Hitler or Saddam waged wars they didn’t think they could win. The problem historically has been that leaders often make the wrong gamble and underestimate the other side—and millions of innocents pay the price. Nuclear weapons change all that by making the costs of war obvious, inevitable, and unacceptable. Suddenly, when both sides have the ability to turn the other to ashes with the push of a button— and everybody knows it—the basic math shifts. Even the craziest tin-pot dictator is forced to accept that war with a nuclear state is unwinnable and thus not worth the effort. As Waltz puts it, “Why fight if you can’t win and might lose everything?” Why indeed? The iron logic of deterrence and mutually assured destruction is so compelling, it’s led to what’s known as the nuclear peace: the virtually unprecedented stretch since the end of World War II in which all the world’s major powers have avoided coming to blows. They did fight proxy wars, ranging from Korea to Vietnam to Angola to Latin America. But these never matched the furious destruction of full-on, great-power war (World War II alone was responsible for some 50 million to 70 million deaths). And since the end of the Cold War, such bloodshed has declined precipitously. Meanwhile, the nuclear powers have scrupulously avoided direct combat, and there’s very good reason to think they always will. There have been some near misses, but a close look at these cases is fundamentally reassuring—because in each instance, very different leaders all came to the same safe conclusion. Take the mother of all nuclear standoffs: the Cuban missile crisis. For 13 days in October 1962, the United States and the Soviet Union each threatened the other with destruction. But both countries soon stepped back from the brink when they recognized that a war would have meant curtains for everyone. As important as the fact that they did is the reason why: Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev’s aide Fyodor Burlatsky said later on, “It is impossible to win a nuclear war, and both sides realized that, maybe for the first time.” The record since then shows the same pattern repeating: nucleararmed enemies slide toward war, then pull back, always for the same reasons. The best recent example is India and Pakistan, which fought three bloody wars after independence before acquiring their own nukes in 1998. Getting their hands on weapons of mass destruction didn’t do anything to lessen their animosity. But it did dramatically mellow their behavior. Since acquiring atomic weapons, the two sides have never fought another war, despite severe provocations (like Pakistani-based terrorist attacks on India in 2001 and 2008). They have skirmished once. But during that flare-up, in Kashmir in 1999, both countries were careful to keep the fighting limited and to avoid threatening the other’s vital interests. Sumit Ganguly, an Indiana University professor and coauthor of the forthcoming India, Pakistan, and the Bomb, has found that on both sides, officials’ thinking was strikingly similar to that of the Russians and Americans in 1962. The prospect of war brought Delhi and Islamabad face to face with a nuclear holocaust, and leaders in each country did what they had to do to avoid it. Nuclear pessimists—and there are many—insist that even if this pattern has held in the past, it’s crazy to rely on it in the future, for several reasons. The first is that today’s nuclear wannabes are so completely unhinged, you’d be mad to trust them with a bomb. Take the sybaritic Kim Jong Il, who’s never missed a chance to demonstrate his battiness, or Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has denied the Holocaust and promised the destruction of Israel, and who, according to some respected Middle East scholars, runs a messianic martyrdom cult that would welcome nuclear obliteration. These regimes are the ultimate rogues, the thinking goes —and there’s no deterring rogues. But are Kim and Ahmadinejad really scarier and crazier than were Stalin and Mao? It might look that way from Seoul or Tel Aviv, but history says otherwise. Khrushchev, remember, threatened to “bury” the United States, and in 1957, Mao blithely declared that a nuclear war with America wouldn’t be so bad because even “if half of mankind died . . . the whole world would become socialist.” Pyongyang and Tehran support terrorism—but so did Moscow and Beijing. And as for seeming suicidal, Michael Desch of the University of Notre Dame points out that Stalin and Mao are the real recordholders here: both were responsible for the deaths of some 20 million of their own citizens. Yet when push came to shove, their regimes balked at nuclear suicide, and so would today’s international bogeymen. For all of Ahmadinejad’s antics, his power is limited, and the clerical regime has always proved rational and pragmatic when its life is on the line. Revolutionary Iran has never started a war, has done deals with both Washington and Jerusalem, and sued for peace in its war with Iraq (which Saddam started) once it realized it couldn’t win. North Korea, meanwhile, is a tiny, impoverished, family-run country with a history of being invaded; its overwhelming preoccupation is survival, and every time it becomes more belligerent it reverses itself a few months later (witness last week, when Pyongyang told Seoul and Washington it was ready to return to the bargaining table). These countries may be brutally oppressive, but nothing in their behavior suggests they have a death wish.


**Prolif solves conventional wars**
**Preston 9—**assoc prof, IR, Wash State U (Thomas, From Lambs to Lions, 31-2, AMiles)

Advocates of deterrence seldom take the position that it will always work or that it cannot fail. Rather, they take the position that if one can achieve the requisite elements required to achieve a stable deterrent relationship between parties, it vastly decreases the chances of miscalculation and resorting to war—even in contexts where it might otherwise be expected to occur (George and Smoke 1974; Harvey 1997a; Powell 1990, 2003; Goldstein 2000). Unfortunately, critics of deterrence take the understandable, if unrealistic, position that if deterrence cannot be 100 percent effective under all circumstances, then it is an unsound strategic approach for states to rely upon, especially considering the immense destructiveness of nuclear weapons. Feaver (1993,162). for example, criticizes reliance on nuclear deterrence because it can fail and that rational deterrence theory can only predict that peace should occur most of the time (e.g., Lebow and Stein 1989). Yet, were we to apply this standard of perfection to most other policy approaches concerning security matters—whether it be arms control or proliferation regime efforts, military procurement policies, alliance formation strategies, diplomacy, or sanctions—none could be argued with any more certainty to completely remove the threat of equally devastating wars either. Indeed, one could easily make the argument that these alternative means have shown themselves historically to be far less effective than nuclear arms in preventing wars. Certainly, the twentieth century was replete with examples of devastating conventional conflicts which were not deterred through non-nuclear measures. Although the potential costs of a nuclear exchange between small states would indeed cause a frightful loss of life, it would be no more costly (and likely far less so) than large-scale conventional conflicts have been for combatants. Moreover, if nuclear deterrence raises the potential costs of war high enough for policy makers to want to avoid (rather than risk) conflict, it is just as legitimate (if not more so) for optimists to argue in favor of nuclear deterrence in terms of the lives saved through the avoidance of far more likely recourses to conventional wars, as it is for pessimists to warn of the potential costs of deterrence failure. And, while some accounts describing the "immense weaknesses"' of deterrence theory (Lebow and Stein 1989. 1990) would lead one to believe deterrence was almost impossible to either obtain or maintain, since 1945 there has not been one single historical instance of nuclear deterrence failure {especially when this notion is limited to threats to key central state interests like survival, and not to minor probing of peripheral interests). Moreover, the actual costs of twentieth-century conventional conflicts have been staggeringly immense, especially when compared to the actual costs of nuclear conflicts (for example, 210,000 fatalities in the combined 1945 Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic bombings compared to 62 million killed overall during World War II. over three million dead in both the Korean and Vietnam conflicts, etc.) (McKinzie et al. 2001.28).3 Further, as Gray (1999. 158-59) observes, "it is improbable that policymakers anywhere need to be educated as to the extraordinary qualities and quantities of nuclear armaments." Indeed, the high costs and uncontestable, immense levels of destruction that would be caused by nuclear weapons have been shown historically to be facts that have not only been readily apparent and salient to a wide range of policy makers, but ones that have clearly been demonstrated to moderate extreme policy or risk-taking behavior (Blight 1992; Preston 2001) Could it go wrong? Of course. There is always that potential with human beings in the loop. Nevertheless, it has also been shown to be effective at moderating policy maker behavior and introducing an element of constraint into situations that otherwise would likely have resulted in war (Hagerty 1998).


**Curbing nuclear prolif causes a shift to bioweapons.**
**Zilinskas 2k—**Former Clinical Microbiologist. Dir. – Chem/Bio Weapons Nonproliferation Program – Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies (Raymond, Biological warfare: modern offense and defense, 1-2, AMiles)

It is an odd characteristic of biological weapons that military generals tend to view them with distaste, but civilian bioscientists often have lobbied for their development and deployment. There are, of course, understandable reasons for this oddity; generals find that these weapons do not fit neatly into tactical or strategic military doctrines of attack or defense, whereas researchers have observed that transforming microbes into weapons presents interesting scientific challenges whose solution governments have been willing to pay well for. Another oddity is that whenever biological weapons have been employed in battle, they have proven militarily ineffectual, yet bellicose national leaders persevere in seeking to acquire them. There is also a facile explanation for this anomaly, namely, that although pathogens are all too willing to invade prospective hosts, human ingenuity so far has failed to devise reliable methods for effectively conveying a large number of pathogens to the population targeted for annihilation by disease. This repeated failure has not deterred leaders; again and again they become allured by the potential destructive power of biological weapons. Perhaps trusting science too much, they direct government scientists to develop them, believing that this time a usable weapon of mass destruction will be achieved. Their belief so far has been thwarted, but is it possible that within the foreseeable future the potential of biological weapons will be realized and that the effect of a biological bomb, missile, or aerosolized cloud can be as readily predetermined as that of a bomb or missile carrying a conventional or nuclear warhead? There are many who believe that today's bioscientists and chemical engineers working in unison and wielding the techniques of molecule biology developed since the early 1970s could, if so commanded, develop militarily effective biological weapons within a fairly short time. If this supposition is correct, our perception of biological weapons as being undependable, uncontrollable, and unreliable must change. The reason is simple: if these weapons are demonstrated to possess properties that make it possible for commanders to effect controlled, confined mass destruction on command, all governments would be forced to construct defenses against them and some undoubtedly would be tempted to arm their military with these weapons that would be both powerful and relatively inexpensive to acquire. Ironically, as tougher international controls are put into place to deter nations from seeking to acquire chemical and nuclear weapons, leaders may be even more drawn to biological arms as the most accessible form of weapon of mass destruction. Before beginning a consideration of the implications of molecular biology for biological warfare (BW) and defense, it is worthwhile to briefly review the history of microbiology. It has passed through two eras, and we presently are in its third era. The first was the “pre-Pasteur” era; when the underlying science of fermentation was unknown, so microbiology was applied strictly on an empirical basis. Although undoubtedly any fine beers and wines, as well as breads and other fermented foods, were produced through the use of empirically developed fermentation techniques, no finely controlled production of chemicals was possible. During this era, BW was also empirically based. Common tactics included contaminating water sources with bloated animal carcasses and catapulting infected cadavers into citadels (Poupard and Miller, 1992).

**Extinction.**
**Ochs, 2002** [Richard, Naturalist – Grand Teton National park with Masters in Natural Resource Management – Rutgers, “Biological Weapons must be abolished immediately” 6-9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]

Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered biological weapons, many without a known cure or vaccine, are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. While a "nuclear winter," resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control. Biological weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated. There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. Abolition of chemical weapons is less of a priority because, while they can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment. Like the Holocaust, once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With nuclear and biological weapons, the killing will probably never end. Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. Potentially worse than that, bio-engineered agents by the hundreds with no known cure could wreck even greater calamity on the human race than could persistent radiation. AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE. ﻿


==Species Loss Good== 



**Species loss causes better-adapted species to evolve**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Dodds 7</span>** – MS in PE. President, North Pacific Research (Donald, The Myth of Biodiversity, http://northpacificresearch.com/downloads/The_myth_of_biodiversity.doc, AG) </span>


Notice next that at least ten times biodiversity fell rapidly; none of these extreme reductions in biodiversity were caused by humans. Around 250 million years ago the number of genera was reduce 85 percent from about 1200 to around 200, by any definition a significant reduction in biodiversity. Now notice that after this extinction a steep and rapid rise of biodiversity. In fact, if you look closely at the curve, you will find that every mass-extinction was followed by a massive increase in biodiversity. Why was that? Do you suppose it had anything to do with the number environmental niches available for exploitation? If you do, you are right. Extinctions are necessary for creation. Each time a mass extinction occurs the world is filled with new and better-adapted species. That is the way evolution works, its called survival of the fittest. Those species that could not adapted to the changing world conditions simply disappeared and better species evolved. How efficient is that? Those that could adapt to change continued to thrive. For example, the cockroach and the shark have been around well over 300 million years. There is a pair to draw to, two successful species that any creator would be proud to produce. To date these creatures have successful survived six extinctions, without the aid of humans or the EPA. Now notice that only once in the last 500 million years did life ever exceed 1500 genera, and that was in the middle of the Cretaceous Period around 100 million years ago, when the dinosaurs exploded on the planet. Obviously, biodiversity has a bad side. The direct result of this explosion in biodiversity was the extinction of the dinosaurs that followed 45 million years later at the KT boundary. It is interesting to note, that at the end of the extinction the number of genera had returned to the 1500 level almost exactly. Presently biodiversity is at an all time high and has again far exceeded the 1500 genera level. Are we over due for another extinction? A closer look at the KT extinction 65 million years ago reveals at least three things. First the 1500 genera that remained had passed the test of environmental compatibility and remained on the planet. This was not an accident. Second, these extinctions freed niches for occupation by better-adapted species. The remaining genera now faced an environment with hundreds of thousands of vacant niches. Third, it only took about 15 million years to refill all of those niches and completely replaced the dinosaurs, with new and better species. In this context, a better species is by definition one that is more successful in dealing with a changing environment.

**Human intervention in evolutionary progress prevents natural selection**
**Kunich 94 – Professor of Law, Appalachian School of Law (John, 24 Envtl. L. 501, AG)**

The ESA manifests no evidence that its drafters understood the biological realities and history of extinction. As discussed earlier, species have been evolving and going extinct since the daybreak of life on this planet. During several epochs, huge numbers of species went out of existence at roughly the same time, greatly reducing earth's biodiversity. Most of these millions of extinction events took place without any human involvement; in fact most of them preceded man's arrival as a species. These extinctions were caused by climatic shifts, competitive inferiority [*560] compared to other or newer species, habitat alteration, and other factors quite unrelated to Homo sapiens. Included among the myriad species that died out before the human era are some of the most spectacular, successful, and fascinating "charismatic megafauna" of all time -- the multitudinous varieties of dinosaurs and giant mammals. As much as we might crave the opportunity to see these creatures alive today, the fact remains that their extinction evidently was necessary for life on earth to evolve in such a way that other species such as humans could thrive. Evolution cannot proceed without the extinction of organisms that are less well-adapted to changing conditions. Yet, if humans and the ESA had somehow existed at the time, we would have been required to stand in the path of evolutionary progress. Despite the unquestionable benefits to mankind and other species from the disappearance of the previously dominant dinosaurs, the ESA would have forced us to try to preserve them. The notion that some extinctions are desirable might seem callous or cynical, and it certainly is subject to overuse and exploitation; but it is also true. Extinction is an essential part of the brutal, unforgiving struggle that is evolution. It clears limited habitat and resources for use by the species that are best adapted for current conditions, thus rewarding the life forms that have been most successful in the game of living. It is a natural method of weeding the garden, of filtering out the weaker, or inflexible, or anachronistic species so as to maximize the evolutionary fitness of the gene pool at any point in time.

**Unlimited species growth causes final extinction**
**Boulter 2 – professor of paleobiology at the University of East London (Michael, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, p 67, AG)**

If biological evolution really is a self-organised Earth-life system there are some very important consequences. One is that life on this planet continues despite internal and external setbacks, because it is the system that recovers at the expense of some of its former parts. For example, the end of the dinosaurs enabled mammals to diversify. Otherwise if the exponential rise were to reach infinity, there would not be space or food to sustain life. It would come to a stop. Extinctions are necessary to retain life on this planet.


**Current human impacts on nature bring long-term evolutionary benefit**
**Boulter 2 –** professor of paleobiology at the University of East London (Michael, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, p 170, AG)

The same trend of long-drawn-out survival of the final relicts has been further considered by Bob May's group at Oxford, particularly Sean Nee. The Oxford group are vociferous wailers of gloom and doom: 'Extinction episodes, such as the anthropogenic one currently under way, result in a pruned tree of life.' But they go on to argue that the vast majority of groups survive this pruning, so that evolution goes on, albeit along a different path if the environment is changed. Indeed, the fossil record has taught us to expect a vigorous evolutional response when the ecosystem changes significantly. This kind of research is more evidence to support the idea that evolution thrives on culling. The planet did really well from the Big Five mass-extinction events. The victims' demise enabled new environments to develop and more diversification took place in other groups of animals and plants. Nature was the richer for it. In just this same way the planet can take advantage from the abuse we are giving it. The harder the abuse, the greater the change to the environment. But it also follows that it brings forward the extinctions of a whole selection of vulnerable organisms.


**Mass extinctions are key to life on Earth**
**Boulter 2 –** professor of paleobiology at the University of East London (Michael, Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man, p 183-4)

The system of life on Earth behaves in a similar way for all its measurable variables, whether they are communities or ecosystems. For sand grains, substitute species or genes. For avalanches, substitute extinctions. Power laws tell us that large avalanches or large extinctions are much less common than small ones. The controlling factors for the sand piles are weight and angle of the sides of the pile; for mammals they are space and food within the ecosystem. We can kick the sand pile with our feet, and we can reduce the space and the food by changing the environment. But what would happen to the life-Earth system without these external changes? Could it be like a pile without avalanches, eventually collapsing into white noise? The answer lies in our theory of exponential diversification within macro-evolution; the curve ever rising towards the vertical when the Fossil Record 2 Family data are plotted (see figure 3.5). The situation starts to become critical when numbers rise above a comfortable quantity, whether the system is a pile of sand, cars on a motorway or large mammals in America. If there were no mass extinctions, that exponential curve really could have risen to the truly vertical. It could have happened long ago, and it could happen again if there were no extinctions holding it back from the vertical. If that were so, all life on planet Earth would cease. It would need to start again from scratch.


=<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia; mso-bidi-font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Retal Good</span>= 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Retaliation is key to prevent prolif and strengthen deterrence </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Huessy, 9</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;"> [Peter—president of GeoStrategic Analysis, guest lecturer at Johns Hopkins University, “Nukes for Peace: Nuclear Terrorism and the State of US Detterent Policy”, <span style="color: black;">January 29, </span>http://www.opinioneditorials.com/guestcontributors/phuessy_20090129.html, ZAKBurdette) </span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">In short, deterrence cannot be a “bluff”. The idea that nuclear weapons are only to stop an attack on the US but once deterrence breaks down cannot be used in retaliation could render our deterrent less than credible in the eyes of our adversaries. The US has always had some variant of a policy of reducing through counterforce retaliatory strikes the potential further damage to the US and its allies that could come from nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons. In short, our retaliatory option against the weapons or bunkers or facilities of our adversaries gives us a counterforce capability which must be part of our deterrent equation. Otherwise, if as the Senator writes “we must recognize what these weapons are---not a deterrent”, this implies we could eliminate most if not all funding for our nuclear arsenal and rely solely on our conventional capability to deter our adversaries and reassure our allies. Such a policy would be fraught with peril. It is vitally important, I believe, that America’s leaders carefully weigh what we say about nuclear weapons, their purpose and their employ. As Jim Schlesinger, the former Secretary of Defense has recently warned, the deterioration of our nuclear enterprise, which started from the neglect of its maintenance at the end of the Cold War, may undermine both the strength of our own deterrent and our extended deterrent under which our allies remain protected. If such a problem is not fully resolved, our allies may seek their own nuclear arsenals and our adversaries such as Iran and North Korea may also be emboldened. I believe there is no contradiction between seeking lower levels of nuclear weapons and maintaining a deterrent second to none. Until we get to that rather dramatically transformed world where approaching zero nuclear weapons is in our national interest, we have no choice but to see to it that Job #1, maintaining a strong nuclear enterprise, is at the top of our priority list. I am fairly confident that we are not ready for a world in which we can reduce our nuclear arsenal to such an extent that it is no larger than all other nuclear armed states but that is probably the geostrategic environment through which we would have to pass to get to zero. However attractive such a world might appear in theory, there is no substitute now for the hard work of maintaining our nuclear deterrent in the most robust manner to ensure the safety of this and future generations. That is what our Founders called upon us to do: “Provide for the Common Defense”. </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">A US nuclear strike is key to deter use of chemical and biological weapons </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Schneider 99 – </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">director of the US Air Force Counterproliferation Center and Professor of International Relations at the Air War College (Dr. Barry R., Future War and Counterproliferation: U.S. Military Responses to NBC Proliferation Threats, 73) </span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">**Note: NASTI = NBC-Arming Sponsor of Terrorism and Intervention** </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">However, if enemy CBW attacks were directed against important targets in the American homeland, or if they caused horrific numbers of U.S. and allied casualties in the field, it might well be that U.S. public opinion then would sanction a U.S. nuclear retaliatory response. In that case, an aroused American public might demand harsh nuclear retribution. Nuclear weapons have been used just twice in history and that was over half a century ago. There is likely to be a gradual erosion in the ability of the United States to deter military action by others with their threatened use as nuclear weapons become progressively delegitimized. Some analysts argue that at present the "non-use ethos has become so persuasive that nuclear deterrence is no longer credible."14 Some believe that while any nuclear explosion anywhere would be a local disaster, there would be at least one global silver lining. Nuclear deterrence would be more credible and might then better scare off the enemy's use of chemical and biological weapons. For this reason, one analyst has provocatively suggested that "the sooner a nuclear weapon is used in the world the better, on the grounds that only then will the United States and other nuclear powers be able to develop a credible strategy against weapons of mass destruction.”15 Some Rand Corporation analysts suggest that the United States make a nuclear declaratory policy statement that it will use such atomic arms in response to any NBC attacks. This announced policy would go beyond the “belligerent reprisal” doctrine that merely argues that it is legal to do so. Such a policy would say the United States would consider itself free to use nuclear arms against such WMD aggressors. This, it is argued, would help to dispel thinking by rogue state leaders that the United States may not be willing to escalate to the nuclear option. However, for those states that sign, ratify and simultaneously adhere to the NPT, CWC, and BWC pacts, these same analysts argue that the United States should make a “no first use” pledge regarding its nuclear forces. 16 Against a NASTI, U.S. nuclear threats and, if necessary, nuclear weapons employment might have a number of advantages over U.S. biological and chemical weapons responses in kind. 17 The compellence advantage of making a nuclear threat is that employment of such weapons could indeed inflict "unacceptable levels of damage" on almost any adversary. This is especially true in some areas of the world where one or two targets are of supreme cultural, economic, or political value to that society or state and where even a small nuclear strike could inflict ruinous damage on those targets. In the Middle East, for example, one analyst talks about most states being "one bomb states,"18 countries that would be ruined if their capital or major city were destroyed. It is highly unlikely that the United States today would elect to bomb a populated area where many civilians live in order to retaliate, but the Hiroshima and Nagasaki precedent //does// exist, and this precedent might make a NASTI think twice before starting the first use of weapons of mass destruction. </span>**

<span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Nuclear war </span>
<span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">Robinson,</span>**<span style="color: black; mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;"> 1 – president and director of the Department of Energy Sandia National Laboratories (C. Paul, “A White Paper: Pursuing a New Nuclear Weapons Policy for the 21st Century,” </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">http://www.nukewatch.org/importantdocs/resources/pursuing_a_new_nuclear_weapons_p.html<span style="color: black;">) </span></span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Georgia;">I served as an arms negotiator on the last two agreements before the dissolution of the Soviet Union and have spent most of my career enmeshed in the complexity of nuclear weapons issues on the government side of the table. It is abundantly clear (to me) that formulating a new nuclear weapons policy for the start of the 21st Century will be a most difficult undertaking. While the often over-simplified picture of deterrence during the Cold War—two behemoths armed to the teeth, staring each other down—has thankfully retreated into history, there are nevertheless huge arsenals of nuclear weapons and delivery systems, all in quite usable states, that could be brought back quickly to their Cold War postures<span style="color: black;">. </span>Additionally, throughout the Cold War and ever since, there has been a steady proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction by other nations around the globe. The vast majority of these newly armed states are not U.S. allies<span style="color: black;">, </span>and some already are exhibiting hostile behaviors, while others have the potential to become aggressors toward the U.S., our allies, and our international interests. Russia has already begun to emphasize the importance of its arsenal of nuclear weapons to compensate for its limited conventional capabilities to deal with hostilities that appear to be increasing along its borders. It seems inescapable that the U.S. must carefully think through how we should be preparing to deal with new threats from other corners of the world, including the role that nuclear weapons might serve in deterring these threats from ever reaching actual aggressions. I personally see the abolition of nuclear weapons as an impractical dream in any foreseeable future. I came to this view from several directions. The first is the impossibility of ever “uninventing” or erasing from the human mind the knowledge of how to build such weapons. While the sudden appearance of a few tens of nuclear weapons causes only a small stir in a world where several thousands of such weapons already exist, their appearance in a world without nuclear weapons would produce huge effects. (The impact of the first two weapons in ending World War II should be a sufficient example.) I believe that the words of Winston Churchill, as quoted by Margaret Thatcher to a special joint session of the U.S. Congress on February 20, 1985, remain convincing on this point: “Be careful above all things not to let go of the atomic weapon until you are sure, and more sure than sure, that other means of preserving the peace are in your hands.” Similarly, it is my sincere view that the majority of the nations who<span style="color: black;"> have now </span>acquired arsenals of nuclear weapons believe them to be such potent tools for deterring conflicts that they would never surrender them. Against this backdrop, I recently began to worry that because there were few public statements by U.S. officials in reaffirming the unique role which nuclear weapons play in ensuring U.S. and world security, far too many people (including many in our own armed forces) were beginning to believe that perhaps nuclear weapons no longer had value. It seemed to me that it was time for someone to step forward and articulate the other side of these issues for the public: first, that nuclear weapons remain of vital importance to the security of the U.S. and to our allies and friends (today and for the near future); and second, that nuclear weapons will likely have an enduring role in preserving the peace and preventing world wars for the foreseeable future. These are my purposes in writing this paper. For the past eight years, I have served several Commanders-in-Chief of the U.S. Strategic Command by chairing the Policy Subcommittee of the Strategic Advisory Group (SAG). This group was asked to help develop a new terms of reference for nuclear strategy in the post-Cold War world. This paper draws on many of the discussions with my SAG colleagues (although one must not assume their endorsement of all of the ideas presented here). We addressed how nuclear deterrence might be extended—not just to deter Russia—but how it might serve a continuing role in deterring wider acts of aggression from any corner of the world, including deterring the use of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons. [Taken together, these are normally referred to as Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD).] My approach here will be to: (1) examine what might be the appropriate roles for nuclear weapons for the future, (2) propose some new approaches to developing nuclear strategies and policies that are more appropriate for the post-Cold War world, and (3) consider the kinds of military systems and nuclear weapons that would be needed to match those policies. The Role(s) of Nuclear Weapons The Commander-in-Chief of the Strategic Command, Admiral Rich Mies, succinctly reflected the current U.S. deterrent policy last year in testimony to the U.S. Senate: “Deterrence of aggression is a cornerstone of our national security strategy, and strategic nuclear forces serve as the most visible and most important element of our commitment Š (further) deterrence of major military attack on the United States and its allies, particularly attacks involving weapons of mass destruction, remains our highest defense priority.” While the application of this policy seemed clear, perhaps we could have said even “straightforward,” during the Cold War; application of that policy becomes even more complicated if we consider applying it to any nation other than Russia. Let me first stress that nuclear arms must never be thought of as a single “cure-all” for security concerns. For the past 20 years, only 10 percent of the U.S. defense budget has been spent on nuclear forces. The other 90 percent is for “war fighting” capabilities. Indeed, conflicts have continued to break out every few years in various regions of the globe, and these nonnuclear capabilities have been regularly employed. By contrast, we have not used nuclear weapons in conflict since World War II. This is an important distinction for us to emphasize as an element of U.S. defense policy, and one not well understood by the public at large. Nuclear weapons must never be considered as war fighting tools. Rather we should rely on the catastrophic nature of nuclear weapons to achieve war prevention, to prevent a conflict from escalating (e.g., to the use of weapons of mass destruction), or to help achieve war termination when it cannot be achieved by other means, e.g., if the enemy has already escalated the conflict through the use of weapons of mass destruction. Conventional armaments and forces will remain the backbone of U.S. defense forces, but the inherent threat to escalate to nuclear use can help to prevent conflicts from ever starting, can prevent their escalation, as well as bring these conflicts to a swift and certain end. In contrast to the situation facing Russia, I believe we cannot place an over-reliance on nuclear weapons<span style="color: black;">, </span>but that we must maintain adequate conventional capabilities to manage regional conflicts in any part of the world. Noting that the U.S. has always considered nuclear weapons as “weapons of last resort,” we need to give constant attention to improving conventional munitions in order to raise the threshold for which we would ever consider nuclear use. It is just as important for our policy makers to understand these interfaces as it is for our commanders. Defenses Although it is beyond the scope of this paper to strictly consider “defensive” tactics and armaments, I believe it is important for the United States to consider a continuum of defensive capabilities, from boost phase intercept to terminal defenses. Defenses have always been an important element of war fighting, and are likely to be so when defending against missiles. Defenses will also provide value in deterring conflicts or limiting escalations. Moreover, the existence of a credible defense to blunt attacks by armaments emanating from a rogue state could well eliminate that rogue nation’s ability to dissuade the U.S. from taking military actions. If any attack against the U.S., its allies, or its forces should be undertaken with nuclear weapons or other weapons of mass destruction, there should be no doubt in the attacker’s mind that the United States might retaliate for such an attack with nuclear weapons; but the choice would be in our hands. </span>**








=<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 25px;">Afghanistan COIN Neg </span>= 




==Russia DA== 





===1NC=== 



2010 is the key year for Russia to expand its sphere of influence and consolidate power over the region – pulling out allows the US to contain Russian expansion
Steff 10— **Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm, AMiles)**

**Well <span class="Underline">2010 will be a period of consolidation for Russia. It now has a sphere of influence that stretches into the Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Azerbaijan. </span>Putin once said that the collapse of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical disaster in 20th century history. He also said he had no intention of rebuilding that political union. The former statement was true; but we are seeing signs that the latter was just rhetoric. <span class="Underline">Putin does have political designs over the states of the f</span>ormer<span class="Underline"> S</span>oviet <span class="Underline">U</span>nion – the Customs Union that has just entered into force between Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan is the clearest example of this. <span class="Underline">His intention will be to </span>eventually <span class="Underline">integrate them into a new Russian political union</span> for it is the next logical step in Russia’s resurgence. <span class="Underline">A customs union is designed to reintegrate the industrial and strategic economic sectors of the old Soviet grid. Mutual economic benefits will flow from this and former Soviet states</span> outside it <span class="Underline">will find it incredibly appealing</span> to join (or Russia will make them ‘an offer they cannot refuse’). Once integration is done the weaker states of the customs union have two options - resist political integration while maintaining economic connections (a delicate balancing act), or politically integrate. What is interesting here are the analogies we can take from the EU experience. The EU economic project is intended by French and German elites to eventually create a European superpower. But to do so requires the smaller states to become subservient to the national interests of the larger members (and these interests often diverge). Absent a serious external threat it becomes very hard for the smaller states to convince their populations they should become a tool in a larger, potentially global, geopolitical game the French and German want to gain entry into. This becomes even more difficult when the smaller states are democratic - as we've seen with the referendums in Ireland and eventual acceptance of the watered down 'Lisbon Treaty' instead of the 'Constitutional Treaty'. The states Russia wants to pull back into a political union are not stable and established democracies. Therefore the elites of these states do not need to submit themselves to the will of their population. Furthermore, if joining Russia in a new political union guarantees their monopoly of power (since the Kremlin gains an interest in bolstering these elites) they will be far more willing to go along with it. In a way, former Soviet states will sue for what they can; but take what they must. The reality is that most of them are already economically dependent upon Russia anyway. Furthermore Russia’s great power relative to them means they cannot realistically resist Russian expansion anyway because, as Ukraine, Belarus and Georgia all found out, if you disagree with the political designs of the Kremlin Putin can simply shut off the gas, close down a border, deny them primary goods, or, should need be, smash them with its far superior military power (as Georgia found out). It is the will to use power that makes others fearful and compels them to accommodate one’s interests; not the existence of power itself. Putin has shown time and time again the will to use Russia’s power against its neighbours. <span class="Underline">For the elites in states adjacent to Russia (and their populations) the message is clear: align with Moscow or face the consequences</span>. As a consequence the next state to fall back into Moscow’s camp will be Ukraine after its upcoming elections. Obama and the Afghan Surge <span class="Underline">American military power is going to be absolutely bogged down</span> in the Middle East <span class="Underline">throughout 2010. Obama seems to be escalating the conflict</span> for political and diplomatic reasons: US presidents cannot just declare failure and retreat – it’s not in the DNA of the American political system. They have 'to show' that they will fight 'the bad guys' as hard as they can before they can make the rational decision to remove American military power. But <span class="Underline">Obama </span>has <span class="Underline">announced </span>that <span class="Underline">the surge </span>in Afghan <span class="Underline">is temporary</span>. <span class="Underline">The 'pull-out' begins in 2011</span>. Meanwhile the US will be drawing down troops from Iraq (which is set for an extremely unstable year). This means that, all going to plan, <span class="Underline">by sometime in 2011 American troops should be in reserve and available to be deployed to counter the Russians </span>or to any other hotspot**. But the Russians know **this and** it gives them one year **- 2010 - to completely lock down their influence and eject any remnants of American or European influence. Whether they entirely succeed or not is beside the point; <span class="Underline">by the end of 2010 any move to remove them from their position will have to be momentous</span> and overt. <span class="Underline">At the same time whatever Obama's plans may be they are not really his to make, for there are simply too many players now involved in the Middle Eastern cesspool of crises. The most important in the coming year will be the one centred upon Iran. An Escalating Crisis 2009 saw an escalation in the Iranian-American standoff over its nuclear program. Firstly, Obama and co. released proof of a covert Iranian nuclear plant followed by a series of highly significant leaks that seemed to show the Iranians were driving towards nuclear weapons. But this crisis also became consumed by the Russo-American standoff as Russian support for Iran became overt as it seeks to use Iran as a bargaining chip. But the outcome of the crisis is also dependent upon the calculations of Israel. If they actually believe that a nuclear Iran is an 'existential threat' they will have to act against is before it attains nuclear weapons, or at least show America they will act unless it gets tough on Iran. However, for America 'to act' short of war it needs Russian help to impose sanctions. Thus far Russia has given vague signals that </span>**it will help if the price is right**.** The price being American acquiescence to a new Russian political sphere of influence **around it’s near abroad (which it already has). Obama and Biden have declared that they will not do this owing to Russia's declining long term geopolitical position (although its power is growing in the short term). Biden, on a trip to Eastern Europe last year, even went so far to announce the Obama's administrations intentions to support efforts by US-friendly governments in the region to counter Russia's push. That means end-game for any Russo-American alignment on Iranian sanctions. At the same time Obama is escalating a war in Afghanistan and needs all the help from regional powers to 'win' this thing - even Iran. If America can accept the inevitability of a nuclear Iran and even the eventual hegemonic domination by Iran over parts of the Middle East and Gulf region then America can do a 'deal' with it whereby it would gain Iranian help to suppress the multiple crises in the Middle East. This would allow the US to drawdown military forces and reorient them back to the greater geopolitical enemy - Russia. Therefore Russia has an interest in keeping Iran close and ensuring that a rapprochement between Iran and the US remains impossible.**


US/Russian relations are at a turning point – US encroachment on Russia’s sphere of influence kills cooperation

Eyal 10 **(Jonathan, U.S., Russia truly committed to improving their relations, 26 June 2010, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/commentary/the-china-post/special-to-the-china-post/2010/06/26/262241/US-Russia.htm, AMiles)**

**Yet the meeting between the Russian and American leaders also cements a blossoming new partnership between their countries, after decades of frosty relations. This is one foreign policy achievement for which U.S. President Obama can justifiably feel proud. Since the disintegration of the Soviet Union in 1991, all U.S. presidents have tried to forge better relations with Moscow, but usually with little success. The old Cold War confrontation was quickly replaced by a feeling of mutual resentment. The Russians objected to what they saw as** America's encroachment into their old sphere of influence, **as Nato kept expanding into Eastern Europe. And the U.S., in turn, fretted about the alleged absence of democratic reforms in Moscow. Relations sunk to their lowest ebb when Russian troops invaded Georgia in August 2008, a conflict exacerbated by miscalculations in both Moscow and Washington. But by the time Obama came to power, many of these disputes were already over. Nato's expansion into the former Soviet republics reached its natural conclusion, while in Russia, Medvedev, a politician who believes in diplomacy, took over from Vladimir Putin, now Prime Minister, who instinctively opted for confrontation. Obama identified a “reset” in U.S.-Russian relations as one of his chief foreign policy objectives. He cancelled plans to build U.S. missile defense installations in Europe, to Moscow's great delight. And he swiftly re-launched nuclear disarmament talks. There were hiccups on the way. Obama's sudden tilt towards Russia alarmed some European countries, who feared that their security interests would be sacrificed. A nuclear disarmament deal proved difficult to negotiate, and still has to be ratified by the U.S. Congress. And Obama himself committed a gaffe when, during his first official visit to Moscow early last year, he made disparaging remarks about Putin, who continues to exercise considerable influence. But ultimately,** Obama's strategy has worked because**, as Sergey Rogov, who heads Russia's Institute for the U.S. and Canadian Studies, points out,** Russian officials were persuaded that Washington had truly abandoned its “paternalistic tone towards Moscow.” **As a result, Russia swung behind the U.S. in adopting sanctions against Iran, and this ensured that China also accepted the need for sanctions. However, the U.S.-Russian** rapprochement has only begun**. Although bilateral trade has doubled during the past year, it still stands at a puny US$24 billion, less than America's trade with Taiwan, and a mere fraction of the total value of America's trade with China, a figure which is 15 times larger.**


Extinction

Cohen 6**—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, The New American Cold War, 10 July 2006, http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Russia/New_Cold_War_Russia.html, AMiles)**

**<span class="Underline">As long as catastrophic possibilities exist in that nation, so do the unprecedented threats to US and international security. Experts differ as to which danger is the gravest--proliferation of Russia's enormous stockpile of nuclear, chemical and biological materials; ill-maintained nuclear reactors on land and on decommissioned submarines; an impaired early-warning system controlling missiles on hair-trigger alert; or the first-ever civil war in a shattered superpower, the terror-ridden Chechen conflict. But no one should doubt that together they constitute a much greater constant threat than any the United States faced during the Soviet era. Nor is a catastrophe involving weapons of mass destruction the only danger in what remains the world's largest territorial country. Nearly a quarter of the planet's people live on Russia's borders, among them conflicting ethnic and religious groups. Any instability in Russia could easily spread to a crucial and exceedingly volatile part of the world. There is another, perhaps more likely, possibility. Petrodollars may bring Russia long-term stability, but on the basis of growing authoritarianism and xenophobic nationalism. Those ominous factors derive primarily not from Russia's lost superpower status (or Putin's KGB background), as the US press regularly misinforms readers, but from so many lost and damaged lives at home since 1991. Often called the "Weimar scenario," this outcome probably would not be truly fascist, but it would be a Russia possessing weapons of mass destruction and large proportions of the world's oil and natural gas, even more hostile to the West than was its Soviet predecessor. How has the US government responded to these unprecedented perils? It doesn't require a degree in international relations or media punditry to understand that the first principle of policy toward post-Communist Russia must follow the Hippocratic injunction: Do no harm! Do nothing to undermine its fragile stability, nothing to dissuade the Kremlin from giving first priority to repairing the nation's crumbling infrastructures, nothing to cause it to rely more heavily on its stockpiles of superpower weapons instead of reducing them, nothing to make Moscow uncooperative with the West in those joint pursuits. Everything else in that savaged country is of far less consequence. Since the early 1990s Washington has simultaneously conducted, under Democrats and Republicans, two fundamentally different policies toward post-Soviet Russia--one decorative and outwardly reassuring, the other real and exceedingly reckless. The decorative policy, which has been taken at face value in the United States, at least until recently, professes to have replaced America's previous cold war intentions with a generous relationship of "strategic partnership and friendship." The public image of this approach has featured happy-talk meetings between American and Russian presidents, first "Bill and Boris" (Clinton and Yeltsin), then "George and Vladimir." The real US policy has been very different--a relentless, winner-take-all exploitation of Russia's post-1991 weakness. Accompanied by broken American promises, condescending lectures and demands for unilateral concessions, it has been even more aggressive and uncompromising than was Washington's approach to Soviet Communist Russia. Consider its defining elements as they have unfolded--with fulsome support in both American political parties, influential newspapers and policy think tanks--since the early 1990s: §_A growing military encirclement of Russia, on and near its borders, by US and NATO bases, which are already ensconced or being planned in at least half the fourteen other former Soviet republics, from the Baltics and Ukraine to Georgia, Azerbaijan and the new states of Central Asia. The result is a US-built reverse iron curtain and the remilitarization of American-Russian relations. §_A tacit (and closely related) US denial that Russia has any legitimate national interests outside its own territory, even in ethnically akin or contiguous former republics such as Ukraine, Belarus and Georgia. How else to explain, to take a bellwether example, the thinking of Richard Holbrooke, Democratic would-be Secretary of State? While roundly condemning the Kremlin for promoting a pro-Moscow government in neighboring Ukraine, where Russia has centuries of shared linguistic, marital, religious, economic and security ties, Holbrooke declares that far-away Slav nation part of "our core zone of security." §_Even more, a presumption that Russia does not have full sovereignty within its own borders, as expressed by constant US interventions in Moscow's internal affairs since 1992. They have included an on-site crusade by swarms of American "advisers," particularly during the 1990s, to direct Russia's "transition" from Communism; endless missionary sermons from afar, often couched in threats, on how that nation should and should not organize its political and economic systems; and active support for Russian anti-Kremlin groups, some associated with hated Yeltsin-era oligarchs. That interventionary impulse has now grown even into suggestions that Putin be overthrown by the kind of US-backed "color revolutions" carried out since 2003 in Georgia, Ukraine and Kyrgyzstan, and attempted this year in Belarus. Thus, while mainstream editorial pages increasingly call the Russian president "thug," "fascist" and "Saddam Hussein," one of the Carnegie Endowment's several Washington crusaders assures us of "Putin's weakness" and vulnerability to "regime change." (Do proponents of "democratic regime change" in Russia care that it might mean destabilizing a nuclear state?) §_Underpinning these components of the real US policy are familiar cold war double standards condemning Moscow for doing what Washington does--such as seeking allies and military bases in former Soviet republics, using its assets (oil and gas in Russia's case) as aid to friendly governments and regulating foreign money in its political life. More broadly, when NATO expands to Russia's front and back doorsteps, gobbling up former Soviet-bloc members and republics, it is "fighting terrorism" and "protecting new states"; when Moscow protests, it is engaging in "cold war thinking." When Washington meddles in the politics of Georgia and Ukraine, it is "promoting democracy"; when the Kremlin does so, it is "neoimperialism." And not to forget the historical background: When in the 1990s the US-supported Yeltsin overthrew Russia's elected Parliament and Constitutional Court by force, gave its national wealth and television networks to Kremlin insiders, imposed a constitution without real constraints on executive power and rigged elections, it was "democratic reform"; when Putin continues that process, it is "authoritarianism." §_Finally, the United States is attempting, by exploiting Russia's weakness, to acquire the nuclear superiority it could not achieve during the Soviet era. That is the essential meaning of two major steps taken by the Bush Administration in 2002, both against Moscow's strong wishes. One was the Administration's unilateral withdrawal from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, freeing it to try to create a system capable of destroying incoming missiles and thereby the capacity to launch a nuclear first strike without fear of retaliation. The other was pressuring the Kremlin to sign an ultimately empty nuclear weapons reduction agreement requiring no actual destruction of weapons and indeed allowing development of new ones; providing for no verification; and permitting unilateral withdrawal before the specified reductions are required. The extraordinarily anti-Russian nature of these policies casts serious doubt on two American official and media axioms: that the recent "chill" in US-Russian relations has been caused by Putin's behavior at home and abroad, and that the cold war ended fifteen years ago. The first axiom is false, the second only half true: The cold war ended in Moscow, but not in Washington, as is clear from a brief look back. The last Soviet leader, Mikhail Gorbachev, came to power in 1985 with heretical "New Thinking" that proposed not merely to ease but to actually abolish the decades-long cold war. His proposals triggered a fateful struggle in Washington (and Moscow) between policy-makers who wanted to seize the historic opportunity and those who did not. President Ronald Reagan decided to meet Gorbachev at least part of the way, as did his successor, the first President George Bush. As a result, in December 1989, at a historic summit meeting at Malta, Gorbachev and Bush declared the cold war over. (That extraordinary agreement evidently has been forgotten; thus we have the New York Times recently asserting that the US-Russian relationship today "is far better than it was 15 years ago.") Declarations alone, however, could not terminate decades of warfare attitudes. Even when Bush was agreeing to end the cold war in 1989-91, many of his top advisers, like many members of the US political elite and media, strongly resisted. (I witnessed that rift on the eve of Malta, when I was asked to debate the issue in front of Bush and his divided foreign policy team.) Proof came with the Soviet breakup in December 1991: US officials and the media immediately presented the purported "end of the cold war" not as a mutual Soviet-American decision, which it certainly was, but as a great American victory and Russian defeat. That (now standard) triumphalist narrative is the primary reason the cold war was quickly revived--not in Moscow a decade later by Putin but in Washington in the early 1990s, when the Clinton Administration made two epically unwise decisions. One was to treat post-Communist Russia as a defeated nation that was expected to replicate America's domestic practices and bow to its foreign policies. It required, behind the facade of the Clinton-Yeltsin "partnership and friendship" (as Clinton's top "Russia hand," Strobe Talbott, later confirmed), telling Yeltsin "here's some more shit for your face" and Moscow's "submissiveness." From that triumphalism grew the still-ongoing interventions in Moscow's internal affairs and the abiding notion that Russia has no autonomous rights at home or abroad. Clinton's other unwise decision was to break the Bush Administration's promise to Soviet Russia in 1990-91 not to expand NATO "one inch to the east" and instead begin its expansion to Russia's borders. From that profound act of bad faith, followed by others, came the dangerously provocative military encirclement of Russia and growing Russian suspicions of US intentions. Thus, while American journalists and even scholars insist that "the cold war has indeed vanished" and that concerns about a new one are "silly," Russians across the political spectrum now believe that in Washington "the cold war did not end" and, still more, that "the US is imposing a new cold war on Russia." That ominous view is being greatly exacerbated by Washington's ever-growing "anti-Russian fatwa," as a former Reagan appointee terms it. This year it includes a torrent of official and media statements denouncing Russia's domestic and foreign policies, vowing to bring more of its neighbors into NATO and urging Bush to boycott the G-8 summit to be chaired by Putin in St. Petersburg in July; a call by would-be Republican presidential nominee Senator John McCain for "very harsh" measures against Moscow; Congress's pointed refusal to repeal a Soviet-era restriction on trade with Russia; the Pentagon's revival of old rumors that Russian intelligence gave Saddam Hussein information endangering US troops; and comments by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, echoing the regime-changers, urging Russians, "if necessary, to change their government." For its part, the White House deleted from its 2006 National Security Strategy the long-professed US-Russian partnership, backtracked on agreements to help Moscow join the World Trade Organization and adopted sanctions against Belarus, the Slav former republic most culturally akin to Russia and with whom the Kremlin is negotiating a new union state. Most significant, in May it dispatched Vice President Cheney to an anti-Russian conference in former Soviet Lithuania, now a NATO member, to denounce the Kremlin and make clear it is not "a strategic partner and a trusted friend," thereby ending fifteen years of official pretense. More astonishing is a Council on Foreign Relations "task force report" on Russia, co-chaired by Democratic presidential aspirant John Edwards, issued in March. The "nonpartisan" council's reputed moderation and balance are nowhere in evidence. An unrelenting exercise in double standards, the report blames all the "disappointments" in US-Russian relations solely on "Russia's wrong direction" under Putin--from meddling in the former Soviet republics and backing Iran to conflicts over NATO, energy politics and the "rollback of Russian democracy." Strongly implying that Bush has been too soft on Putin, the council report flatly rejects partnership with Moscow as "not a realistic prospect." It calls instead for "selective cooperation" and "selective opposition," depending on which suits US interests, and, in effect, Soviet-era containment. Urging more Western intervention in Moscow's political affairs, the report even reserves for Washington the right to reject Russia's future elections and leaders as "illegitimate." An article in the council's influential journal Foreign Affairs menacingly adds that the United States is quickly "attaining nuclear primacy" and the ability "to destroy the long-range nuclear arsenals of Russia or China with a first strike." Every consequence of this bipartisan American cold war against post-Communist Russia has exacerbated the dangers inherent in the Soviet breakup mentioned above. The crusade to transform Russia during the 1990s, with its disastrous "shock therapy" economic measures and resulting antidemocratic acts, further destabilized the country, fostering an oligarchical system that plundered the state's wealth, deprived essential infrastructures of investment, impoverished the people and nurtured dangerous corruption. In the process, it discredited Western-style reform, generated mass anti-Americanism where there had been almost none--only 5 percent of Russians surveyed in May thought the United States was a "friend"--and eviscerated the once-influential pro-American faction in Kremlin and electoral politics. Military encirclement, the Bush Administration's striving for nuclear supremacy and today's renewed US intrusions into Russian politics are having even worse consequences. They have provoked the Kremlin into undertaking its own conventional and nuclear buildup, relying more rather than less on compromised mechanisms of control and maintenance, while continuing to invest miserly sums in the country's decaying economic base and human resources. The same American policies have also caused Moscow to cooperate less rather than more in existing US-funded programs to reduce the multiple risks represented by Russia's materials of mass destruction and to prevent </span>**accidental nuclear war**. More generally, they have inspired a new Kremlin ideology of "emphasizing our sovereignty" that is increasingly nationalistic, intolerant of foreign-funded NGOs as "fifth columns" and reliant on anti-Western views of the "patriotic" Russian intelligentsia and the Orthodox Church. Moscow's responses abroad have also been the opposite of what Washington policy-makers should want. Interpreting US-backed "color revolutions" as a quest for military outposts on Russia's borders, the Kremlin now opposes pro-democracy movements in former Soviet republics more than ever, while supporting the most authoritarian regimes in the region, from Belarus to Uzbekistan. Meanwhile, Moscow is forming a political, economic and military "strategic partnership" with China, lending support to Iran and other anti-American governments in the Middle East and already putting surface-to-air missiles back in Belarus, in effect Russia's western border with NATO. If American policy and Russia's predictable countermeasures continue to develop into a full-scale cold war, several new factors could make it even more dangerous than was its predecessor. Above all, the growing presence of Western bases and US-backed governments in the former Soviet republics has moved the "front lines" of the conflict, in the alarmed words of a Moscow newspaper, from Germany to Russia's "near abroad." As a "hostile ring tightens around the Motherland," in the view of former Prime Minister Evgeny Primakov, many different Russians see a mortal threat. Putin's chief political deputy, Vladislav Surkov, for example, sees the "enemy...at the gates," and the novelist and Soviet-era dissident Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn sees the "complete encirclement of Russia and then the loss of its sovereignty." The risks of direct military conflict could therefore be greater than ever. Protesting overflights by NATO aircraft, a Russian general has already warned, "If they violate our borders, they should be shot down." Worsening the geopolitical factor are radically different American and Russian self-perceptions. By the mid-1960s the US-Soviet cold war relationship had acquired a significant degree of stability because the two superpowers, perceiving a stalemate, began to settle for political and military "parity." Today, however, the United States, the self-proclaimed "only superpower," has a far more expansive view of its international entitlements and possibilities. Moscow, on the other hand, feels weaker and more vulnerable than it did before 1991. And in that asymmetry lies the potential for a less predictable cold war relationship between the two still fully armed nuclear states. There is also a new psychological factor. Because the unfolding cold war is undeclared, it is already laden with feelings of betrayal and mistrust on both sides. Having welcomed Putin as Yeltsin's chosen successor and offered him its conception of "partnership and friendship," Washington now feels deceived by Putin's policies. According to two characteristic commentaries in the Washington Post, Bush had a "well-intentioned Russian policy," but "a Russian autocrat...betrayed the American's faith." Putin's Kremlin, however, has been reacting largely to a decade of broken US promises and Yeltsin's boozy compliance. Thus Putin's declaration four years ago, paraphrased on Russian radio: "The era of Russian geopolitical concessions [is] coming to an end." (Looking back, he remarked bitterly that Russia has been "constantly deceived.") Still worse, the emerging cold war lacks the substantive negotiations and cooperation, known as détente, that constrained the previous one. Behind the lingering facade, a well-informed Russian tells us, "dialogue is almost nonexistent." It is especially true in regard to nuclear weapons. The Bush Administration's abandonment of the ABM treaty and real reductions, its decision to build an antimissile shield, and talk of pre-emptive war and nuclear strikes have all but abolished long-established US-Soviet agreements that have kept the nuclear peace for nearly fifty years. Indeed, according to a report, Bush's National Security Council is contemptuous of arms control as "baggage from the cold war." In short, as dangers posed by nuclear weapons have grown and a new arms race unfolds, efforts to curtail or even discuss them have ended. Finally, anti-cold war forces that once played an important role in the United States no longer exist. Cold war lobbies, old and new ones, therefore operate virtually unopposed, some of them funded by anti-Kremlin Russian oligarchs in exile. At high political levels, the new American cold war has been, and remains, fully bipartisan, from Clinton to Bush, Madeleine Albright to Rice, Edwards to McCain. At lower levels, once robust pro-détente public groups, particularly anti-arms-race movements, have been largely demobilized by official, media and academic myths that "the cold war is over" and we have been "liberated" from nuclear and other dangers in Russia. Also absent (or silent) are the kinds of American scholars who protested cold war excesses in the past. Meanwhile, a legion of new intellectual cold warriors has emerged, particularly in Washington, media favorites whose crusading anti-Putin zeal goes largely unchallenged. (Typically, one inveterate missionary constantly charges Moscow with "not delivering" on US interests, while another now calls for a surreal crusade, "backed by international donors," to correct young Russians' thinking about Stalin.) There are a few notable exceptions--also bipartisan, from former Reaganites to Nation contributors--but "anathematizing Russia," as Gorbachev recently put it, is so consensual that even an outspoken critic of US policy inexplicably ends an article, "Of course, Russia has been largely to blame." Making these political factors worse has been the "pluralist" US mainstream media. In the past, opinion page editors and television producers regularly solicited voices to challenge cold war zealots, but today such dissenters, and thus the vigorous public debate of the past, are almost entirely missing. Instead, influential editorial pages are dominated by resurgent cold war orthodoxies, led by the Post, whose incessant demonization of Putin's "autocracy" and "crude neoimperialism" reads like a bygone Pravda on the Potomac. On the conservative New York Sun's front page, US-Russian relations today are presented as "a duel to the death--perhaps literally." The Kremlin's strong preference "not to return to the cold war era," as Putin stated May 13 in response to Cheney's inflammatory charges, has been mainly responsible for preventing such fantasies from becoming reality. "Someone is still fighting the cold war," a British academic recently wrote, "but it isn't Russia." A fateful struggle over this issue, however, is now under way in Moscow, with the "pro-Western" Putin resisting demands for a "more hard line" course and, closely related, favoring larger FDR-style investments in the people (and the country's stability). Unless US policy, which is abetting the hard-liners in that struggle, changes fundamentally, the symbiotic axis between American and Russian cold warriors that drove the last conflict will re-emerge. If so, the Kremlin, whether under Putin or a successor, will fight the new one--with all the** unprecedented dangers **that would entail. Given different principles and determined leadership, it is still not too late for a new US policy toward post-Soviet Russia. Its components would include full cooperation in securing Moscow's materials of mass destruction; radically reducing nuclear weapons on both sides while banning the development of new ones and taking all warheads off hair-trigger alert; dissuading other states from acquiring those weapons; countering terrorist activities and drug-trafficking near Russia; and augmenting energy supplies to the West. None of those programs are possible without abandoning the warped priorities and fallacies that have shaped US policy since 1991. National security requires identifying and pursuing essential priorities, but US policy-makers have done neither consistently. The only truly vital American interest in Russia today is preventing its stockpiles of mass destruction from endangering the world, whether through Russia's destabilization or hostility to the West. All of the dangerous fallacies underlying US policy are expressions of unbridled triumphalism. The decision to treat post-Soviet Russia as a vanquished nation, analogous to postwar Germany and Japan (but without the funding), squandered a historic opportunity for a real partnership and established the bipartisan premise that Moscow's "direction" at home and abroad should be determined by the United States. Applied to a country with Russia's size and long history as a world power, and that had not been militarily defeated, the premise was inherently self-defeating and certain to provoke a resentful backlash. That folly produced two others. One was the assumption that the United States had the right, wisdom and power to remake post-Communist Russia into a political and economic replica of America. A conceit as vast as its ignorance of Russia's historical traditions and contemporary realities, it led to the counterproductive crusade of the 1990s, which continues in various ways today. The other was the presumption that Russia should be America's junior partner in foreign policy with no interests except those of the United States. By disregarding Russia's history, different geopolitical realities and vital interests, this presumption has also been senseless. As a Eurasian state with 20-25 million Muslim citizens of its own and with Iran one of its few neighbors not being recruited by NATO, for example, Russia can ill afford to be drawn into Washington's expanding conflict with the Islamic world, whether in Iran or Iraq. Similarly, by demanding that Moscow vacate its traditional political and military positions in former Soviet republics so the United States and NATO can occupy them--and even subsidize Ukraine's defection with cheap gas--Washington is saying that Russia not only has no Monroe Doctrine-like rights in its own neighborhood but no legitimate security rights at all. Not surprisingly, such flagrant double standards have convinced the Kremlin that Washington has become more belligerent since Yeltsin's departure simply "because Russian policy has become more pro-Russian." Nor was American triumphalism a fleeting reaction to 1991. A decade later, the tragedy of September 11 gave Washington a second chance for a real partnership with Russia. At a meeting on June 16, 2001, President Bush sensed in Putin's "soul" a partner for America. And so it seemed after September 11, when Putin's Kremlin did more than any NATO government to assist the US war effort in Afghanistan, giving it valuable intelligence, a Moscow-trained Afghan combat force and easy access to crucial air bases in former Soviet Central Asia. The Kremlin understandably believed that in return Washington would give it an equitable relationship. Instead, it got US withdrawal from the ABM treaty, Washington's claim to permanent bases in Central Asia (as well as Georgia) and independent access to Caspian oil and gas, a second round of NATO expansion taking in several former Soviet republics and bloc members, and a still-growing indictment of its domestic and foreign conduct. Astonishingly, not even September 11 was enough to end Washington's winner-take-all principles. Why have Democratic and Republican administrations believed they could act in such relentlessly anti-Russian ways without endangering US national security? The answer is another fallacy--the belief that Russia, diminished and weakened by its loss of the Soviet Union, had no choice but to bend to America's will. Even apart from the continued presence of Soviet-era weapons in Russia, it was a grave misconception. Because of its extraordinary material and human attributes, Russia, as its intellectuals say, has always been "destined to be a great power." This was still true after 1991. Even before world energy prices refilled its coffers, the Kremlin had ready alternatives to the humiliating role scripted by Washington. Above all, Russia could forge strategic alliances with eager anti-US and non-NATO governments in the East and elsewhere, becoming an arsenal of conventional weapons and nuclear knowledge for states from China and India to Iran and Venezuela. Moscow has already begun that turning away from the West, and it could move much further in that direction. Still more, even today's diminished Russia can fight, perhaps win, a cold war on its new front lines across the vast former Soviet territories. It has the advantages of geographic proximity, essential markets, energy pipelines and corporate ownership, along with kinship and language and common experiences. They give Moscow an array of soft and hard power to use, if it chooses, against neighboring governments considering a new patron in faraway Washington. Economically, the Kremlin could cripple nearly destitute Georgia and Moldova by banning their products and otherwise unemployed migrant workers from Russia and by charging Georgia and Ukraine full "free-market" prices for essential energy. Politically, Moscow could truncate tiny Georgia and Moldova, and big Ukraine, by welcoming their large, pro-Russian territories into the Russian Federation or supporting their demands for independent statehood (as the West has been doing for Kosovo and Montenegro in Serbia). Militarily, Moscow could take further steps toward turning the Shanghai Cooperation Organization--now composed of Russia, China and four Central Asian states, with Iran and India possible members--into an anti-NATO defensive alliance, an "OPEC with nuclear weapons," a Western analyst warned. That is not all. In the US-Russian struggle in Central Asia over Caspian oil and gas, Washington, as even the triumphalist Thomas Friedman admits, "is at a severe disadvantage." The United States has already lost its military base in Uzbekistan and may soon lose the only remaining one in the region, in Kyrgyzstan; the new pipeline it backed to bypass Russia runs through Georgia, whose stability depends considerably on Moscow; Washington's new friend in oil-rich Azerbaijan is an anachronistic dynastic ruler; and Kazakhstan, whose enormous energy reserves make it a particular US target, has its own large Russian population and is moving back toward Moscow. Nor is the Kremlin powerless in direct dealings with the West. It can mount more than enough warheads to defeat any missile shield and illusion of "nuclear primacy." It can shut US businesses out of multibillion-dollar deals in Russia and, as it recently reminded the European Union, which gets 25 percent of its gas from Russia, "redirect supplies" to hungry markets in the East. And Moscow could deploy its resources, connections and UN Security Council veto against US interests involving, for instance, nuclear proliferation, Iran, Afghanistan and possibly even Iraq. Contrary to exaggerated US accusations, the Kremlin has not yet resorted to such retaliatory measures in any significant way. But unless Washington** stops abasing and encroaching on Russia**, there is no "sovereign" reason why it should not do so. Certainly, nothing Moscow has gotten from Washington since 1992, a Western security specialist emphasizes, "compensates for the geopolitical harm the United States is doing to Russia." American crusaders insist it is worth the risk in order to democratize Russia and other former Soviet republics. In reality, their campaigns since 1992 have only discredited that cause in Russia. Praising the despised Yeltsin and endorsing other unpopular figures as Russia's "democrats," while denouncing the popular Putin, has associated democracy with the social pain, chaos and humiliation of the 1990s. Ostracizing Belarus President Aleksandr Lukashenko while embracing tyrants in Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan has related it to the thirst for oil. Linking "democratic revolutions" in Ukraine and Georgia to NATO membership has equated them with US expansionism. Focusing on the victimization of billionaire Mikhail Khodorkhovsky and not on Russian poverty or ongoing mass protests against social injustices has suggested democracy is only for oligarchs. And by insisting on their indispensable role, US crusaders have all but said (wrongly) that Russians are incapable of democracy or resisting abuses of power on their own. The result is dark Russian suspicions of American intentions ignored by US policy-makers and media alike. They include the belief that Washington's real purpose is to take control of the country's energy resources and nuclear weapons and use encircling NATO satellite states to "de-sovereignize" Russia, turning it into a "vassal of the West." More generally, US policy has fostered the belief that the American cold war was never really aimed at Soviet Communism but always at Russia, a suspicion given credence by Post and Times columnists who characterize Russia even after Communism as an inherently "autocratic state" with "brutish instincts." To overcome those towering obstacles to a new relationship, Washington has to abandon the triumphalist conceits primarily responsible for the revived cold war and its growing dangers. It means respecting Russia's sovereign right to determine its course at home (including disposal of its energy resources). As the record plainly shows, interfering in Moscow's internal affairs, whether on-site or from afar, only harms the chances for political liberties and economic prosperity that still exist in that tormented nation. It also means acknowledging Russia's legitimate security interests, especially in its own "near abroad." In particular, the planned third expansion of NATO, intended to include Ukraine, must not take place. Extending NATO to Russia's doorsteps has already brought relations near the breaking point (without actually benefiting any nation's security); absorbing Ukraine, which Moscow regards as essential to its Slavic identity and its military defense, may be the point of no return, as even pro-US Russians anxiously warn. Nor would it be democratic, since nearly two-thirds of Ukrainians are opposed. The explosive possibilities were adumbrated in late May and early June when local citizens in ethnic Russian Crimea blockaded a port and roads where a US naval ship and contingent of Marines suddenly appeared, provoking resolutions declaring the region "anti-NATO territory" and threats of "a new Vietnam."**



===2NC Impact Calc=== 

==== ==== 
Impact threshold—relations solve every impact—also solves warming


Collins & Rojansky, 8/18 **– * U.S. Ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001, AND deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment (8/18/10, James F. Collins, Matthew Rojansky, Foreign Policy, “Why Russia Matters,” [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41409]], JMP)**

**A year and a half after Barack Obama hit the "reset" button with Russia, the reconciliation is still fragile, incomplete, and politically divisive. Sure, Russia is no easy ally for the United States. Authoritarian yet insecure, economically mighty yet technologically backward, the country has proven a challenge for U.S. presidents since the end of the Cold War. Recent news hasn't helped: The arrest in July of a former deputy prime minister and leader of the Solidarity opposition movement, Boris Nemtsov, provoked some of the harshest criticism of Russia yet from the Obama administration. Then last Wednesday, Russia announced that it had moved anti-aircraft missiles into Abkhazia, the region that broke off from Georgia during the August 2008 war. The announcement was hardly welcome news for the United States, which has tried to defuse tensions there for the last 24 months. Yet however challenging this partnership may be, Washington can't afford not to work with Moscow. Ronald Reagan popularized the phrase, "Trust, but verify" -- a good guiding principle for Cold War arms negotiators, and still apt for today. Engagement is the only way forward. Here are 10 reasons why: 1. Russia's nukes are still an existential threat. Twenty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Russia has thousands of nuclear weapons in stockpile and hundreds still on hair-trigger alert aimed at U.S. cities. This threat will not go away on its own; cutting down the arsenal will require direct, bilateral arms control talks between Russia and the United States. New START, the strategic nuclear weapons treaty now up for debate in the Senate, is the latest in a long line of bilateral arms control agreements between the countries dating back to the height of the Cold War. To this day, it remains the only mechanism granting U.S. inspectors access to secret Russian nuclear sites. The original START agreement was essential for reining in the runaway Cold War nuclear buildup, and New START promises to cut deployed strategic arsenals by a further 30 percent from a current limit of 2,200 to 1,550 on each side. Even more, President Obama and his Russian counterpart, Dmitry Medvedev, have agreed to a long-term goal of eliminating nuclear weapons entirely. But they can only do that by working together. 2. Russia is a swing vote on the international stage. As one of the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council, Moscow holds veto power over any resolution that the body might seek to pass -- including recent efforts to levy tougher sanctions on Iran or, in 2009, against North Korea following that country's second nuclear test. Russian support for such resolutions can also help persuade China and others not to block them. The post-reset relationship between Moscow and Washington works like a force multiplier for U.S. diplomacy. Russia plays an equally crucial role in the G-8 and G-20 economic groups, helping to formulate a coordinated approach in response to economic threats. In 2008, for example, Russia supported a G-20 resolution promising to refrain from protectionism and avoid new barriers to investment or trade. 3. Russia is big. The country's borders span across Europe, Central and East Asia, and the Arctic -- all regions where the United States has important interests and where it cannot afford destructive competition. With an ongoing counterinsurgency campaign in Afghanistan, the United States has a strong interest in Central Asian stability and relies on Russia not only for direct assistance with logistics and information sharing, but to help manage threats like the recent political upheaval and sectarian violence in Kyrgyzstan. In the former Soviet space, Moscow's historical ties to newly independent states are still fresh and powerful. Moscow is the linchpin to resolving "frozen conflicts" that prevent countries like Moldova, Georgia, and Azerbaijan from prospering economically and moving toward European Union membership. Recently, for example, Moscow signaled renewed interest in resolving frozen conflicts in Nagorno-Karabakh and Transnistria. And despite recent troop movements into Abkhazia, a negotiated settlement is still very possible, one that returns some territory to Georgia but preserves its autonomous status, along with that of its fellow breakaway republic, South Ossetia. 4. Russia's environment matters. As the catastrophic fires across Western Russia have dramatically illustrated, Russia is both a victim of global climate change and a steward of natural resources -- including many of the forests now badly burned -- needed to reverse the global warming trend. With more than one-tenth of the world's total landmass, vast freshwater and ocean resources, plus deposits of nearly every element on the periodic table, Russia is an <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">indispensable partner</span> in the responsible stewardship of the global environment. On climate change, there is work to be done, but progress is evident. Russia today is the world's fourth-largest carbon emitter, but as a signatory to the Copenhagen Accord, it has pledged to reduce emissions to 20 to 25 percent below 1990 levels. Another black spot is Russia's use of "flaring" -- a technique that burns natural gas into the open atmosphere during oil extraction, but Medvedev agreed to capture 95 percent of the gas currently released through flaring. Last year he also signed Russia's first law on energy efficiency, which takes such steps as requiring goods to be marked according to their energy efficiency and banning incandescent light bulbs after 2014. True, most of Russia's other commitments are short on deadlines and concrete deliverables. But like China's cleanup for the Beijing Olympics, Moscow could transform resolve into reality with surprising speed, given the right amount of international engagement. And in the meantime, Russia's natural climate-cleaning properties are vast; the Siberian provinces alone contain more clean oxygen-producing forests and reserves of freshwater than continental Europe. 5. Russia is rich. As the "R" in the famous BRIC grouping of emerging economies, Russia is the 12th-largest market in world, with the third-largest foreign currency reserves. And the country's role in world markets is only growing. Russia is a big player in commodity trading, the country boasts a volatile but increasingly attractive stock exchange, and it is open to foreign investment -- even in state-owned industries. Russian businesses are increasingly looking abroad to form strategic partnerships, acquire assets, and sell their products. And as a country that felt the global financial crisis viscerally -- economic growth fell by almost 8 percent in 2009 -- Russia has a strong interest in making sure there is no repeat. Despite occasional retrenchments, such as the ban on grain exports after the summer fires, Russia is committed to becoming a free-trading World Trade Organization member, and wants more access to U.S. and European technology and management know-how to drive its modernization. Excessive bureaucracy and widespread corruption are the biggest challenges to Russia's further economic growth, but these are already top talking points in Medvedev's modernization drive, and engagement with more transparent Western countries such as the United States can only help. 6. One word: energy. The American way of life depends on stable and predictable commodity prices -- gasoline, natural gas, and coal in particular -- and Russia plays a large role in the global production and pricing of these fossil fuels. Russia alone possesses roughly one-quarter of the world's known gas reserves, and it is currently responsible for over a fifth of global exports. It is the second largest oil-producing state after Saudi Arabia and has the second-largest coal reserves after the United States. The even better news for Washington is that Russia is not a member of OPEC, the cartel of oil-producing countries. This gives the country far more freedom to focus on increasing exports rather than reducing them to keep prices down. When it comes to bringing supply to market, many will no doubt remember the so-called gas wars between Russia and Ukraine and Russia and Belarus that left Eastern Europe in the cold several times in recent years. Much of the trouble is attributable to the legacy of Soviet energy infrastructure in Russia's western neighbors, which put a choke-hold on Russia's gas pipelines. Moscow is currently working with the United States, China, and Western Europe to find a way around this problem, which will entail building new pipelines through the Baltic Sea, Black Sea and Siberia. 7. Russia is a staunch ally in the war on terror (and other scourges). Even during the dark days after the 2008 Russia-Georgia war, Moscow and Washington cooperated effectively on counterterrorism, counternarcotics, infectious disease prevention and response, and other shared security priorities. Recently, the two have worked together under the auspices of the Bilateral Presidential Commission to coordinate relief strategies for catastrophes such as the Haiti earthquake and the violence in Kyrgyzstan. Both Washington and Moscow recognize that swift, well-organized responses to such crises are key to preventing weaknesses from being exploited -- for example by extremist groups who are happy to fill the vacuum of government authority. Russia is also a critical partner in U.S. law enforcement efforts to defeat organized crime and terrorism financing. The two countries are currently working to map smuggling routes in Central Asia. And Russia has shared information with the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates on the informal financial networks used to fund Taliban and Afghan warlords. 8. The roads to Tehran and Pyongyang go through Moscow. Russia maintains unique relationships with Iran and North Korea -- both top concerns on Washington's nuclear nonproliferation radar. In the past, the Kremlin has used its leverage to keep the path open for negotiations, sending senior diplomats to Tehran and offering carrots such as civilian nuclear assistance and weapons sales (though it has deferred the sale of advanced S-300 ground-to-air missiles that could be used to blunt a U.S. or Israeli air strike). Now more than ever, Washington needs allies with that kind of leverage to help punish violators and discourage cascading nuclear proliferation worldwide. Leading by example on nonproliferation is also a must; as the world's biggest nuclear powers, the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates and Russia are looked to as the standard-setters. If they fail to ratify their latest modest step forward on bilateral nuclear arms control, it will be difficult to push other countries to take similar counter-proliferation measures. 9. Russia can be a peacemaker. Moscow has the potential to play a role in the settlement of key regional conflicts -- or if it chooses, to obstruct progress. Russia is a member of the Middle East "Quartet," the six-party talks dealing with North Korean denuclearization, and each of the working groups addressing conflicts in the post-Soviet space, such as the OSCE Minsk group on Nagorno-Karabakh, and the 5+2 group on Transnistria. In such post-Soviet regions in particular, Russia has a unique capacity to contribute to peaceful resolution of territorial disputes by facilitating trade and economic engagement with and between former adversaries, and acting as a peacekeeper once a final settlement is reached. In the Middle East, Russia still controls a network of commercial and intelligence assets and has substantial influence with the Syrians, who should be pushed to play a more productive role in the Arab-Israeli peace process. 10. Russians buy U.S. goods. As the U.S. economy stops and starts its way out of recession, most everyone agrees that boosting exports is a key component in the recovery. And Russia is a big market. U.S. companies such as Boeing, International Paper, and John Deere have invested billions in Russian subsidiaries and joint ventures. In all, there are more than 1,000 U.S. companies doing business there today. They are in Russia not only to take advantage of the country's vast natural resources and highly skilled workers but also to meet the demand for American-branded goods. The Russian middle class wants consumer goods and the country's firms increasingly seek advanced U.S. equipment and machinery. Between 2004 and 2008, before the financial crisis hit, U.S.-Russia trade grew by more than 100 percent to over $36 billion annually, and although that figure dropped by a third in 2009, there is potential for an even better, more balanced trade relationship in the coming decade. In short, Russia is indispensible. As long as the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates participates in the global economy and has interests beyond its own borders, it will have no choice but to maintain relations with Russia. And good relations would be even better.**

Extinction
Cummins and Allen 10**—Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association - Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association (Ronnie and Will, Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century, 14 February 2010, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6, AMiles)**

**The hour is late. Leading climate scientists such as James Hansen are literally shouting at the top of their lungs that the world needs to reduce emissions by 20-40% as soon as possible, and 80-90% by the year 2050, if we are to avoid climate chaos, crop failures, endless wars, melting of the polar icecaps, and a disastrous rise in ocean levels. Either we radically reduce CO2 and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e, which includes all GHGs, not just CO2) pollutants (currently at 390 parts per million and rising 2 ppm per year) to 350 ppm, including agriculture-derived methane and nitrous oxide pollution, or else survival for the present and future generations is in jeopardy. As scientists warned at Copenhagen, business as usual and a corresponding 7-8.6 degree Fahrenheit rise in global temperatures means that the carrying capacity of the Earth in 2100 will be reduced to one billion people. Under this hellish scenario, billions will die of thirst, cold, heat, disease, war, and starvation.**



===2NC - UQ=== 




Russia expanding now

Zeihan 6/15 **(Peter, PhD in Asian Studies, Masters in Political and Economic development, and bachelors in political science. “The Kyrgyzstan Crisis and the Russian Dilemma”. http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100614_kyrgyzstan_crisis_and_russian_dilemma)**

**STRATFOR often discusses how Russia is on a bit of a roll. The U.S. distraction in the Middle East has offered Russia a golden opportunity to re-establish its spheres of influence in the region, steadily expanding the Russian zone of control into a shape that is eerily reminiscent of the old Soviet Union. Since 2005, when this process began, Russia has clearly reasserted itself as the dominant power in Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Ukraine, and has intimidated places like Georgia and Turkmenistan into a sort of silent acquiescence**


===2NC AT US Will Inev Encroach=== 










<span style="text-decoration: none;">Their evidence is just rhetoric </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kramer 5/15 </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">(5/15/10, David J. Kramer, Washington Post, “U.S. abandoning Russia's neighbors”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/05/14/AR2010051404496.html) </span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama and other senior U.S. officials have repeatedly said they do not recognize a Russian "sphere of influence," </span></span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">but actions</span>**, or non-actions,** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">speak louder than those words</span>**. Through its neglect of countries in the region except for Russia, the administration is ceding to Moscow exactly such a sphere. By some counts, Obama has spoken and met with his "friend and partner," President Dmitry Medvedev, more times than with any other leader, including on Thursday. He should use those occasions to lay down clear markers that Russian aggression toward and occupation of its neighbors are unacceptable. He also should start making "friends and partners" elsewhere in the region. Some of these leaders aren't the easiest to get along with, nor are they poster children for democracy and human rights -- but then again, neither are Medvedev and Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin.**

<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Now is key </span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Stratfor 3/8/10</span> **– STRATFOR Global Intelligence**
**[[http://russiaotherpointsofview.typepad.com/files/russia_influence_intro_stratfor.pdf]]**

**A Closing Window Russia has had some success in meeting its goals while the United States has been preoccupied, but it also knows Washington is attempting to wrap up its affairs in Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan and have a freer hand in other areas. For Russia,** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the clock is ticking.</span> **Russia does have the advantage, in that it is easier for the United States to prevent the emergence of a regional hegemon than to control one that has already emerged. The United States’ focus will return to Eurasia after Russia has already made significant progress on its to-do list. But this is not to say that Russia is the definite winner. Russia’s geopolitical imperatives remain: The country must expand, hold together and defend the empire, even though expansion can create difficulties in the Russian core. This is already a difficult task; it will be made even harder when the United States is free to counter Russia.**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">As long as we are in Afghanistan, the US won’t risk encroaching </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Collins 9—</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">member of the former National Epigraphic Society. B.S. in Public and Personnel Management, U Minnesota (Steve, Russia Drawing Usa Deeper into an Afghan Trap, 8 February 2009, http://stevenmcollins.com/WordPress/?p=432, AMiles) </span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This posting is a follow-up to one recently done on the subject of Russia cutting off US landing rights at an airbase in Kyrgyzstan. That action cuts off a “secure” aerial supply line to US troops in Afghanistan even as the overland supply line through Pakistan is growing steadily-more unreliable and dangerous. Russia is manipulating the USA in the “Great Game” in Central Asian politics as easily as a chess grand-master toys with a novice in the game of chess. More information on Russia’s agenda is now clear (but US decision-makers cannot or will not see it). The first link below reports that just after taking action to shut down the US aerial supply route to Afghanistan via Kyrgyzstan, Russia offered the US a ground transportation route to Afghanistan through Russia, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan (all ex-Soviet regions). It is obvious to everyone (except highly-compensated US decision-makers) that Russia is “herding” US troops and war materials into a direction desired by Moscow. Let’s examine the ramifications of this move. Surely, Russia will continue to stir up anti-American fervor in West Pakistan to make the ground supply route through Pakistan ever-more dangerous for convoys with US supplies. This will make the USA ever-more dependent on the ground supply routes through ex-Soviet territory. As the USA becomes more dependent on Russia’s “good will” to supply American forces in Afghanistan, President Obama will be required to submit to Russian desires and demands in order to keep that supply route to Afghanistan open. Also, Russia will be able to close off that supply route whenever it desires to do so in the future for its maximum advantage. The second link below cites US Admiral Fallon’s realistic assessment that Russia’s “…principal motivation is to reassert Russian influence and get visible US presence out of former Soviet Republics.” At least one high military official sees dangers for the US in Russia’s “offer,” but if the Russian desire is to get US presence out of Central Asia, why is it offering the USA a supply line via Russia and its ex-Soviet vassal states? There are at least two reasons. The first reason is that it is powerfully in Russia’s interest to continue “bleeding the US white ” both financially and militarily. By allowing the USA a supply line to Afghanistan via a route totally controlled by Russian forces, Russia enables the US to continue its self-destructive war in Afghanistan. The costs of this war (which President Obama wants to rapidly escalate) will hasten the financial collapse of an already-overburdened US Government. It also permits the USA to continue to weaken its army and military. The small US army is worn out from two Asian wars, as many media articles have documented. It needs rest, but President Obama now intends to further wear it out in Afghanistan. It is a telling sign of how exhausted the US military has become that a recent media article noted that the US army is now losing more soldiers to suicide than to enemy actions. The second reason is that Russia can compel the Obama administration to allow oil and energy prices to go back up to where energy-rich Russia wants them to go. If Obama does not cooperate in this effort, Russia “cuts the cord” and the US forces will have to find their own way out of a hostile Asia. Either the US forces would have to fight their way via western Pakistan to the sea so they could be evacuated “Dunkirk”-style or they would have to be evacuated by the US Air Force in a way which would force the US to leave much of its heavy equipment behind for its enemies to use. There is no good reason for the US to pursue any longer a war in Afghanistan. It makes no sense to waste mega-billions and many lives to pursue a war which cannot accomplish any useful US strategic objective. </span></span>**

<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Future containment won’t be effective—the US will back down </span>
**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Kabalan 6/25</span></span> (Marwan Al, Professor of Political Science and Media at Damascus University, “Russia is reasserting its influence”, http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/russia-is-reasserting-its-influence-1.645812)**

**To do this, the United States sought to expand its influence in the countries surrounding Russia, in a process that would ultimately see Russian influence limited by its borders. US efforts began with the expansion of Nato into the Baltic States in 2004, putting the West on Russia's doorstep. In the second phase of this grand plan, Washington encouraged pro-western political movements in the former Soviet republics. These were the so-called ‘colour revolutions', which began in Georgia in 2003 and moved on to Ukraine in 2004 and Kyrgyzstan in 2005. The Orange Revolution in Ukraine marked a turning point in US-Russian relations, however. At that point, Moscow recognized that the United States was seeking to cripple Russia permanently. After Ukraine turned orange, Russia began to organise a response. Taking advantage of US troubles in Afghanistan and Iraq and the crisis with Iran, Russia began a process of rolling back Washington's influence in the former Soviet republics.** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Its focus on the Islamic world has left Washington with a limited ability </span>**to undermine Moscow, or to counter any Russian response to growing western influence. Knowing that Washington won't remain fixated on the Islamic world for much longer, Russia has accelerated its efforts to reverse western influence in the former Soviet Union, country by country. This year, Moscow has scored a number of major successes. In January, it signed a customs union agreement to economically reintegrate Russia with Kazakhstan and Belarus. Also in January, a pro-Russian government was elected in Ukraine. And now, a pro-Russian government has taken power in Kyrgyzstan. As it seeks to roll back western influence, Russia has tried various approaches in each of the former Soviet republics. These have included political pressure, social instability, economic influence, energy cuts and direct military intervention. Thus far, energy cuts — as applied in Ukraine and Lithuania — have proved most successful. The use of direct military intervention — as seen in Georgia — has also proved successful, with Russia now occupying a third of that country's land. Political pressure in Belarus and Kazakhstan has pushed the two countries into signing the aforementioned customs union. And now with Kyrgyzstan, Russia has proved willing to take a page from the US playbook and spark a revolution along the lines of the pro-western colour revolutions. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Russian strategy has been tailor-made for each country, taking into account their differences in an effort to dominate them — or at least make them adopt a more pragmatic approach</span></span>. With the exception of the Baltic States, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Russia has nearly regained its Cold War geopolitical positions. The US will find that it has a much stronger Russia to deal with when it returns its gaze to Eurasia.</span></span> A titanic battle is hence in prospect in a region that was once described by former US national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski as the world's geopolitical centre of gravity.**






===<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> 2NC Link Biz </span></span>=== 





<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Russia’s window of opportunity to expand its sphere of influence depends on US Preoccupation in Eurasia </span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Stratfor 3/8/10</span> **– STRATFOR Global Intelligence think tank http://russiaotherpointsofview.typepad.com/files/russia_influence_intro_stratfor.pdf**

**<span class="Underline">The Window of Opportunity While Russia reconsolidated, the United States became preoccupied with the Islamic world. As the U.S. wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have developed, they have absorbed Washington’s focus, presenting Russia with an opportunity to push back against the West’s increased influence in Eurasia. It remains unclear whether Russia would have been able to counter the Western infiltration of the former Soviet states if the United States had not been looking elsewhere. But Russia has taken advantage of Washington’s preoccupation to attempt to re-establish its sphere of influence in the former Soviet Union. The U.S. absorption on Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan has not occurred without Russian involvement. Russia has used its connections in the Middle East and Afghanistan as leverage in its negotiations with the United States for years, demanding that Washington outright abandon moves to solidify Western influence in the former Soviet states. Furthermore, Moscow’s plan to expand its influence into the former Soviet sphere depends on Washington’s preoccupation. Thus, Russia has openly supported Iran with political, nuclear and military deals, and has made negotiations for military supply routes into Afghanistan more difficult for the United States and NATO. The geopolitical tug-of-war between Washington and Moscow has not been easy. But while Washington has been preoccupied with its wars, Russia has been able to reconsolidate its influence in countries that never strayed far from Moscow’s hand, such as Belarus and Kazakhstan. Russia proved that the West could not stop it from militarily rolling back into its former territory during the 2008 Russo-Georgian war. Russia’s most crucial victory to date has been in Ukraine, where the top four candidates in the country’s January presidential election were all pro-Russian, thus ensuring the end of the pro-Western Orange movement. The question now is: What does Russia feel it must accomplish before the United States is freed up from its wars in Iraq and Afghanistan or its standoff with Iran? </span>**





==Case== 




===1NC Winning Now=== 



We're winning the war now

Boot 10**—Senior Fellow, CFR. (Max, Afghanistan: The Case for Optimism, 2 September 2010, http://www.cfr.org/publication/22878/afghanistan.html, AMiles)**

**The assumption that underlies all these ideas is that the strategy currently being implemented has already failed. But is that really the case? Having spent the first half of July in Afghanistan along with other scholars at Petraeus's invitation, I am struck by how premature such judgments are—and how reminiscent of attempts to write off the surge in Iraq as a failure when it had barely begun. What I found is a strategy that is only beginning to be implemented, and one that has a good chance of working--provided more attention is paid to ameliorating Afghanistan's crippling governance woes. That will not be easy to do, but it offers a greater likelihood of an acceptable outcome than any realistic alternative. Although U.S. and allied forces have been in Afghanistan for nine years as part of NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), it is only in the past year that they have begun to wage war in earnest. As recently as 2008, there were only 30,000 American troops in the country. By the end of August, there will be close to 100,000—a much greater increase in percentage terms than during the Iraq surge, when U.S. troop levels went from 130,000 to 160,000. General Stanley McChrystal spent much of his year in charge (June 2009-June 2010) simply building up the infrastructure to command and support these forces—a formidable undertaking that involved everything from expanding bases and runways to creating an operational headquarters to manage the war on a daily basis. New command structures were needed to manage detentions and the training and equipping of Afghan security forces, as well as the buildup of top-tier Special Operations Forces such as the SEALs and Delta Force. By the time he was fired in June, McChrystal had just begun to use this nascent infrastructure to carry out a concerted counterinsurgency campaign in key districts around the country. It is still too soon to draw any conclusions about these efforts, which will undergo inevitable adjustment and fine-tuning by Petraeus, because the full complement of surge forces is only now arriving. But** early indications are **relatively** promising**. Certainly, the initial operations are not the failure they have often been made out to be. McChrystal's first major focus was in Marjah, a district in central Helmand Province that I visited in early July. Prior to the Marine-led assault that began in February, Marjah had been completely outside the control of the Afghan government and the international military force. The Taliban had been in charge, and they had used it as a staging ground for attacks elsewhere in southern Afghanistan. Marjah was also a center of the global opium trade, which helps fund the insurgency. Coalition aircraft had even been told not to fly over it because it was too dangerous. Today, six months into Operation Moshtarak, the Marines and their Afghan partners are solidly established in the heart of Marjah and are gradually expanding their control outward. Marines continue to be attacked, but they have already managed to deny the Taliban the use of Marjah as a base. Attacks in neighboring districts, as a result, are down sharply. The operation appears to be a bust only because of the exaggerated expectations of immediate success raised by commanders early on. McChrystal touted what he called “government-in-a box,” which was supposed to come in and instantly displace the Taliban, who had long dominated the area. The box, alas, proved mainly empty. Kabul failed to send enough ministry representatives; the district governor's job went to an illiterate official who had a criminal record in Germany and scant managerial experience; and the Afghan National Civil Order Police, brought in to provide law and order, fell short in discipline, armaments, and training. These highly publicized setbacks created a lasting impression of failure that ignores the strides made since February—including the recent replacement of the first district governor, Haji Zahir, with a candidate who appears, at least on paper, to be better qualified. The Marines with whom I spoke believe that Marjah is on a positive trajectory but that it will require 18 months to become truly stable. That is hardly out of the norm for counterinsurgency operations, which always take time. To see where Marjah may be heading, one needs to look at other districts in central Helmand that the Marines had entered earlier. I visited one such area, Nawa. It had been a virtual ghost town before the Marines arrived last summer. Now the district center is bustling and secure enough that it's possible to walk around without body armor. Other towns in central Helmand such as Garmsir and the provincial capital, Lashkar Gah, are also fairly peaceful. That's quite an achievement in a province that has long been the country's most dangerous. Progress has been made possible not only by American and Afghan troops, who are able to beat the Taliban in any firefight, but also by Afghan officials, who, with considerable coalition help, have proved they can exceed the low expectations of the population. Nawa's district governor, Haji Abdul Manaf, gets high marks for being hard-working and responsive to the needs of the people. Helmand as a whole is governed by Gulab Mangal, who is rated by international officials as one of the most effective and honest provincial governors in the country. In 2008 he replaced a governor whose basement had been found to contain nine tons of opium and heroin. The British, who at the time provided the only substantial foreign military presence in Helmand, threatened to withdraw from Afghanistan unless that governor, Sher Mohammad Akhundzada, was fired by President Hamid Karzai. He was, and this has made progress possible in Helmand: halting and slow progress, admittedly, but progress nonetheless. Much has been written about Afghanistan's governance problems. Its government is said to be weak, ineffective, corrupt, predatory, and resistant to all attempts at improvement. The Washington Post has reported that the attorney general, Mohammed Ishaq Aloko, has impeded attempts to prosecute politically connected malefactors. That is true, but Helmand's recent history shows that reform is possible even without legal action provided that the coalition applies sufficient political will and military muscle. Kandahar Province, next door to Helmand, is the logical next focus of such action. Its capital, Kandahar, is not only one of Afghanistan's largest cities but also the traditional heart of the Taliban movement. I drove through Kandahar in an armored car and found it to be fairly peaceful; there are not many terrorist attacks within city limits. But the outward normality hides the widespread intimidation of the population—not only by the Taliban but also by the government. Kandahar is dominated by Ahmed Wali Karzai, President Hamid Karzai's half brother. Like a big-city political boss of old, Ahmed Wali Karzai sits atop a powerful network of patronage posts and private companies linked to the state. He is generally believed to be complicit in the opium trade, land grabs, extortion, and other rackets. One of the major sources of his power is his relationship with the United States, Canada, and other Western countries. American and Canadian troops have already been deployed to take control of Kandahar's outskirts away from the Taliban. McChrystal's plan within the city itself had been to avoid an all-out assault such as the one in Marjah. Instead he planned to increase the number of American military police, who are partnered with local police, from one company to five companies—a large jump in percentage terms but still fewer than 1,000 soldiers in a city of more than 500,000 people. This probably will not be sufficient to reduce Ahmed Wali's all-pervasive power, considering that the local police are widely believed to be in his pocket. More troops may have to be dispatched—and thanks to the surge, more troops should be available. Coalition forces must try to reduce Ahmed Wali's power and funding and, if possible, to remove him from office altogether as a way to build confidence among the people in their government. He may look unassailable today, but so did Sher Mohammad Akhundzada before his ouster. If they are to succeed in stabilizing Afghanistan, international forces will have to do more than simply spread out across the countryside. They will also have to be more careful about how they employ their resources to prevent their own largess from inadvertently fueling the insurgency. As General Petraeus said in his recently released Counterinsurgency Guidance: “Money is ammunition; don't put it in the wrong hands.” Foreign aid is Afghanistan's chief source of revenue, amounting to an estimated $14 billion a year (out of a total GDP of $23 billion). But so much is currently being stolen and misspent that according to the Washington Post, more than $1 billion a year in cash is leaving Afghanistan via flights to Dubai. It may be impossible to stop the graft altogether, but it can certainly be reduced to less catastrophic proportions through simple steps such as building more accountability into Western contracts for logistics, construction, and other tasks. These lucrative jobs are handed out to prime contractors who are able to navigate a Byzantine legal process and then hire shady subcontractor firms that give kickbacks to Afghan power brokers. This process has led to the proliferation of private security firms, which deploy veritable armies of gunmen to safeguard trucks carrying Western supplies. As noted in a June report from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, “A typical convoy of 300 supply trucks going from Kabul to Kandahar, for example, will travel with 400 to 500 guards in dozens of trucks armed with heavy machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades (RPGs).” Often the contractors will attack people traveling on the highways or living around them to ensure safe passage of their goods. When the contractors can't fight their way through, they simply pay off the Taliban en route. The U.S. is happy not to deploy scarce soldiers for such assignments, but the cost is steep. This process, the House report noted, “fuels warlordism, extortion, and corruption, and it may be a significant source of funding for insurgents ... undercut[ting] efforts to establish popular confidence in a credible and sustainable Afghan government.” As things stand, contractors provide precious little information about where their money goes. Before his dismissal, McChrystal set out to change this unacceptable situation by establishing two task forces to monitor coalition contracts and the local trucking firms that supply them. Petraeus is putting even more emphasis on this area by appointing Brigadier General H.R. McMaster—a brilliant and forceful officer who is famous for writing a popular book about Vietnam and for his success in pacifying Tal Afar, Iraq in 2005-2006—to take charge of anti-corruption efforts. He has only recently arrived but if given time and resources—and cooperation from civilian agencies—he should be able to reduce the funds flowing to malign power brokers and to the Taliban, who have a symbiotic relationship with them. It may also be necessary to redirect some American and Afghan troops to increase security on major roads so as to decrease reliance on private security contractors—something President Karzai has said he would support. Nobody should be under any illusions that such efforts will transform Afghanistan into Switzerland. But that isn't the goal. Afghans, like residents of Illinois and New Jersey, will tolerate a certain degree of corruption. What they won't accept is the brazen, unconstrained thievery practiced by all too many government officials today, who demand a bribe to perform the simplest service, whether allowing a motorist to pass a checkpoint or a farmer to file a legal grievance against an interloper who has stolen his land. Bribes are also necessary to secure many government jobs—which in turn necessitates that officials collect more bribes to pay for the cost of office. A recent survey of 6,500 Afghans by the international group Integrity Watch Afghanistan found that 70 percent perceive corruption as a problem and that 50 percent “consider that corruption fosters the expansion of the Taliban.” The figures are even higher in Kandahar and other areas where, no coincidence, the Taliban have displayed the most strength. If coalition forces, working with honest Afghans (yes, they do exist), can reduce the overall level of corruption, they can do much to reduce the insurgency's appeal. As things stand, the Taliban posture, rather hypocritically, as the incorruptible guardians of Islamic virtue fighting against the crooks who dominate the current government and against the foreign soldiers who are seen as their enablers. Reduce the level of corruption and popular anger will be directed where it belongs—against the Taliban, with their unpopular, antediluvian ideology and history of brutal, horrifying violence. That is a difficult task, but it is no longer as unthinkable as it was when NATO had only 50,000 troops in the country. With 140,000 foreign troops—and 130,000 soldiers in the Afghan National Army, which is widely viewed as relatively clean—ISAF has newfound leverage to take on not only the Taliban but also the abusive practices that enhance their appeal. And in David Petraeus, ISAF has a commander uniquely skilled in the delicate art of fighting alongside a local government while working to reform it.**


The Afghan army is getting better

O’Hanlon 10 **- Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings(Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “A Bright Spot Among Afghan Woes,” Brookings, May 19th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0519_afghan_army_ohanlon.aspx]])**

**A good way to understand what is going right in Afghanistan, rather than fixate on the Karzai government’s limitations, is to spend a few days in the field watching the Afghan army in its recruiting, training and operational planning. I had this opportunity last week. New recruits begin service under the auspices of the NATO Training Mission for Afghanistan, or NTM-A). This is run by Gen. Bill Caldwell, an U.S. Army three-star officer. He and his team have revamped the effort since arriving in late fall. And by all accounts, the U.S. Defense Department is bending over backward to help. NATO is still short on trainers, but that is largely because the Afghan army is growing fast and the previously poor ratios of trainers to soldiers are being corrected. Literacy training is provided to the new Afghan soldiers, for only 11 percent are estimated to be literate. Pay has roughly doubled this year, which helps with retention as well as recruiting. There are still equipment shortages for the Afghan security forces, but that is partly due to the inevitable slowness of the U.S. contracting system. These shortfalls are now being rapidly reduced. New courses have been created for Afghan noncommissioned officers, the leaders crucial to any good military’s performance in the field. Graduates of Afghanistan’s military officer academy, who would have previously been steered to safe jobs by political allies, are now deployed where they are most needed -- in the field. As a result, the Afghan army is now on track to reach its interim goal of 134,000 troops by this fall, and an ultimate size of roughly 171,000 by next year. The pursuit of quantity is not slowing efforts to improve the force’s quality. One indicator of the latter is the number of Afghan soldiers with basic marksmanship proficiency -- previously 35 percent, now 65 percent. But best is how these forces are doing in the field. Formed into units and deployed, they are teamed with NATO units—an Afghan brigade of some 3,000 soldiers might be paired with a U.S. battalion of, say, 1,000, for example, though ratios can vary. And in some places, NATO continues to outnumber the Afghan security forces, at least for now. Those sister units then exercise, patrol and fight together, providing on-the-job training to complement the schoolroom and basic field instruction. With the typical Afghan unit, this process continues for many months -- if not a year or two. In some places, in fact, the development has been so rapid that Afghan Army units are planning and conducting operations on their own—even declining to ask for help in some of them. There is a long way to go, and the police lag the army badly among other problems, with drug abuse and corruption still big challenges. But progress is already palpable. The Afghan Army is the best place I found to look for good news to balance the all too common bad news in Afghanistan. A strong Afghan security force is probably the linchpin of our exit strategy, so this good news should not be underrated.**

The squo solves legitimacy and corruption

Kagan 9 **[Frederick, In Afghanistan, Real leverage Starts with More Troops, Washington Post, American Institute for Public Policy Research, November 27th, http://www.aei.org/article/101363**

**The president will soon announce the deployment of additional U.S. forces to Afghanistan, in a speech likely to emphasize the importance of political progress there. Legitimacy is the most important outcome of a counterinsurgency strategy, not, as some have suggested, an input. It is unfortunate that much of the debate has ignored the role that additional military forces can play in building legitimacy and effective government in a counterinsurgency. Adding forces gives us leverage; military forces are vital to the success of any political strategy because they contribute directly to improving governance as well as to improving security. The recent American experience in Iraq illustrates how U.S. forces and diplomacy helped correct the behaviors of a sometimes malign government in ways that helped neutralize insurgent groups. In early 2007, many Iraqi leaders were using instruments of state to support sectarian death squads. The dysfunctional government could not secure the population, pass laws or provide services to its people. The implementation of a fully resourced counterinsurgency strategy--enabled by the deployment of nearly six additional U.S. combat brigades--transformed Iraq's government within 18 months. Opponents of the surge argued that Iraqis would "step up" politically and militarily only if they knew that U.S. forces would leave. Instead, before committing to the fight, political leaders and populations throughout Iraq assessed whether U.S. forces would stay long enough to secure them. Iraqis stepped up precisely because of the absence of conditionality and time limits on U.S. force levels. If the Afghan government were fully legitimate, there would be no insurgency. U.S. and international actions must aim to improve the Afghan government's ability to provide basic services such as security and dispute resolution nationwide, building the legitimacy of the government in Kabul sufficiently to dampen a large-scale insurgency. They must persuade and even compel Afghan leaders to stop activities that alienate the people and create fertile ground for insurgents. Afghan forces can learn by listening to the exhortations of mentors and by seeing the world's best military perform those tasks. Adding American forces in large numbers would help. It is critical that the Afghan people be provided security. Continuous violence, insurgent intimidation and propaganda campaigns create a pervasive sense of insecurity that undermines the government. As we have seen in Iraq and some parts of Afghanistan, a reduction in violence can slow or stop the erosion of the government's legitimacy. It can also create space in which to resolve underlying tensions that had fueled the violence, through negotiation or the construction of more effective governmental structures, neither of which can occur without security. But American military forces also contribute directly to efforts to improve Afghan institutions. In Afghanistan, as in Iraq, international troops will partner with army and police units. Afghan forces can learn by listening to the exhortations of mentors and by seeing the world's best military perform those tasks. Partnered American units also hinder illegal activities, such as extortion, that Afghan units might otherwise undertake. American military forces can also help restrain politicians' abuses of power. U.S. forces can develop a picture of local power structures, including those through which Afghan officials abuse their power and exacerbate the insurgency. American commanders can collect evidence on individual offenders that a reformed Afghan judicial system would one day be able to use. In the short term, such evidence can be published, embarrassing the official and others involved. Since much of the corruption involves narcotics, the United States and its partners can use international legal mechanisms to pursue Afghan officials in more reliable court systems. We can also threaten to add the worst offenders to our target lists when abuse of power directly supports the enemy. Used systematically, as happened in Iraq, this leverage can dramatically alter the behavior of networks of people misusing their power.**

The US will win - multiple reasons

O’Hanlon 9 **- Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings(Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “In Afghanistan, The Odds Are With Us,” Brookings, December 14th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/1214_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)**

**We face huge challenges in Afghanistan, to be sure. No one watching the news, or hearing President Barack Obama’s sober tone on Dec. 1 at West Point, or listening to testimony from Gen. Stanley McChrystal and Ambassador Karl Eikenberry last week, could doubt that basic reality. But in these serious, difficult times, it is worth remembering all the things that actually are working in our favor in Afghanistan now. First, Afghans want a better future for themselves. This is true for Afghans in their own country, as well as for the Diaspora of Afghans around the world — many of whom have moved back home to help build a new country, others of whom stand ready to invest, trade and assist in other ways. Most Afghans reject war. They also reject the Taliban, by 90 percent or more in most polls. Among the majority of the Afghan people who are not Pashtun, in fact, support for the Taliban is virtually zero. Even among the Durrani, one of the two main Pashtun tribal groupings, support for the Taliban has been limited (the Taliban’s main support has come from the Pashtun Ghilzai tribes). The Taliban is not a popular insurgency. It is in equal parts a narco-terrorist organization willing to use drug smuggling to finance its operations, an extremist Islamist movement with an intolerant view of nonbelievers and a backward view of the role of women, and a ruthless organization willing to use brutal violence against innocent, law-abiding citizens to impose its version of Islam. Yes, it has achieved impressive discipline in its ranks in some ways, and battlefield momentum as well, but it has no positive vision for the country — and Afghans know it. There are also many good and committed “average citizens” in the country today. In Kandahar City citizens are telling authorities about the locations of up to 80 percent of all improvised explosive devices before they go off, allowing security forces to defuse them. This high percentage, higher than ever witnessed in Iraq, further suggests that our efforts to quell the Taliban may have found unexpected support from the general population in one of the Taliban strongholds, support that a counterinsurgency can build upon. Progress is apparent in other places too. In the town of Nawa in Helmand Province, for example, an infusion of U.S. forces in 2009 has turned a previously lawless area held by the Taliban into a relatively secure area where ordinary people can begin to get back to their daily lives. Second, elements of the Afghan security forces are improving fast. This is most true for the army. With NATO’s International Security Assistance Force focused intently now on proper training and mentoring, the building of Afghan security forces that can protect their own people should accelerate. Third, life in Afghanistan has actually improved somewhat compared with the recent past. Yes, the progress is uneven, and the poor remain very badly off. But overall the economy, education, healthcare and similar indicators are moving more in the right direction than the wrong one. Material progress has contributed to a reservoir of goodwill among the Afghan people toward those in authority. President Karzai, the United States, and NATO all still enjoyed at least 60 percent support from the population as of summer 2009 — far better than the United States has enjoyed in Iraq. This popularity number is fragile, and uneven among different groups, but we do have some advantages in how the Afghan public views the situation nonetheless. Fourth, NATO in general and the United States in particular know how to carry out counterinsurgency missions better than ever before. Troops are experienced in the art of counterinsurgency and knowledgeable about Afghanistan. We also have excellent commanders, starting with Central Command Combatant Cmdr. Gen. David Petraeus and Gen. McChrystal, who directs both the NATO forces and the separate, U.S.-led counterterrorism force carrying out Operation Enduring Freedom there. Commanders at much lower levels of authority, the ones who execute the strategy day in and day out, are also seasoned and quite smart in the ways of this type of warfare. The importance of good leadership in counterinsurgency is very significant, and our strengths in this area are a major asset. Fifth, enough troops are now on the way. Until now, on the ground, troop shortages prevented combined Afghan and NATO forces from securing many districts, towns and villages. Worse, it left troops stalemated in dangerous situations over extended periods of time because they did not have the capacity to seize land and sustain control. It left NATO forces relying too heavily on air strikes with all their potential to cause accidental deaths of innocents (a policy that McChrystal has changed; air strikes are generally allowed now only if NATO troops are in direct peril). And it left Afghan citizens who cooperate with NATO and their government vulnerable to reprisal. Only in 2009 did these realities finally begin to change; only in 2010 will we achieve reasonable overall force rations. To predict success outright would be to go too far. But I honestly believe that, setting our sights at a reasonable level, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the odds are with us</span></span> in this important mission.**



===2NC Winning Now=== 




====Generic==== 




All their evidence is based on pre-surge statistics—don’t evaluate it

Nagl, 10 **– President of the Center for a New American Security, and Visiting Professor in the Department of War Studies at King’s College (John, “The proposer's opening remarks,” The Economist online debate, 5/17, http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/516)**

**We waited until 2009 to give the Afghan conflict the resources that success will require. While we focused on Iraq, the Taliban regained strength and reinstituted its previous reign of terror in much of southern and eastern Afghanistan. But with the war in Iraq winding down and a determined international focus on Afghanistan and Pakistan, it is possible over the next five years to build an Afghan government that can outperform the Taliban and an Afghan army that can outfight it, especially with the support of a Pakistani government that continues its own efforts on its side of the Durand Line. During his visit to Washington, President Karzai discussed with President Barack Obama how the political and military efforts are faring and what endstate America will be willing to accept from Taliban negotiators, who are beginning to seek reconciliation with the Afghan government. The fact that elements of the Taliban are contemplating reconciliation is the single best piece of evidence that a successful outcome is possible in an Afghanistan that will require long-term security assistance from the West, but that with that assistance can achieve a reasonable degree of stability.**

We're winning in key regions

a) Sangin

Grant 10—**Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society. MA with honors in history, U Edinborough (George, Succeeding in Afghanistan, http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf, AMiles)**
Note – Sangin = in the Pashtun region, population = 92% Pashtun

**Though the new strategy is still at an early phase, making a firm assessment impossible at this stage, there are nonetheless signs that it is already starting to bear fruit. In Sangin, a region of Helmand province that has hitherto proved extremely difficult to pacify, the number of violent incidents dropped by 80 per cent in the month July-August.41 This has been credited on all sides - by the military, by British officials, and by local Afghans – as the consequence of the newly reinforced counterinsurgency approach. The reinforcement of the British commando battalion stationed there with a battalion of US marines has put sufficient forces on the ground to protect the population centres and block insurgent infiltration routes into the area. This has been combined with an extensive commitment to working more closely with the local population in order to persuade them to restrain tribal elements aligned with the Taliban and to expel insurgents operating amongst them. The efficacy of these efforts has been further enhanced by the existence of another vital component of good counterinsurgency: a commitment to good governance, provided in the form of the widely respected and notably uncorrupt new district governor, Mohammad Sharif.42 Combined with a growing sense of revulsion at the brutality of the insurgentsi, who now account for more than three quarters of civilian deaths, the population-centric counterinsurgency approach being undertaken in Sangin appears to have convinced a critical mass of the population there to withdraw their support for the insurgents and to start lending it to the counterinsurgents.43 “Before, tribes gave space to the Taliban, gave food, support in the night. Now they are not letting them into the irrigated areas [around Sangin]”, one tribal elder told The Times newspaper recently. “Security is better” added another, with a third observing that “people believe now that the Government will support us. If there is peace, they will start reconstruction”.44 The evidence coming out of Sangin at present correlates with the assertion of this report that a properly resourced, population-centric counterinsurgency strategy can work in Afghanistan, and is starting to do so. Though the resources required for this approach are greater in the short-term than the more limited resources hitherto being afforded to the conflict, in the long-term the counterinsurgency approach is undoubtedly more resource efficient since it offers the possibility of lasting - as opposed to merely temporary - progress.**

b) Kandahar
Gearan 10—**AP nat. sec. writer (Anne, Gates sees progress in tour of Afghan war zone, 3 September 2010, http://www.wtop.com/?nid=385&sid=2042954, AMiles)**

**U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Friday he saw and heard evidence that the U.S. counterinsurgency strategy is taking hold in critical Kandahar province. Gates toured U.S. bases and met with troops in the thick of the fighting in Kandahar city and the Taliban haven of Zhari district, west of the city. The birthplace of the Taliban, Kandahar is Afghanistan's second-largest city and a linchpin of the retailored battle plan President Barack Obama announced last year. Even as the U.S. nears the full complement of the troop surge ordered last year by Obama, the region remains a battleground, still far from under full control of the U.S.-backed central government in Kabul. Military commanders know the nearly nine-year war cannot be won without a turnaround in Kandahar, yet goals and plans for the fight there have been vague. The Taliban are fighting back, waging a fear and intimidation campaign to keep local Afghans from siding with international forces and the Afghan government. Gates wanted a firsthand look at operations in the dangerous south where Afghan and international troops are ramping up security. The Obama administration plans a top-to-bottom assessment of the war in December. The review will question whether Obama's strategy is working. "I come away from my visits down here today encouraged," Gates told reporters traveling with him. He said that signs of progress were incremental but growing. Still, he added, "Everybody knows this is far from a done deal." The bulked-up force here is aimed at blunting Taliban momentum on their home ground and setting the stage for a gradual U.S. exit from the war beginning next summer. Gates spoke with a couple dozen U.S. service members in a courtyard ringed with heavily armored all-terrain vehicles designed to help them survive the homemade bombs that are the biggest death threat to coalition troops. "You guys are in the forward foxhole and what makes a difference in the whole campaign is your success here in Kandahar city," Gates told U.S. troops at Camp Nathan Smith, headquarters for U.S. operations in the largest city in southern Afghanistan. The troops were part of the 1st Brigade Combat Team, 4th Infantry Division, which arrived Aug. 18, and has already lost eight soldiers _ seven last Monday alone. "Unfortunately, there are going to be more tough days ahead," Gates said. "You know that better than anybody." One soldier asked Gates why the U.S. doesn't go after insurgents hiding in neighboring Pakistan. The United States is pressing Islamabad to expand its pursuit of insurgents farther into North Waziristan, a border area next to Afghanistan often described as lawless. "I think the likelihood of direct U.S. military engagement in Pakistan is very low," Gates said. For the past 18 months, Pakistan has realized the importance of fighting insurgents on its soil and has effectively squeezed militant groups _ in some cases, concentrating them in North Waziristan. U.S. officials are looking for assurances that Pakistan will not end its efforts there because of the demands created by this year's historic floods. "Everyone understands that the sanctuaries on the other side of the border are a big problem" and the joint U.S.-Pakistan objective is to expunge those hideouts, Gates said. But he noted that recent flooding in Pakistan would delay the government's strike at militants there. From Camp Nathan Smith, Gates traveled west of Kandahar to violent Zhari district, which Lt. Gen. David Rodriguez calls "one of the critical districts" outside the city. Speaking to reporters, Rodriguez predicted that U.S. and Afghan forces will be able to show some progress in Kandahar province before the end of the year and in time for an important end-of-year evaluation of the war by the Obama administration. Rodriguez said the progress would be piecemeal and gradual, predicting Afghans would feel less intimidation from insurgents and local governing councils would be less dominated by local powerbrokers.**






====Afghan Army==== 




This resolves a majority of their offense
Grant 10—**Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society. MA with honors in history, U Edinborough (George, Succeeding in Afghanistan, http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf, AMiles)**

**The final component without which good intelligence-gathering will be much more difficult is an efficient, honest, and properly resourced police force. The failure of the Afghan government and its international partners to properly develop the Afghan National Police (ANP) has been seriously to the detriment of operations in Afghanistan. Not only has training been almost non-existent in many cases, but poor security checks have made the ANP a favourite target for infiltration by insurgents, and low to no pay has led to rampant corruption. Not only has this decimated the ANP’s ability to conduct its day to day policing duties, it has also made it ineffectual as an intelligence gathering organisation. Ordinarily, the police should be one of the primary gatherers of intelligence in an area; a good understanding of the local community and the development of relationships with the people is part of a police force’s raison d’ être. In the case of the ANP, this interaction frequently takes place only to extort money.59 If the people despise the police and cannot even trust that they might not be talking to an insurgent, they will certainly not come to them with intelligence. Fortunately, the current surge of men and resources into Afghanistan has also been accompanied by a renewed emphasis on properly training and equipping the ANP, and improving the Afghan security services generally, and already, vast improvements have been made.60 As late as autumn of last year it was being reported that some areas had just one trainer for every 466 recruits, meaning that in reality, many were not receiving any training whatsoever. The extra resources and focus on developing the Afghan security services has seen that figure fall dramatically to one trainer for every 29 recruits.61 This development of Afghanistan’s indigenous security services is obviously a pre-requisite for success. Western forces will not be in Afghanistan forever, and it is therefore vitally important that this commitment to enhancing domestic capacity continues.**

Key framing question
Michaels 8/11 **(Jim, Afghan troops reach 240,000 goal early, 11 August 2010, http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/afghanistan/2010-08-11-1Abenchmark11_ST_N.htm, AMiles)**

**NATO has reached its goal of expanding the size of Afghanistan's army and police to 240,000 three months ahead of schedule, achieving a key measurement that will be used to gauge progress in the war. The size and quality of Afghan security forces will be a central part of a review that the White House will be conducting in December to measure the effectiveness of its strategy of emphasizing protecting civilians in Afghanistan. The improved recruitment and retention follow a pay raise and improvements in a payroll system. NATO has also increased the number of trainers dedicated to working with Afghan soldiers. "Before we were training them very quickly and throwing them into the fight," said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., a member of the Armed Services Committee. "It didn't work too well." MORE: Afghanistan war toll hits high mark DATABASE: American casualties in Iraq, Afghanistan, and beyond The quality of the recruits is also improving, according to statistics. A year ago, only about 25% of the soldiers graduating from basic training passed a weapon-qualification test. Today, between 90% and 95% pass the test, said Jack Kem, deputy director of the NATO Training Mission in Afghanistan. The size of the Afghan army has increased to 134,000 soldiers, up from about 97,000 in November, according to NATO. The police are at 109,000 now, up from about 95,000 in November. The plan is to increase the size of the forces further in the coming year. The quality and number of troops are only one goal that will be used to assess the White House's Afghanistan strategy, but the goal is considered a critical one. "Perhaps the most important point is the development in Afghanistan of the national security forces," said Sen. Ben Nelson, D-Neb., a member of the Armed Services Committee. The December assessment will measure a broad range of issues, including the viability of markets and level of government corruption, according to the White House. It will cover strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. The review will use a set of congressionally mandated targets that are already being reported to Congress, but will also include other information. Commanders in Afghanistan are already routinely collecting data detailing everyday life for Afghan civilians. "I'm trying to measure things like what the prices might be in the bazaar," British Maj. Gen. Nick Carter, commander of allied forces in southern Afghanistan, said Tuesday. "I'm trying to measure the extent to which life is returning to normality." The level of violence will also be included in the review, but it is at best an ambiguous measure and can be misleading. In Iraq, violence initially went up as U.S. forces challenged the dominance of insurgents in their strongholds under a strategy called "the surge."**





====Corruption==== 




We control uniqueness
a) Corruption decreasing
Graham 5/18 **[Ian, Emerging Media @ DoD, “Pay Raises, Training Combat Afghan Corruption,” http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=59235]**

**Corruption has constituted a viable threat in Afghanistan for some time, but measures are being taken there to help keep Afghan officials honest. Increased training, as well as salary and compensation reforms for Afghan police and soldiers are among the tools being employed to reduce corruption, Army Col. Thomas J. Umberg, chief of anti-corruption activities for NATO Training Mission Afghanistan, said in a “DoD Live” bloggers roundtable yesterday. When officials don’t need to take bribes or behave unethically to pay the bills and feed their families, Umberg explained, corruption will decrease across the board. “If you don't have systems in place that limit opportunities for corruption, you're going to have it,” Umberg said. “And then, if you don't pay adequate salaries, then you also create an environment for corruption.” Umberg explained that Afghan soldiers and police historically were underpaid, due in part to their pay system. Rather than being paid in regular installments by the government, soldiers received pay from their leadership, who received a budget for salaries. “The … commander would receive the pay for all his soldiers or patrolmen,” the colonel explained, “and then [would] pay the soldiers and patrolmen as he thought appropriate. As you can imagine, that provided opportunity for all sorts of different methods of payment.” Now, Umberg said, about 95 percent of Afghan soldiers receive electronic direct deposits for their paychecks, and police are receiving a living wage. Police have been problematic, he added, because they’ve resorted in some cases to “shaking down” people on the street for their pocket money. Starting patrolmen make $165 monthly, though if they work in a more hostile area, such as southern Afghanistan, they can make as much as $240 a month. “And in the past, when the patrolmen were grossly underpaid, there were challenges just sort of surviving,” Umberg said. “And today, on $165 or $240, you can live in Afghanistan. Now, you can't live all that well, but you certainly can live. So that's one way to meet the challenge.” Training also has helped to reduce corruption. Previously, local stations were given the responsibility of training new recruits on corruption. That has proven to be ineffective for a number of reasons, Umberg said. Now, anti-corruption training is centralized and given before a patrolman reports for duty. “Part of the training consists of training with respect to ethics and corruption, and the Islamic and Quranic underpinnings with respect to, in essence, stealing from the community,” Umberg said. “Because that's what you're doing when you shake down folks or engage in that kind of graft: you're stealing from the community.” The training is very careful to focus on underlying beliefs that prohibit corruption and other dishonest behavior, the colonel said. Because the Quran and Islamic teachings deter dishonesty, there isn’t a feeling of imposing ideas on Afghan trainees, said he added. “We define corruption as where you put your personal interests above that of your job or your mission,” he said. “So for example, if you are hiring someone based on criteria other than who would do the best in that job, that's corruption. Obviously, to take a bribe, that's corruption -- you take a bribe to do something that is a detriment to the mission.” Corruption, ethics and issues of honesty are fairly universal ideals, so it’s not really necessary to tailor the training to any sort of “cultural norm,” the colonel said. “I don't think we need to impose Western values,” he said. “The Islamic and Quranic underpinnings -- as you know, virtually everyone here is Muslim -- they're pretty strong and profound with respect to corruption. So we don't need to impose our values upon them.” Umberg said he sees hope in young Afghans who don’t see modernization as a bad thing. They have strong faith, family values and national pride, he said, and those things make them want to make a better Afghanistan. “I was on an investigation several months ago, and a young, 24-year-old sergeant was reporting corruption on behalf of a senior officer -- at some risk to himself,” Umberg said. “I asked him how he had the courage to come forward, and he said, ‘I do this for my faith, my family and my country. I'm staying here.’”**

Solves across the board

Kerner 10, **professor at the US Army Command and General Staff College, 10 (3/24, Jack, “Afghanistan: Fighting Corruption”, Combined Arms Center Blog, http://usacac.leavenworth.army.mil/blog/blogs/reflectionsfromfront/archive/2010/03/24/afghanistan-fighting-corruption.aspx, jjr**

**In the past month, the Afghan government has made significant progress in addressing the issue of corruption. The Afghan National Police have taken a number of steps to restore confidence in the police with the Afghan people. The recently released Afghan National Police Strategy (ANPS) states that the national interests of Afghanistan and the threats to them entail the need to “eliminate corruption all over the country.” The strategy further identifies corruption as one of the primary problems within the Afghan National Police: Corruption in the police force directly affects our poor people and never goes unheeded by the public. This unfortunate phenomenon erodes the trust and confidence of our people which the police must earn in order to be a valued institution. Also, corruption in the police force is a betrayal to the cause for which so many of our brave brothers and sisters in police uniform have made the ultimate sacrifice. The police, together with our judicial system, are responsible for the enforcement of the law and must set an example by eradicating all forms of corruption within the MoI. The Afghan National Army has additionally made significant efforts in the past month towards addressing the issue of corruption. Two new documents providing strategic direction for the Afghan National Army were recently published which addressed corruption; the National Military Strategy (NMS) specifically identified national interests that included “implementation of a comprehensive anti-corruption strategy.” The Guidance for Operational Planning (GOP) directly addressed corruption as a major threat to the security of Afghanistan: The effective establishment of the rule of law depends on the ability to detect, prosecute, and punish corruption. The existence of corruption in government organizations (bribery, patronage, misuse of power, selfish motives, etc.), diminishes popular support from the counterinsurgency effort. Funding and resources, which should go to the communities in greatest need, instead flow into the coffers of the greedy.**

b) Governmental legitimacy increasing
O’Hanlon and Sherjan 10 **- Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings AND President of Aid Afghanistan for Education (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, Hassina, President of Aid Afghanistan for Education, “The Tide May Be Turning In Afghanistan,” Brookings, February 16th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0216_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)**

**One of us (Sherjan) helped start girls education programs in Afghanistan even before the 2001 war, when the Taliban largely banned them. Even then, Afghans were yearning to move forward into the 21st century. Today, with the support of allied forces, they have a chance. She knows that much of the world sees the Afghan people as backward and wanting to reject those beyond its borders. Her experience, however, shows that this isn't the case. For the other (O'Hanlon), observing Afghans voting last August was inspirational. True, the threat of violence kept turnout quite low, but those who did vote were proud to do so. The defiant election workers and even the oft-criticized Afghan police showed the world that the government can function competently despite decades of civil war and weak state rule before 2001. Yet it is not simply our personal opinions or experiences that give us hope. Two new and encouraging polls that have received little attention to date in the U.S. back us up. They are important to bear in mind — not least for the U.S. Congress, which will soon be called upon to consider additional funding for Afghanistan. While polling is always inexact and potentially misleading, these surveys were done by professional organizations that in fact had found less positive trends before in earlier polls — bolstering their credibility now. Something about Afghanistan is again showing promise. Promising polls Start with the resilience and hopefulness of the people. A major poll conducted late last year by the BBC, ABC and German TV company ARD showed that 71% of Afghans believe life will get better. Similarly, a poll in November by the International Republican Institute, which promotes political party building and democracy abroad, shows that 56% of Afghans believe the country is headed in the right direction; only 27% believe it is headed downward. By contrast, just 30% were optimistic last spring. These numbers have significance beyond reflecting a temporary improvement in the Afghan mood. They suggest a renewed sense that the Taliban — which remains extremely unpopular, with favorability ratings of less than 10% — will be defeated. The Afghan people are not ambiguous on this score, reflecting a feeling that the current Afghan government and the international community can prevail in this epic battle. Belief in the government is important because Afghans like to go with a winner, or front-runner. Such support can snowball as people begin to gain confidence that the Taliban is not, in fact, coming back. Reversing this psychological trend is critical.**

c) Squo solves
O’Hanlon 10 - **Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy @ Brookings (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy @ Brookings, "Deposits Could Aid Ailing Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 16th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0616_afghanistan_minerals_ohanlon.aspx)**

**Second, the mineral deposits: The Defense Department’s office for economic investment activities in war zones, headed by the formidable Paul Brinkley, has concluded that Afghanistan may, in fact, be rich. Not just in its poppies, or its ability to attract foreign aid, but in actual resource wealth buried in the ground. Its iron, copper, lithium and other deposits may be worth more than $1 trillion. If they can generate even $10 billion a year for the Afghan state, that would nearly double the nation’s gross national product. This could also provide a long-term funding source for Afghan security forces and other major national needs. Critics and skeptics point out that resource wealth is often corrupting, especially in developing countries. Some of the world’s biggest producers of key minerals, gems and oil, for example, are among the world’s most kleptocratic economies. For such income streams often benefit only a narrow stratum of society rather than the population as a whole. They can also skew exchange rates, in what is known as “Dutch disease” — making it harder for farmers and small businessmen to sell goods abroad. Such concerns are real, and Afghans have to be attentive to this risk as they design contracts for the mining work. But mineral wealth will hardly introduce corruption, which is already well established in the country. Indeed, mineral wealth could provide the Afghan government and international community with opportunities to tackle some key economic problems that have long plagued the country. With the right strategy, it could even help reduce corruption. First, it could provide a long-term funding source that could gradually replace foreign aid. It could pay for Afghanistan’s army and police force, schools, health clinics and infrastructure, like the irrigation systems and roads needed by farmers. Lack of such prospective funding is partly why Afghanistan’s government has not been able to build adequate security forces or infrastructure. Second, with the money from natural wealth, Kabul could increase salaries of key ministers and other government employees. This would, in turn, deprive these officials of the excuse to take bribes to compensate for unacceptably low paychecks. Combined with improved means of ferreting out corrupt officials — which has already led to arrest or indictment of as many as 20 officials this year — the new funding source could help address corruption over the long term. Claiming a big turnaround from this recent news would go too far. The Taliban and Haqqani network still need to be weakened on the battlefield, and Afghan governance needs to improve quite a bit. But there is indeed reason for hope in Afghanistan.**





====AT Terrorists Cross Border==== 




Squo solves border crossing
Kagan, 9 **-- former prof of military history @ West Point (Fredrick W., “A Stable Pakistan Needs a Stable Afghanistan”, 9/5/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/100986)**

**Winning the war in Afghanistan--creating a stable and legitimate Afghan state that can control its territory--will be difficult. The insurgency has grown in the past few years while the government's legitimacy has declined. It remains unclear how the recent presidential elections will affect this situation.**
**Trying to win in Afghanistan is not a fool's errand, however. Where coalition forces have conducted properly resourced counterinsurgency operations in areas such as Khowst, Wardak, Lowgar, Konar and Nangarhar Provinces in the eastern part of the country, they have succeeded despite the legendary xenophobia of the Pashtuns.**
**Poorly designed operations in Helmand Province have not led to success. Badly under-resourced efforts in other southern and western provinces, most notably Kandahar, have also failed. Can well-designed and properly-resourced operations succeed? There are no guarantees in war, but there is good reason to think they can. Given the importance of this theater to the stability of a critical and restive region, that is reason enough to try.**
**Pakistan's stability cannot be secured solely within its borders any more than can Afghanistan's.**
**Critics of the war have suggested we should draw down our troops and force Pakistan to play a larger role in eliminating radical extremists. American concerns about al Qaeda and Taliban operating from Pakistani bases have led to the conventional wisdom that Pakistan matters to the U.S. because of what it could do to help--or hurt--in Afghanistan. The conventional wisdom is wrong as usual.**
**Pakistan is important because it is a country of 180 million Muslims with nuclear weapons and multiple terrorist groups engaged in a mini-arms race and periodic military encounters with India--the world's most populous state and one of America's most important economic and strategic partners. Pakistan has made remarkable progress over the last year in its efforts against Islamist insurgent groups that threatened to destroy it. But the fight against those groups takes place on both sides of the border. The debate over whether to commit the resources necessary to succeed in Afghanistan must recognize the extreme danger that a withdrawal or failure in Afghanistan would pose to the stability of Pakistan.**
**Pakistan's ambivalence toward militant Islamist groups goes back decades. The growth of radical Islamism in Pakistan dates to the 1970s and '80s when the government encouraged radicalism both for domestic political reasons and to combat Soviet encroachment. The Pakistani government, with U.S. support, established bases in its territory for Afghan mujahedeen (religious warriors) fighting the Red Army.**
**When Afghanistan descended into chaos in the '90s following the Soviet withdrawal, Pakistan intervened by building the Taliban into an organization strong enough to establish its writ at least throughout the Pashtun lands. Links forged in the anti-Soviet war between Pashtun mujahedeen and Arabs from the Persian Gulf remained strong enough to bring Osama bin Laden to the territory controlled by mujahedeen hero and Taliban leader Jalalluddin Haqqani. The 9/11 attacks were planned and organized from those bases.**
**The 9/11 attacks caught Pakistan by surprise and forced a radical, incoherent and unanticipated change in Pakistan's policies. Under intense pressure by the U.S., including an ultimatum from Secretary of State Colin Powell, Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf chose to ally with America against Pakistan's erstwhile Afghan and Arab partners. Mr. Musharraf long tried to channel his own and U.S operations narrowly against al Qaeda while diverting them from the remnants of the Taliban (whom elements of the Pakistani intelligence services continued to support).**
**But U.S. pressure to act in Pakistan's tribal areas and the inexorable logic of the conflict led Pakistan to take actions that brought it into open conflict with some insurgent groups. Those groups in turn came to see Pakistan itself as their main enemy. By 2004, Pakistan faced a serious and growing insurgency in its tribal areas. By 2008 that insurgency had spread beyond the tribal areas into more settled areas such as the Swat River Valley. By 2009 it had metastasized to the point where Punjabis and not just Pashtuns were fighting the Pakistani government.**
**Pakistan turned an important--and little noticed--corner in its fight against its own Islamist insurgents this summer. The Pakistani military drove the Pakistani Taliban out of Swat and the surrounding areas, including much of the northern part of the tribal areas. Most recently, Pakistani military operations (with covert American support) decapitated the most dangerous Pakistani Taliban group based in Waziristan by killing its leader, Beitullah Mehsud. He was thought to be responsible for the assassination of Benazir Bhutto.**
**In contrast with previous such efforts, the current Pakistani government has retained significant military force in all of these areas and so far appears to be continuing the fight even after these successes. Remarkably, the combat divisions now holding Swat and other areas in the northwest of Pakistan are among those most critical to Pakistan's strategy to defend against the always-feared Indian attack.**
**But as American and NATO forces in Afghanistan discovered, the fight against the Taliban must be pursued on both sides of the border. Pakistan's successes have been assisted by the deployment of American conventional forces along the Afghanistan border opposite the areas in which Pakistani forces were operating, particularly in Konar and Khowst Provinces.**
**Those forces have not so much interdicted the border crossings (almost impossible in such terrain) as they have created conditions unfavorable to the free movement of insurgents. They have conducted effective counterinsurgency operations in areas that might otherwise provide sanctuary to insurgents fleeing Pakistani operations (Nangarhar and Paktia provinces especially, in addition to Konar and Khowst). Without those operations, Pakistan's insurgents would likely have found new safe havens in those provinces, rendering the painful progress made by Pakistan's military irrelevant.**

They won’t be able to resurge

Grant 10—**Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society. MA with honors in history, U Edinborough (George, Succeeding in Afghanistan, http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf, AMiles)**

**It is the need to keep the population angry and disenchanted with the government and its allies that explains why insurgents actively target humanitarian aid workers and reconstruction teams. Although these workers may claim to be neutral actors seeking only to serve the population, what they are in fact doing is improving conditions on the ground under the auspices of the Afghan government, and threatening the insurgency’s entire narrative in the process. Those critics of the conflict who argue that the Clear, Hold, Build strategy is futile because it will merely compel the insurgents to lie low until such time as Western forces withdraw misunderstand the nature of this conflict. The insurgents cannot afford to allow the domestic security and economic infrastructure to develop unmolested to such a level that not only will insurgents find it extremely difficult to launch attacks and to threaten the population, but that the population decides to switch its allegiance to the government altogether.**




====AT Terrorists Indistinguishable==== 





COIN solves

Grant 10—**Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society. MA with honors in history, U Edinborough (George, Succeeding in Afghanistan, http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf, AMiles)**

**Though the separation of the population from the insurgency is vital in order to succeed in Afghanistan, this is of course easier said than done. This is especially so in a country such as Afghanistan, where insurgents are often physically indistinguishable from the population, and indeed, often are the population. No operation of this nature can succeed, therefore, without good intelligence. It makes it almost impossible to distinguish the insurgent from the civilian before he opens fire, in turn making it exceedingly difficult to engage militarily on anything but the insurgent’s terms. Moreover, in addition to reducing the likelihood of successful contacts with insurgency, lack of intelligence also increases the likelihood of generating civilian casualties, which is absolutely the last thing that needs to happen if the support of the people is to be won. This is why it is so important that the intelligence-gathering effort is taken seriously and is properly resourced at every level. Poor intelligence about the insurgency was another failure that marred ISAF operations when they commenced in the south in 2006. Newly-arrived NATO officers described the intelligence available to them at the time as “appalling”, and were shocked to discover that between 2002-2005, the US had not actually monitored Taliban activity in four provinces in the south, nor in the Taliban leadership’s base in Quetta in Pakistan, at all. Ironically enough, the reason for this was because the Americans did not believe any al-Qaeda leaders were operating there, and it was the elimination of al-Qaeda, not nation-building, that dictated the course of US operations between 2001-5.55 Good intelligence on insurgents will tend to come from four main sources. First, advanced monitoring technology such as satellites, radio-intercepts and similar electronic intelligence; second, the operations of professional agents on the ground; third, from captured or surrendered insurgents, and fourth from the local population amongst whom the insurgents operate. It is beyond the remit of this report to go into specific intelligence-gathering techniques on the technological or professional level, except to say that such activity needs to be properly resourced, as it was not in Afghanistan in the early part of the conflict, and it needs to be as well integrated as possible. It is not sufficient for one intelligence branch to gather information in an area without ensuring that this information is then shared with others who may be in need of it. The Afghan Mission Network (AMN), a project aimed at improving intelligence-sharing among forces in Afghanistan, is a good example of the commitment to integrating intelligence efforts that is so important in a conflict such as this.56 Moreover, it is also important that collaboration takes place with other intelligence agencies. This is especially relevant in Afghanistan, where cross-border insurgent activity, particularly into Pakistan, is pervasive. The main argument that needs to be put forward here, however, is that much of the most vital intelligence on insurgent activity will come from daytoday interaction between the counterinsurgents and ordinary members of the population. This makes the case once again for the counterinsurgency approach, where the emphasis is very much on extensive interaction with the people. This is extremely important, because as well as getting a better sense of the dynamics and potential grievances at play in an area that is the natural corollary of such interaction, the people are also more likely to be forthcoming with intelligence if they come to know and trust those to whom they are imparting that information.**




===1NC Terror=== 




Terrorism declining

Sageman, 9 - **adjunct Associate Professor at the School of International and Public Affairs and former case officer for the CIA (Marc, “Confronting al-Qaeda: Understanding the Threat in Afghanistan,” Perspectives on Terrorism, vol. 3 n.4, http://www.terrorismanalysts.com/pt/index.php?option=com_rokzine&view=article&id=92&Itemid=54)**

**5. Counter-terrorism is working. The escalation from a more limited and focused counter-terrorism strategy to a larger combined counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency strategy (in a country devoid of the al-Qaeda presence!) is predicated on the assumption that the terrorist threat is either stable or increasing – meaning that counter-terrorism has failed. The timeline graphs clearly show that the threat is fading, from its high water mark of 2004. There has been no global neo-jihadi terrorist casualty in the United States in the past eight years and none in the West in general in the past four years. Of course, al-Qaeda is not dead as long as its top leadership is still alive. This cannot be attributed to a loss of intent from al-Qaeda and its militant rivals. From all indications, including recent debriefs of terrorist wannabes captured in Pakistan and the West, the respective leaders of global neo-jihadi terrorism are still enthusiastically plotting to hit the West and do not hesitate to proclaim their desire on the Internet. Nor is this due to the counter-insurgency in Afghanistan because al-Qaeda and its allies all have their training facilities in Pakistan. It is due to effective counter-terrorism strategy, which is on the brink of completely eliminating al-Qaeda. A dead organization will not be able to return to Afghanistan. 6. The reasons for the effectiveness of the counter-terrorism strategy so far are multiple. First and foremost is al-Qaeda’s inability to grow. Unlike the pre-9/11/01 period, al-Qaeda leaders have generally not incorporated new recruits among its ranks. The leadership of al-Qaeda still harks back to the fight against the Soviets in the 1980s. Because he has been hiding full time, Osama bin Laden has not been able to appoint and train a new group of top leaders and there is no evidence that he trusts anyone whom he has not known from the anti-Soviet jihad. In the 1990s, al-Qaeda incorporated the brightest and most dedicated novices who came to train in its network of camps in Afghanistan. They became its cadres and trainers. In the past five years, al-Qaeda has not been able for the most part to incorporate new recruits among its ranks. Western novices traveling to Pakistan in the hope of making contact with al-Qaeda have been turned around and sent back to the West to carry out terrorist operations. Meanwhile, the success of the Predator drone strike campaign on the Pakistani border has dramatically thinned the ranks of both al-Qaeda leaders and cadres. Now it appears that these strikes are also targeting al-Qaeda allies with a transnational agenda.**

Al Qaeda isn’t key to terrorism

Sageman, 9 - **adjunct Associate Professor at the School of International and Public Affairs and former case officer for the CIA (Marc, “Confronting al-Qaeda: Understanding the Threat in Afghanistan,” Perspectives on Terrorism, vol. 3 n.4, http://www.terrorismanalysts.com/pt/index.php?option=com_rokzine&view=article&id=92&Itemid=54)**

**The above statistics are crystal clear: 78% of all global neo-jihadi terrorist plots in the West in the past five years came from autonomous homegrown groups without any connection, direction or control from al-Qaeda Core or its allies. The ‘resurgent al-Qaeda’ in the West argument has no empirical foundation. The paucity of actual al-Qaeda and other transnational terrorist organization plots compared to the number of autonomous plots refutes the claims by some heads of the Intelligence Community [4] that all Islamist plots in the West can be traced back to the Afghan Pakistani border. Far from being the “epicenter of terrorism,” this Pakistani region is more like the finishing school of global neo-jihadi terrorism, where a few amateur wannabes are transformed into dangerous terrorists.**

No internal link—Al Qaeda doesn’t need a sanctuary to launch from
Metz 10—**Chairman: Regional Strategy, and Planning; Research prof of nat sec affairs, Strategic Studies Institute, Naval War College. PhD, John’s Hopkins (Steven, America's Flawed Afghanistan Strategy, August 2010, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=1014, AMiles)**

**Both the Bush and Obama strategies assume that al-Qaeda needs state support or sanctuary. That, after all, is the fundamental rationale for continued American involve-ment in Afghanistan. But throughout the “war on terror,” no one has made a persuasive case that the September 11, 2001, attacks would not have happened had al-Qaeda not had bases in Afghanistan. While it may take meetings and phone calls to plot terrorism, these can be done from nearly anywhere. Al-Qaeda's Afghanistan sanctuary was a con-venience, not a necessity. Destroying the sanctuary has not stopped bin Laden and his henchmen from plotting new attacks. Why, then, should the United States devote billions of dollars fighting the Taliban in Afghanistan if doing so has little effect on al-Qaeda's ability to launch terrorism? The answer says more about the way Americans think than it does about how terrorists operate. The United States has expended great effort to eradicate al-Qaeda's bases and training camps less because they were important than because we are effective at it. There is an old saying that, “when all you have is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.” America has an amazing hammer—its military—which is very good at seizing and controlling territory. So, we reasoned, eradicating bases and training camps will cripple al-Qaeda. Yet there is no evidence to validate this idea.**

No impact to al-Qaeda sanctuary in Afghanistan
Metz 10—**Chairman: Regional Strategy, and Planning; Research prof of nat sec affairs, Strategic Studies Institute, Naval War College. PhD, John’s Hopkins (Steven, America's Flawed Afghanistan Strategy, August 2010, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=1014, AMiles)**

**Finally, the Obama strategy assumes that if the Taliban regained control of some or all of Afghanistan and did, for some reason, provide support and sanctuary to al-Qaeda, this would increase the threat to the United States and the other NATO count-ries. Again, this overlooks history. Al-Qaeda was able to plot terrorism from Afghanis-tan because the United States was unaware of the impending danger. Had America known what was coming, it certainly would have rendered al-Qaeda's Afghanistan bases useless even without a full scale invasion. There is no reason to believe that if al-Qaeda somehow recreated its pre-September 11 Afghanistan sanctuary that the United States would not quickly destroy it.**

Afghanistan not key—Yemen is more important

Freeman 10—**foreign correspondent (Colin, 1 9, The Irish Times, “Divisions Create Breeding Ground for Terrorism,” Lexis Nexis)**

**Experts say al-Qaeda is set to exploit divisision between the North and south of Yemen to attract recruits, writes SUDARSAN RAGHAVANin Aden, Yemen A HATRED of the government in southern Yemen is complicating US-backed efforts to stem al-Qaeda s ambitions across the region, according to western and Yemeni officials, analysts and human rights activists. The concerns highlight the extent to which the United States, as it deepens its military engagement here, is teaming up with a government facing internal divisions that in some ways are more complex than those in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. In a speech on Thursday, US president Barack Obama said his country has worked closely with its partners, including Yemen, to inflict major blows against al-Qaeda. But experts familiar with the group here say it is poised to exploit the country s divisions to attract recruits and more sympathy from the south s powerful tribes. Al-Qaeda dreams of secession, said Najib Ghallab, a political science professor at Sanaa University. It wants to turn the south into the perfect breeding ground for global terrorism. Once two countries, Yemen was unified in 1990. But a brief civil war broke out in 1994. From the north, President Ali Abdullah Saleh dispatched thousands of Yemeni mujahideen who had fought in Afghanistan as well as Salafists, who follow a strict interpretation of Islam, to fight the southerners. Ever since, tension has gripped the region. The government s resources are stretched thin, as it also grapples with a Shia rebellion in the north. Southerners contend that the government has denied them their share of oil revenue, and has dismissed many southerners from military and government jobs. A wave of protests has roiled the south, prompting a government crackdown. Many members of the Southern Movement, a loosely knit coalition, now demand secession. We no longer want our rights from the government. We want a separate north and south, said Ahmed Kassim, a secessionist leader who spoke in a hushed tone inside a car on a recent day in the southern port city of Aden. In May, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the affiliate alleged to have masterminded the attempted bombing of an American jet on Christmas Day, declared its support for the southerners demands for a separate state. The group s leader, Nasser al-Wahayshi, promised to avenge the oppression faced by southerners. Southern Yemen, nestled at the tip of the Arabian Peninsula, edges the strategic Bab el-Mandab strait, one of the world s oil shipping choke points. It is also a gateway to Somalia, where the Islamist militant movement al-Shabab, which has ties to al-Qaeda, is fighting the US-backed Somali transitional government. Al-Qaeda militants have thrived in Yemen s southern and southeastern provinces. They are shielded by tribal alliances and codes in religiously conservative communities that do not tolerate outside interference, even from the government. A shared dislike of central authority and US policies in the Middle East has strengthened al-Qaeda s bonds with southern tribesmen. The resentment persists in Aden, where al-Qaeda militants bombed the USS Colein 2000, killing 17 American sailors. Inside the dented white car, Kassim sat with another secessionist leader Nasser Atawil. Now and then, they looked nervously out the window, concerned that Yemeni intelligence agents might overhear their conversation with a journalist. They complained that the names of streets had been changed to northern ones. They said northerners had taken buildings, farms and land from southerners. Northerners, they contended, gain entry into better universities and have better careers. Atawil, a retired army general, said his pension was half what his northern counterparts receive. What the government is doing will make al-Qaeda stronger here, he said. In another corner of Aden, the managing editor of Al Ayyam, the largest and most influential daily in the south, said the government has banned his paper for sympathising with the Southern Movement s cause. We are virtually under house arrest, Hani Bashraheel said. On Monday, journalists staged a sit-in to protest at the shutdown. But clashes erupted between police and the paper s armed guards; a policeman and a guard were killed. On Wednesday, police arrested Hani and his father, Hisham Bashraheel, the paper s editor. According to Human Rights Watch, Yemeni forces opened fire on unarmed protesters six times in 2008 and 2009, killing at least 11 and wounding dozens. On Thursday, a senior Yemeni official denied the government was using excessive force and instead said some secessionists had targeted government forces. They claim they are a movement, but they are outlaws, said Rashad al-Alimi, deputy prime minister for security and defence. With continuing government repression, concern is growing that violence could increase especially as the US-backed war on al-Qaeda unfolds in the south. Since July, there have been more reports of protesters bringing weapons to rallies, according to Human Rights Watch. In November, al-Qaeda militants killed three senior security officials and four escorts in the southern province of Hadhramaut. The recent alliance between a powerful tribal leader and former jihadist, Tariq al-Fadhli, and the Southern Movement also has escalated tensions. Fadhli, who is from the south, fought against the Soviets in Afghanistan. Then Saleh sent him to fight against the former Marxist forces in the south during the civil war. But in April, Fadhli broke ties with Saleh, injecting new momentum into the Southern Movement. Since then, protests against the government have intensified. The government has accused Fadhli and the Southern Movement of colluding with al-Qaeda. They have denied this and accuse Saleh of using the spectre of al-Qaeda to elicit support from the US and its Middle East allies. Still, some rights activists say an alliance is forming between some secessionists, Fadhli and al-Qaeda. Christoph Wilcke, a Human Rights Watch researcher for Yemen, said at least one al-Qaeda leader had joined Fadhli and the Southern Movement. He was killed in a US-backed Yemeni airstrike last month, Wilcke said. Any melding of the Southern Movement and al-Qaeda is far from established, he said. But that could change if the US-backed war deepens without Washington pressuring Saleh to stop repression in the south. Angry southerners, meanwhile, have accused the government and the US of killing a few dozen civilians in an airstrike last month. Yemeni officials say they killed militants and their relatives. It will change the sympathies if they have a common enemy in the United States, Wilcke said. Al-Qaeda will become more of an ally. This is exactly what we don t want to get into.**

We read some more generic terror defense - in the impact section part








===2NC Terror=== 




Military pressure is wrecking terrorists in Afghanistan and Pakistan
Finel and Difo, 10 - **Director of Research and Senior Fellow at the American Security Project AND policy analyst for counterterrorism at ASP (Bernard and Germain, “Are We Winning? Mid-Year Update New Indications of Progress and Lingering Concerns in the Fight against al Qaeda,” http://www.americansecurityproject.org/content/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/AWW-Mid-Year-Update-FINAL.pdf**

**The last six month have seen a continued uptick in military pressure on Islamist groups in Afghanistan and Pakistan.4 Though the long-term consequences remain unclear, in the short-run, military pressure seems to be having a significant disruptive effect on terrorist groups based in both countries. This finding is demonstrated both by direct evidence of successful attacks on “jihadist” leaders and by indirect evidence such as reports that al Qaeda members are fleeing South Asia for safer areas.5 Al Qaeda’s diminished media presence and decreased capacity for initiating and executing significant terrorist attacks also illustrate its institutional weakness and eroded operational capability. Afghanistan has not been home to a significant, globally-oriented extremist movement since the overthrow of the Taliban in 2001 and the flight of remaining al Qaeda elements in 2002.6 As a result, it is unlikely that the American military escalation in that country announced by President Barack Obama in December 2009 will have a significant impact on the overall threat from Islamist groups in the near-term. Nevertheless, the increase in American forces and the U.S. military’s demonstrated capacity to “clear” insurgent areas quickly and at relatively low cost may have some secondary effects in turning the momentum. This escalation has certainly made it more difficult for radicals to claim they are moving toward an inevitable victory. While invalidating that claim might not be worth the costs associated with tripling America’s commitment to that country, the value of undermining extremist propaganda cannot be dismissed as wholly irrelevant either. We eagerly await data on the first quarter of 2010 with which to assess whether the American buildup is having a positive effect in terms of reducing terrorist violence in Afghanistan.**

Financial crackdown solves

Bruno 10 **(Greg, 2/1/10, “ Al-Qaeda's Financial Pressures,” http://www.cfr.org/publication/21347/alqaedas_financial_pressures.html.)**

**In addition to the ongoing military campaign against al-Qaeda, financial regulators are beefing up efforts to cut the terror group's lines of funding. These efforts are showing signs of progress. In Europe, al-Qaeda recruits complain of being forced to pay for their own training and supplies; affiliate cells are recording video and audio messages to solicit cash from supporters; and senior al-Qaeda leaders are calling on donors to ramp up illicit contributions. In mid-2009, al-Qaeda's commander of operations in Afghanistan, Mustafa Abu al-Yazid, complained of a shortage of food, weapons, and supplies (Reuters) brought about by a dearth of cash. Analysts are split on whether global financial woes or a weakened brand are responsible for al-Qaeda's declining reserves. And some analysts downplay the importance of any financial weakening of al-Qaeda. For one, terrorism is cheap: The London transit bombings on July 7, 2005, only cost about $15,000. As al-Qaeda increasingly connects to affiliates in Somalia, Yemen, and elsewhere, the wealth of al-Qaeda central may also be of less consequence. An increase in criminal activities like smuggling and drugs could easily turn around the group's fortunes, analysts say. Still, David S. Cohen, assistant secretary for terrorist financing at the U.S. Treasury Department, insists that targeted efforts to dampen al-Qaeda's finances are working. "We assess that al-Qaeda is in its weakest financial condition in several years," Cohen said in October 2009. "As a result, its influence is waning."**

Their whole advantage is wrong
Mueller 9—**pol sci prof and IR, Ohio State. Widely-recognized expert on terrorism threats in foreign policy. AB from U Chicago, MA in pol sci from UCLA and PhD in pol sci from UCLA (John, How Dangerous Are the Taliban? Why Afghanistan Is the Wrong War John Mueller, 15 April 2009, Foreign Affairs, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64932/john-mueller/how-dangerous-are-the-taliban, AMiles)**

**President Barack Obama insists that the U.S. mission in Afghanistan is about "making sure that al Qaeda cannot attack the U.S. homeland and U.S. interests and our allies" or "project violence against" American citizens. The reasoning is that if the Taliban win in Afghanistan, al Qaeda will once again be able to set up shop there to carry out its dirty work. As the president puts it, Afghanistan would "again be a base for terrorists who want to kill as many of our people as they possibly can." This argument is constantly repeated but rarely examined; given the costs and risks associated with the Obama administration’s plans for the region, it is time such statements be given the scrutiny they deserve. Multiple sources, including Lawrence Wright's book The Looming Tower, make clear that the Taliban was a reluctant host to al Qaeda in the 1990s and felt betrayed when the terrorist group repeatedly violated agreements to refrain from issuing inflammatory statements and fomenting violence abroad. Then the al Qaeda-sponsored 9/11 attacks -- which the Taliban had nothing to do with -- led to the toppling of the Taliban’s regime. Given the Taliban’s limited interest in issues outside the "AfPak" region, if they came to power again now, they would be highly unlikely to host provocative terrorist groups whose actions could lead to another outside intervention. And even if al Qaeda were able to relocate to Afghanistan after a Taliban victory there, it would still have to operate under the same siege situation it presently enjoys in what Obama calls its "safe haven" in Pakistan. The very notion that al Qaeda needs a secure geographic base to carry out its terrorist operations, moreover, is questionable. After all, the operational base for 9/11 was in Hamburg, Germany. Conspiracies involving small numbers of people require communication, money, and planning -- but not a major protected base camp. At present, al Qaeda consists of a few hundred people running around in Pakistan, seeking to avoid detection and helping the Taliban when possible. It also has a disjointed network of fellow travelers around the globe who communicate over the Internet. Over the last decade, the group has almost completely discredited itself in the Muslim world due to the fallout from the 9/11 attacks and subsequent counterproductive terrorism, much of it directed against Muslims. No convincing evidence has been offered publicly to show that al Qaeda Central has put together a single full operation anywhere in the world since 9/11. And, outside of war zones, the violence perpetrated by al Qaeda affiliates, wannabes, and lookalikes combined has resulted in the deaths of some 200 to 300 people per year, and may be declining. That is 200 to 300 too many, of course, but it scarcely suggests that "the safety of people around the world is at stake," as Obama dramatically puts it. In addition, al Qaeda has yet to establish a significant presence in the United States. In 2002, U.S. intelligence reports asserted that the number of trained al Qaeda operatives in the United States was between 2,000 and 5,000, and FBI Director Robert Mueller assured a Senate committee that al Qaeda had "developed a support infrastructure" in the country and achieved both "the ability and the intent to inflict significant casualties in the U.S. with little warning." However, after years of well funded sleuthing, the FBI and other investigative agencies have been unable to uncover a single true al Qaeda sleeper cell or operative within the country. Mueller's rallying cry has now been reduced to a comparatively bland formulation: "We believe al Qaeda is still seeking to infiltrate operatives into the U.S. from overseas." Even that may not be true. Since 9/11, some two million foreigners have been admitted to the United States legally and many others, of course, have entered illegally. Even if border security has been so effective that 90 percent of al Qaeda’s operatives have been turned away or deterred from entering the United States, some should have made it in -- and some of those, it seems reasonable to suggest, would have been picked up by law enforcement by now. The lack of attacks inside the United States combined with the inability of the FBI to find any potential attackers suggests that the terrorists are either not trying very hard or are far less clever and capable than usually depicted. Policymakers and the public at large should keep in mind the words of Glenn Carle, a 23 year veteran of the CIA who served as deputy national intelligence officer for transnational threats: "We must see jihadists for the small, lethal, disjointed and miserable opponents that they are." Al Qaeda "has only a handful of individuals capable of planning, organizing and leading a terrorist operation," Carle notes, and "its capabilities are far inferior to its desires."**







===1NC Pakistan=== 




Pakistani instability not caused by US presence
Zaidi, 10- **Lecturer, Policing and Criminal Investigation, University of Central Lancashire (2010, Syed, “Negotiations and the anti-Taliban Insurgency in Pakistan” Asian Politics & Policy, v.2, n.2)**

**The Taliban in Pakistan are not just a reaction to American or Pakistani policies; this view will be empirical and simplistic, leading to all the wrong conclusions. They are political Islamists, with a definite ideological agenda that is furthered by intolerant orthodoxy and violence. As with political Islam, the notion of primacy of power is a central theme in their philosophy; this is in direct opposition to the concept of primacy of state power, and this violence will continue to be used in opposition to the Pakistani state until one opponent overwhelms the other. This makes the Taliban in Pakistan a more serious threat than any ethnic or separatist challenge Pakistan has faced, since this movement is ideological rather than ethno-nationalist, which tends to subside with healing touches of socioeconomic improvement and antidiscrimination frameworks. In a way, the Taliban are anarchist in their disposition, since they are going all out to destroy an established state infrastructure without presenting a viable alternative. This makes COIN all the more urgent because such guerilla movements benefit most from time lags and accommodative deals, which enable them to entrench their footholds among swathes of civilian territory.**

No Pakistani collapse

AP 10 **(Pakistan's stability, leadership under spotlight after floods and double dealing accusations, 6 August 2010, http://www.foxnews.com/world/2010/08/06/pakistans-stability-leadership-spotlight-floods-double-dealing-accusations/, AMiles)**

**Not for the first time, Pakistan appears to be teetering on the edge with a government unable to cope. Floods are ravaging a country at war with al-Qaida and the Taliban. Riots, slayings and arson are gripping the largest city. Suggestions are flying that the intelligence agency is aiding Afghan insurgents. The crises raise questions about a nation crucial to U.S. hopes of success in Afghanistan and to the global campaign against Islamist militancy. Despite the recent headlines, few here see Pakistan in danger of collapse or being overrun by militants — a fear that had been expressed before the army fought back against insurgents advancing from their base in the Swat Valley early last year. From its birth in 1947, Pakistan has been dogged by military coups, corrupt and inefficient leaders, natural disasters, assassinations and civil unrest. Through it all, Pakistan has not prospered — but it survives. “There is plenty to be worried about, but also indications that when push comes to shove the state is able to respond," said Mosharraf Zaidi, an analyst and writer who has advised foreign governments on aid missions to Pakistan. "The military has many weaknesses, but it has done a reasonable job in relief efforts. There have been gaps in the response. But this is a developing a country, right?" The recent flooding came at a sensitive time for Pakistan, with Western doubts over its loyalty heightened by the leaking of U.S. military documents that strengthened suspicions the security establishment was supporting Afghan insurgents while receiving billions in Western aid. With few easy choices, the United States has made it clear it intends to stick with Pakistan. Indeed, it has used the floods to demonstrate its commitment to the country, rushing emergency assistance and dispatching helicopters to ferry the goods. The Pakistani government's response to the floods has been sharply criticized at home, especially since President Asif Ali Zardari departed for a European tour. With so many Pakistanis suffering, the trip has left the already weak and unpopular leader even more vulnerable politically. The flooding was triggered by what meteorologists said were "once-in-a-century" rains. The worst affected area is the northwest, a stronghold for Islamist militants. Parts of the northwest have seen army offensives over the last two years. Unless the people are helped quickly and the region is rebuilt, anger at the government could translate into support for the militants. At least one charity with suspected links to a militant outfit has established relief camps there. The extremism threat was highlighted by a suicide bombing in the main northwestern town of Peshawar on Wednesday. The bomber killed the head of the Frontier Constabulary, a paramilitary force in the northwest at the forefront of the terror fight. With authorities concentrating on flood relief, some officials have expressed concern that militants could regroup. The city of Karachi has seen militant violence and is rumored to be a hiding place for top Taliban and al-Qaida fighters. It has also been plagued by regular bouts of political and ethnic bloodletting since the 1980s, though it has been calmer in recent years. The latest violence erupted after the assassination of a leading member of the city's ruling party. More than 70 people have been killed in revenge attacks since then, paralyzing parts of the city of 16 million people. While serious, the unrest does not yet pose an immediate threat to the stability of the country. Although the U.S. is unpopular, there is little public support for the hardline Islamist rule espoused by the Taliban and their allies. Their small movement has been unable to control any Pakistani territory beyond the northwest, home to only about 20 million of the country's 175 million people.**

No impact
Tepperman 9—**Deputy Editor at Newsweek. Frmr Deputy Managing Editor, Foreign Affairs. LLM, i-law, NYU. MA, jurisprudence, Oxford. (Jonathan, Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb, http://jonathantepperman.com/Welcome_files/nukes_Final.pdf, AMiles)**
**Note – Michael Desch = prof, polsci, Notre Dame**

As for Pakistan, it has taken numerous precautions to ensure that its own weapons are insulated from the country’s chaos, installing complicated firing mechanisms to prevent a launch by lone radicals, for example, and instituting special training and screening for its nuclear personnel to ensure they’re not infiltrated by extremists. Even if the Pakistani state did collapse entirely—the nightmare scenario— the chance of a Taliban bomb would still be remote. Desch argues that the idea that terrorists “could use these weapons radically underestimates the difficulty of actually operating a modern nuclear arsenal. These things need constant maintenance and they’re very easy to disable. So the idea that these things could be stuffed into a gunnysack and smuggled across the Rio Grande is preposterous.”

They don’t solve
Blankey, 9 - **Visiting Senior Fellow in National-Security Communications at the Heritage Foundation (Tony, " A Nuclear Talibanistan?,” 4/15, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/04/15/a_nuclear_talibanistan_48923.html)**

**The problem is that the united radical Islamists are expanding the combat zone inside Pakistan, threatening the state itself. But our drone attacks on the united Taliban (and al-Qaida) are driving the radicals deeper into Pakistan, including its major cities. Also, the attacks inevitably also kill Pakistani women and children (or are claimed by the radicals to have done so), which serves as a recruiting tool for new jihadists. Thus, this is what Kilcullen was quoted as saying by Der Spiegel: "I am against the drone attacks. Even if we could kill half of the al-Qaida leaders, what does it help us if we cause an uprising by the population of Pakistan?"**

No solvency – others would go in
Rubin 3/8 – **Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute (2010, Michael, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” http://www.aei.org/article/101753)**

Pakistan, Russia, Iran, and even China are willing to move in at Karzai's invitation and fill any vacuum the U.S. leaves behind. I'm not as sanguine as Schlesinger that any of Afghanistan's neighbors would ever involve themselves positively from a standpoint of U.S. national interests.






===2NC Pakistan=== 




No chance that Pakistan will collapse

Bandow 09- **Senior Fellow @ Cato, former special assistant to Reagan (11/31/09, Doug, “Recognizing the Limits of American Power in Afghanistan,” Huffington Post, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10924)**

**From Pakistan's perspective, limiting the war on almost any terms would be better than prosecuting it for years, even to "victory," whatever that would mean. In fact, the least likely outcome is a takeover by widely unpopular Pakistani militants. The Pakistan military is the nation's strongest institution; while the army might not be able to rule alone, it can prevent any other force from ruling. Indeed, Bennett Ramberg made the important point: "Pakistan, Iran and the former Soviet republics to the north have demonstrated a brutal capacity to suppress political violence to ensure survival. This suggests that even were Afghanistan to become a terrorist haven, the neighborhood can adapt and resist." The results might not be pretty, but the region would not descend into chaos. In contrast, warned Bacevich: "To risk the stability of that nuclear-armed state in the vain hope of salvaging Afghanistan would be a terrible mistake."**

No risk that Pakistani nukes are stolen

Innocent, 10 - **foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute (Malou, “Away from McChrystal and Back to the Basics,” Huffington Post, 6/28, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11934)**

**Pakistan has an elaborate command and control system in place that complies with strict Western standards, and the country's warheads, detonators, and missiles are not stored fully-assembled, but are scattered and physically separated throughout the country. In short, the danger of militants seizing Pakistan's nuclear weapons in some Rambo-like scenario remains highly unlikely.**





===1NC Heg=== 







No overstretch

Hicks 10**—Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Strategy, Plans, and Forces—Samuel J. Brannen—Special Assistant to the Deputy Under Secretary. (Kathleen, Force Planning in the 2010 QDR, http://www.ndu.edu/press/force-planning-in-the-2010-QDR.html, AMiles)**

**In preparing for the 2010 QDR, DOD identified three instructive trends in this evolution of force planning. The first is the need to balance current operational readiness with the requirement to develop forces for future contingencies. In the 1997 QDR, this concept was demonstrated in the tension between our readiness to "respond" and our imperative to "prepare now." More recently, the concept of balance was introduced by Secretary of Defense Robert Gates in the 2008 National Defense Strategy. The second is an increasing recognition that future operations are less predictable than we would like. Planning against a specific threat in a specific place would leave the United States vulnerable to the wide range of operations that history has proven we unexpectedly find ourselves involved in. There was false comfort in believing that to prevail in the future we could simply look to past successes. The third trend, tied in many ways to the second, is the increasing difficulty of neatly or reliably categorizing potential contingency types (for example, as conventional or irregular warfare). The hybrid approaches to warfare that adversaries are likely to employ demand that U.S. forces prepare for a much broader challenge set and be ready to move quickly from one "type" of warfare to another, often converging in time and place. We have been routinely surprised by our inability to predict the course or costs of the employment of our military. Even after the tide of conflict is turned and the United States and its allies and partners prevail in combat, there is often a decades-long requirement for security force assistance or follow-on activities in the theater to maintain deterrence or military balance. Likewise, so-called small-scale conflicts, such as counterinsurgency and stability operations, can pose significant demands on the force and call for capabilities that may be quite different from those employed in combat. These lessons substantially informed the 2010 QDR defense strategy and its associated near-term and mid- to long-term force planning and sizing approach. Taking past experience into account, and casting our vision forward 20 years, the defense strategy focuses on fulfilling four key defense objectives: We must be able to prevail in today's conflicts. We must look for ways to prevent and deter further conflict. We must prepare to defeat adversaries and succeed in a wide range of future challenges. We must preserve and enhance our force, including making necessary improvements in our defense institutions to ensure we honor the commitment and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform. This strategic priority includes caring for our wounded warriors, supporting families, recruiting and retaining personnel (including development of present and future military leaders), and seeking ways to rebalance reliance on the Reserve Component as the operational environment allows. As in 2006, DOD undertook the 2010 QDR in a time of war. Unlike its predecessors, however, the most recent QDR explicitly addresses the sizing construct to be used in the near term (5 to 7 years) while describing how that construct shifts over the mid to long term (7 to 20 years). Near-term Force Sizing (5 to 7 Years). This year's review leaves no doubt that as long as substantial numbers of U.S. forces are operating in Afghanistan and we are conducting a responsible drawdown of forces in Iraq, U.S. force sizing and shaping will be driven by the need to ensure success for the men and women serving in both theaters. Success in these operations significantly enhances our long-term security outlook. At the same time, the QDR requires U.S. forces to be capable of executing other elements of the defense strategy today. This includes limited prevent and deter missions focused on ensuring a defense in depth of the United States, preventing the emergence or reemergence of transnational terrorist threats. It also includes being prepared to defend the United States and to support civil authorities in the case of an emergency and defeating threats to U.S. allies and interests that might arise, such as on the Korean Peninsula. Finally, the QDR requires the force to begin transitioning to sustainable personnel rotation rates that encourage the vitality and long-term health of America's All-Volunteer Force. Long-term Force Sizing (7 to 20 Years). Looking out along the long-term security horizon, we see an even more complex environment with a greater opportunity and need to address our prevention, preparation, and preservation (prevent, prepare, preserve) defense objectives. Some of the particularly stressing operational challenges we face include: lower barriers to entry for dangerous actors attempting to acquire an increasingly lethal array of technologies, including WMD—more actors are more dangerous and can directly threaten America's interests and its ability to operate incentives for nonstate and state adversaries to challenge us asymmetrically—this would likely occur at the low and high ends of potential lethality and/or technology, and we should expect future conflicts to combine these approaches potential for state collapse or chronically fragile states to pose a range of complex challenges. Given the broad spectrum of potential future conflicts, Secretary Gates has directed force planners to develop "an American military that must have the maximum possible flexibility to deal with the widest possible range of scenarios and conflicts."13 Although the U.S. Armed Forces must in aggregate be flexible, not all portions of the force must do everything equally well. Operations will affect each part of the joint force differently, including variations in the intensity and duration of use for land, maritime, air, space, and cyberspace forces. Nor should we overspend by inflating threats. Indeed, as the QDR states, "Not all challenges pose the same degree of threat to national interests, rely on U.S. military capabilities equally, or have the same chance of occurrence."14 Ensuring our ability to meet defense objectives over the long term required us to move beyond a single, small set of scenarios against which to assess our future forces. For this reason, the QDR used multiple Integrated Security Constructs—scenario combinations designed to test the force's capacity to manage plausible but highly stressing combinations of overlapping missions. For example, QDR analyses tested the capacity of U.S. forces to meet the following challenges in overlapping timeframes: conduct a large-scale stability operation, such as Operation Iraqi Freedom defeat a highly capable state adversary in a distant theater extend support to civil authorities in response to a catastrophic event in the United States continue to execute a global campaign against al Qaeda and its allies. We also tested the QDR force against several other plausible combinations of challenges, each designed to stress the force differently in terms of its speed, strength, versatility, and durability. To analyze scenarios, we planned a contingency operation, determining the required force size and structure, then tested these forces using modeling and simulation where possible, and military judgment in other cases. We complemented these efforts with lessons learned from past and current operations and numerous classified wargames—many set in the distant future. Using this planning process, the 2010 QDR went far beyond the scope and time horizon of earlier reviews. By broadening scenario sets and testing multiple variations, we captured long-term challenges such as advanced cyber, nuclear, and antispace situations set decades in the future. We also explored the implications of increased demands for day-to-day global presence and partner capacity missions over a period of years. These missions—domestic support to civil authorities, security force assistance, and deterring nuclear-armed aggressors— have been only marginally assessed in prior analyses. Although we must be realistic about our ability to predict all of the factors that affect U.S. and foreign military planning— trends that include global economics, energy, demographics, technology, geopolitics, and domestic pressures on adversaries, allies, and friends—we are confident that the analysis undertaken in the 2010 QDR and the review's resulting strategic and programmatic decisions set DOD on the right course to guide the force's needed evolution over the next 20 years. The 2010 QDR concretely identifies the size and composition of U.S. force structure appropriate for executing the defense strategy. It then goes beyond prior reviews to establish clear measures for further force evolution, ensuring that our force of the future includes: ground forces capable of full-spectrum operations naval forces capable of robust power projection and effective partnering survivable fifth-generation fighter aircraft with increased range, flexibility, and multimission versatility agile special operations forces with organic enablers and support from general purpose forces more and better enabling systems, including intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance, as well as electronic attack communications networks, more resilient base infrastructure, enhanced cyber defenses and missile defenses the right combination of joint persistent surveillance, electronic warfare, and precision-attack capabilities, including both penetrating platforms and standoff weapons, to support U.S. power projection operations.**

Afghanistan won’t collapse hegemony
Lawrence 9—**assistant editor, the national interest (Edward, America in Decline? Think Again, 28 October 2009, http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2009/10/28/america_in_decline__think_again_97299.html, AMiles)**

**The chorus of declinists has returned. Imperial overstretch in Afghanistan and Iraq, we are told, has imposed impossible burdens upon our military, while over-consumption and a mountain of debt has ravaged our economy. Meanwhile, a specter lurks in the East, as China's GDP grows ever larger, and its army and navy grow ever stronger. Beijing's star rises as Washington's falls. The unipolar moment is over, and Americans must learn to live within their means and adapt to a new international pecking order where theirs is one voice among many, instead of the loudest and most important. Or so say a bevy of our most learned academics and political leaders-including President Barack Obama, who boldly declared to the United Nations in September that "no one nation . . . can dominate another." America, it seems, has had its fatted calf and found it lacking. If all this seems vaguely familiar, that's because it is. In the 1970s, the United States was supposed to be finished as a superpower. Our disastrous anti-Communist adventure in Vietnam had broken our armed forces, and stagflation seemed to have sapped our economic might. The Soviet Union, our great rival in geopolitics, was on a roll, supporting Communist insurgencies and uprisings in Africa, and invading Afghanistan in 1979. In that same year, Iran erupted in flames as the friendly government of the shah was deposed, and Islamist fanatics held hundreds of American citizens in captivity. The prestige of the United States had never sunk so low. Washington seemed powerless to stop these indignities, and looked to be a wounded dinosaur flailing about in a new environment it could not fathom. Our economic well being was in danger too. Japan, another rising power in the East, was purchasing great quantities of American debt and had purportedly found an economic model that was more efficient and productive than our own. Given these sobering realities, President Jimmy Carter asked Americans to recognize that our day in the sun had ended, and that it was time to adapt to a new world where the power and influence of the United States was dramatically reduced. Fortunately, the American people didn't acquiesce to his demands. In 1980, they elected Ronald Reagan, who refused to believe that America's day was over, and encouraged its citizens to share in his optimism. Over the course of the next decade, many of the nightmare scenarios of the gloomy declinists proved to be completely wrong. Instead of inaugurating a new era of Communist hegemony, the 1970s proved to be the apotheosis of the Soviet Empire, which imploded in domestic and economic turmoil only a decade later-leaving the United States unchallenged as the world's superpower. On the financial front, Reagan's pro-growth policies and Paul Volcker's work at the Federal Reserve tamed stagflation, making America fiscally healthy once again. And although Japan enjoyed a booming economy throughout the 1980s, it hardly eclipsed the United States as the world's premier economic power. The next decade would prove to be a "lost" one for Japan, while America embarked on one of the largest economic booms in history. In 1999, the United States stood astride the world as a noble colossus-and it hardly seemed possible that just twenty years before some had predicted its impending doom. So perhaps, in our moment of alleged decline, we find ourselves in a time similar to 1979 - for although history never repeats itself exactly, it does occasionally sound a few familiar notes. The challenges America faces - Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran and the economy, to name a few - are daunting. It would be incredibly foolish to assume that just because the country has endured rough patches in the past that it can do the same again. But the knowledge that we have been in a similar position should provide some comfort. In the early 1980s, our elected leaders weren't afraid to try out unorthodox strategies to solve the nation's problems: tax cuts, deregulation, increased military spending, and a harder stance toward the Soviet Union. New ideas- some untested - proved to work, and our country emerged stronger for it. We need the same sort of policy innovation from our leaders today.**

More generic heg d - in impact d







===2NC Heg - No Overstretch=== 




No overstretch—recruiting at all time high
Peter 9 **(Thomas A. Peter is a staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor. “High unemployment means high military recruitment.” November 12, 2009. http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Military/2009/1112/p17s01-usmi.html DA August 9, 2010 SM.)**

**As a construction worker in southern California, says Blaise Counter, life was pretty sweet. Working on what he describes as "corporate millionaire homes," his $1,300-a- week paycheck allowed him his own luxury – a modest shared apartment in upscale Laguna Beach, where he could surf every day. And there was enough left over to support his 5-year-old daughter by a former girlfriend. But when the "corporate millionaires" hit the skids in the recession, so, too, did legions of workers – like Mr. Counter – who served them. And that's how – less than a year after losing his job and his apartment amid the palms – he finds himself today living in a steel shipping container on the front lines of the war in Afghanistan at a tiny outpost along the border with Pakistan. He signed up for the only steady work he could find – the US Army. Now a private first class, the avid surfer is hundreds of miles from the nearest beach, pulling latrine duty once a week in between dangerous foot patrols and manning mortars. But he's making about $1,900 a month, tax-free, plus room and board and medical care. In the mellow singsong of the California surfer patois that adds an oddly cheerful flavor to his momentous decision, he explains: "I have a little girl, so I had to think about her and the possibility of never coming back to her. At the same time you've got to pay your bills and you've got to keep living." Counter is among thousands of Americans hit hard by the financial crisis who are finding financial refuge in the military, where in spite of the stark prospect of going to war, the work is steady and the pay and benefits are decent. Economic hard times are a driving force in what the Department of Defense is calling the best recruitment year since 1973. "We're pleased to report that for the first time since the advent of the all-volunteer force, all of the military components, active and reserve, met their number as well as their quality goals.… [T]hat's the first time that's been achieved for every component since the start of the all-volunteer force in 1973," said Bill Carr, head of personnel for the Department of Defense. In his October report on 2009 recruitment, he attributed part of the success to high unemployment rates in the US, in addition to increased spending on recruits and better military salaries. ACROSS THE SERVICES, THE MILITARY MET all its goals and, after years of lowering standards during the peak of fighting in Iraq, this past year attracted one of the most educated groups to the military in nearly a decade. All the services modestly exceeded their recruiting goals, with the Army having the most success, making 108 percent of its target. In sum, the US Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force brought in nearly 169,000 new recruits, while the National Guard and Reserve forces brought in about 138,000. There is some question as to the significance of the military's record-level recruiting year. Some have pointed out that the services exceeded their goals only after lowering them, so in actuality fewer people joined the military this year than last. However, the military has also managed to attract an undeniably more qualified core of recruits. The number of Army recruits with a high school degree was up 11 percentage points from last year. Across the services, 96 percent of recruits had a high school diploma, the strongest percentage since 1996. Additionally, the services saw the best showing on their math and verbal aptitude test since 2004 with 73 percent of recruits scoring above average.**

Latent power solves overstretch

Brooks and Wohlforth 8 **Associate Professor of Government in the Department of Government at Dartmouth College and Professor of Government in the Dartmouth College Department of Government (Stephen and William, World Out of Balance, pg 211)**

**Analysts who argue that the United States now suffers, or soon will suffer, from imperial overstretch invariably fail to distinguish between latent power (the level of resources that could be mobilized from society) and actual power (the level of resources a government actually chooses to mobilize)." In his original formulation of imperial overstretch, Kennedy had in mind a situation in which a state's actual and latent capabilities cannot cope with its existing foreign policy commitments. To date, there is virtually no research on whether the United States faces this prospect. Part of the problem is that because the Bush administration made no attempt to ask the public for greater sacrifice, there is no observable evidence of whether it would be possible to extract more resources for advancing Ll.S. foreign policy interests. The Cold War experience indicates that the U.S. public is capable of supporting, over long periods, significantly higher spending on foreign policy than current levels. Yet this does not necessarily mean that the U.S. public would be willing to support a dramatic increase in foreign policy spending now if policymakers called for it. The larger issue is that though IR scholars use the term, they have not theorized or researched imperial overstretch as a constraint independent of counterbalancing. In the historical cases highlighted by Kennedy and others, leading states suffered from imperial overstretch in significant part because they faced counterbalancing that demanded more resources than they were able to extract domestically. As chapters 2 and 3 showed, the United States does not face a counterbalancing constraint. This raises a key question of whether there are limits to the U'S. polity's capacity to generate power in the absence of the threat posed by a geopolitical peer rival. Lacking a focused research effort, scholars can now only answer with speculation.**

Their authors confuse failure with the end of leadership

Gray 9—**IR and strategic studies, U Reading, England. PhD (Colin, After Iraq: The Search for a Sustainable National Security Strategy, January 2009, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=902, AMiles)**

**The long list of U.S. problems in Afghanistan and Iraq should not be misinterpreted. It would be a mistake to conclude that: (1) the United States should cease to act hegemonically; (2) U.S. values (i.e., culture) are flawed, for Americans and some others; (3) the U.S. armed forces have been demonstrably incompetent. A more sensible interpretation of events would be the following: (1) the United States is the only candidate for contemporary hegemon, and world order needs a hegemon willing and able to serve as world policeman, even one that makes some policy errors9; (2) in major respects U.S. culture is highly attractive, which is fortunate since it is not easily alterable, but it does need to be advertised and applied with care and restraint abroad; (3) Americans have become very competent at warfighting, but that prowess has not extended across the whole of the conflict spectrum. In common with all great powers in the past, the United States has to learn to cope with occasional policy failure. Failure through human error or sheer incompetence, friction, and bad luck should not be mistaken for precipitate decline. Too many commentators today are proclaiming the end of American hegemony. It is true that there are visible trends hostile to U.S. hegemony, the well-announced “rise of “ China and India, and one day, just possibly, the EU/Europe, and even a long-delayed Japan and Brazil. But for the time being and for many years to come, the United States will be the hegemon. This is to say that it will be the global leader, certainly the most important player, in any matter of grave significance for international security. This will be what one might call a default reality. It is, and will be, a consequence of conscious American choice and effort. Also, U.S. leadership, notwithstanding the exception of its behavior towards Iraq, will rest upon a base provided by broad global consent, albeit not always of an enthusiastic kind.**







==<span class="Underline">India DA</span>== 








===1NC=== 





We are forging strong relations with India now
Economic Times, 9/9 **(“US laying foundation for indispensable partnership with India: Clinton,” [[http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/articleshow/6524182.cms]], JMP)**
**WASHINGTON: The United States is taking steps to lay the foundation for indispensable partnership with India, said Secretary of State Hilary Clinton.**
**Addressing the Council on Foreign Relations here on Thursday, Clinton described India as the world's largest democracy, which has a very large convergence of fundamental values and a broad range of both national and regional interests.**
**"We are laying the foundation for an indispensible partnership. President Obama will use his visit in November to** take our relationship to the next level**," she said.**

Plan kills US Indian Relations – it abandons South Asian instability and undermines our credibility with New Delhi
Kaplan, 10 – **senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security (August 2010, Robert D., “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict,” [[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf|www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf]])**

**He or she who sits in Delhi with his back to Muslim Central Asia must still worry about unrest up on the plateaus to the northwest. The United States will draw down its troops one day in Afghanistan, but India will still have to live with the results, and therefore remain intimately engaged. The quickest way to undermine U.S.-India relations is for the United States to withdraw precipitously from Afghanistan. In the process of leaving behind an anarchic and radicalized society, which in and of itself is contrary to India’s interests, such a withdrawal would signal to Indian policy elites that the United States is surely a declining power** on which they cannot depend**. Detente with China might then seem to be in India’s interest. After all, China wants a stable Afghanistan for trade routes; India, for security. Because of India’s** history and geography**, an American failure in Afghanistan bodes ill for our bilateral relationship with New Delhi. Put simply, if the United States deserts Afghanistan, it deserts India.**
**Indeed, India is** quietly **testing the United States in Afghanistan perhaps to the same intense degree as Israel is very publicly testing the United States in regards to a nuclear Iran. I do not suggest that we should commit so much money and national treasure to Afghanistan merely for the sake of impressing India. But I am suggesting that the deleterious effect on U.S.-India bilateral relations of giving up on Afghanistan should be part of our national debate on the war effort there, for at the moment it is not. The fact is that our ability to influence China will depend greatly on our ability to work with India, and that, in turn, will depend greatly on how we perform in Afghanistan.**

Key to prevent Asian instability, terrorism and prolif
Burns, 5 **– Undersecretary for Political Affairs (Nicholas Burns, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, 9-8-05, Congressional Testimony before the House International Relations Committee, “The U.S. and India: An Emerging Entente?” http://www.nti.org/e_research/official_docs/dos/dos090805.pdf)**

**<span style="margin-right: 0.2in;">A strong democratic India is an important partner for the United States. We anticipate that India will play an increasingly </span>**important leadership role **in 21st century Asia, working with us to promote democracy, economic growth, stability and peace in that vital region. By cooperating with India now, we accelerate the arrival of the benefits that India's rise brings to the region and the world. By fostering ever-closer bilateral ties, we also eliminate any possibility that our two nations might overlook their natural affinities and enter into another period of unproductive estrangement, as was so often the case in the past half century.**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Today, for the first time since bilateral relations were established in 1947, the United States and India are</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">bound together by a strong congruence of interests, values, and a large and successful Indian-American</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">community. Consequently we find an especially receptive partner in New Delhi, one no longer bound by Cold</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">War politics or dogma. The Indian Government has demonstrated its firm desire to enhance our bilateral</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">relationship. The United States now has a window of opportunity to seize the initiative with India, to build bonds and habits of cooperation that will stand the test of time. It is incumbent upon us, therefore, to undertake ambitious actions that correct our mutual history with India of missed opportunities and advance our common interests in the century ahead. We seek to work with India to win the global War on Terrorism, prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction, enhance peace and stability in Asia, protect trade routes and sea lines of communication, and advance the spread of democracy. India and the United States now find ourselves on the same side on all of these critical strategic objectives. Our challenge, then, is to translate our converging interests into shared goals and compatible strategies designed to achieve those aims. In this context, the wide range of initiatives agreed to by President Bush and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh this July, including our agreement to promote civilian nuclear energy cooperation, represents a unique chance to build trust between the United States and India because of the resonance all these programs have for both countries.</span></span>**

Causes global nuclear war
Cimbala, 10 **- Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State, (Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8)**
**Failure to contain proliferation in Pyongyang could spread nuclear fever throughout Asia. Japan and South Korea might seek nuclear weapons and missile defenses. A pentagonal configuration of nuclear powers in the Pacific basis (Russia, China, Japan, and the two Koreas – not including the United States, with its own Pacific interests) could put deterrence at risk and create** enormous temptation toward nuclear preemption**. Apart from actual use or threat of use, North Korea could exploit the mere existence of an assumed nuclear capability in order to support its coercive diplomacy. As George H. Quester has noted: If the Pyongyang regime plays its cards sensibly and well, therefore, the world will not see its nuclear weapons being used against Japan or South Korea or anyone else, but will rather see this new nuclear arsenal held in reserve (just as the putative Israeli nuclear arsenal has been held in reserve), as a deterrent against the outside world’s applying maximal pressure on Pyongyang and as a bargaining chip to extract the economic and political concessions that the DPRK needs if it wishes to avoid giving up its peculiar approach to social engineering. A five-sided nuclear competition in the Pacific would be linked, in geopolitical deterrence and proliferation space, to the existing nuclear deterrents in India and Pakistan, and to the emerging nuclear weapons status of Iran. An arc of nuclear instability from Tehran to Tokyo could place U.S. proliferation strategies into the ash heap of history and call for more drastic military options, not excluding preemptive war, defenses, and counter-deterrent special operations. In addition, an eight-sided nuclear arms race in Asia would increase the likelihood of accidental or inadvertent nuclear war. It would do so because: (1) some of these states already have histories of protracted conflict; (2) states may have politically unreliable or immature command and control systems, especially during a crisis involving a decision for nuclear first strike or retaliation; unreliable or immature systems might permit a technical malfunction that caused an unintended launch, or a deliberate but unauthorized launch by rogue commanders; (3) faulty intelligence and warning systems might cause one side to misinterpret the other’s defensive moves to forestall attack as offensive preparations for attack, thus triggering a mistaken preemption.**




===2NC - Impact Calc=== 





<span style="text-decoration: none;">Prolif causes nuclear use</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Cirincione ’00</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Joseph, Director of the Non-Proliferation Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Foreign Policy, “The Asian nuclear reaction chain”, Issue 118, Spring, Proquest)</span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia, where proliferation pressures are already building more quickly than anywhere else in the world. If a nuclear breakout takes place in Asia, then the international arms control agreements that have been painstakingly negotiated over the past 40 years will crumble. Moreover, the United States could find itself embroiled in its fourth war on the Asian continent in six decades--a costly rebuke to those who seek the safety of Fortress America by hiding behind national missile defenses. Consider what is already happening: North Korea continues to play guessing games with its nuclear and missile programs; South Korea wants its own missiles to match Pyongyang's; India and Pakistan shoot across borders while running a slow-motion nuclear arms race; China modernizes its nuclear arsenal amid tensions with Taiwan and the United States; Japan's vice defense minister is forced to resign after extolling the benefits of nuclear weapons; and Russia-whose Far East nuclear deployments alone make it the largest Asian nuclear power-struggles to maintain territorial coherence. Five of these states have nuclear weapons; the others are capable of constructing them. Like neutrons firing from a split atom, one nation's actions can trigger reactions throughout the region, which in turn, stimulate additional actions. These nations form an interlocking Asian nuclear reaction chain that vibrates dangerously with each new development. If the frequency and intensity of this reaction cycle increase, critical decisions taken by any one of these governments could cascade into the second great wave of nuclear-weapon proliferation, bringing regional and global economic and political instability and, perhaps, the first combat use of a nuclear weapon since 1945.</span></span>**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Turns indo-pak war</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Editorial Debt, 9</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> (“Interests in Afghanistan and Pakistan Set to Collide, With Global Implications”, 12/30/09, http://oilprice.com/Geo-Politics/Middle-East/Interests-in-Afghanistan-and-Pakistan-Set-to-Collide-With-Global-Implications.html)</span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The West has vital interests in the energy resources and strategic stability in Central Asia . Simply put, Europe’s ability to rely on “the Persian Gulf of the 21st Century” — Central Asia — for its long-term secure energy supplies depends on containing the PRC’s strategic ascent and quest for the same energy resources and the southwards transportation routes (there is a limit to the quantities of hydrocarbons which can be piped westwards through Russia). These interests can be secured through the Russian political-security hegemony in Central Asia , which, in turn, is facilitating the Western economic outreach. The European Union-Russian Federation (EU-RF) “Eurasian Home” grand strategy codifies such cooperation. The PRC’s containment can also be achieved in part by ensuring a strategic balance between India and the PRC, a policy supported by Russia . As well, Western interests would be furthered by the stifling of the continued spread of jihadism, a key objective of Russia as well. Moscow is most apprehensive about the jihadist attrition of socio-political stability in Central and South Asia and the ensuing spread into Russia ’s sizeable Muslim population.</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Ultimately, however, there is no substitute for the West’s long-term direct presence and military involvement at the Heart of Asia. A US withdrawal would abandon the Heart of Asia to a Russian-Chinese condominium with the EU — being dependent on the region’s energy resources — playing a pliant supportive rôle. Apprehensive as it is of China ’s strategic ascent, Russia does not have the means to singlehandedly block the PRC. To remain in Central Asia, Russia will have to compromise with China against its own better judgment. Russia would rather have the West in the area to jointly contain China .</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">It is therefore crucial for Russia and the West to demonstrate US-led Western commitment through long-term military presence and continued fighting against the primary foes. Afghanistan and Pakistan are the crux of such presence for they are outside Russia ’s strategic domain in Central Asia, and they constitute both the vital corridor for independent Western access to Central Asia and the primary route of pipelines transporting the region’s hydrocarbons to the West (or China ). Moreover, Western military presence in Afghanistan and Pakistan would </span></span>**calm down India ’s warranted anxieties **of strategic encirclement and the imperative of an audacious breakout, thus** significantly reducing the threat of Indo-Pakistani crisis and war.
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The Obama White House, however, is going to undermine these vital interests of the entire West and abandon everything.</span></span>**

U.S.-India relations are key to trade, our presence in Asia and sustained economic growth
India News Online, 7 **(“Fear not a rising India: US official,” 11-5-2007, http://news.indiamart.com/news-analysis/fear-not-a-rising-in-17168.html) // JMP**
**Rather than fear India's global transformation, it's critical for the United States to forge broad-based partnerships with a country increasingly exerting its influence on the world, suggests a senior American defence official.**
**"It's about maintaining a type of equilibrium, about accepting India's rise into a type of maturity and power and prowess I think we broadly welcome," said James Clad, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defence for South and Southeast Asia.**
**"The US-India strategic potential is very, very profound," he told Online journalists in a conference call from the Pentagon on Oct 31.**
**"We're coming into something that's naturally there. It's like a seat which is already at the table, and we're sliding into it."**
**"It's been slow in coming - I think it will be slow in coming in the future - but it is steady. The trend lines are unmistakable," Clad said, describing the relationship as one consisting of multiple rich layers.**
**Comparing US relationship with India and Pakistan, Clad said while Pakistan continues to search for Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden and help wage the global war on terrorism, the US-Indian relationship is more important in the long run.**
**"I think it's fair to say, and it goes back to the previous administration as well as this present administration, that the importance of India...just in terms of trade, in terms of** presence in Asia**, in terms of self-sustaining economic development, that India simply must, as a long-term consideration, matter more for us than Pakistan," he said.**

Prevents conflict
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Levkowitz, 8</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> – The International Relations Department, Hebrew University (May 2008, Alon, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “The seventh withdrawal: has the US forces' journey back home from Korea begun?” vol. 8, no. 2., Oxford Journals, JMP)</span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Regional tasks – From a regional, strategic point of view, the importance of the US forces is threefold: preventing any changes in the balance of power in the region (Cumings, 1983; Clark, 1992); acting as a regional pacifier by allowing the US to respond very quickly and prevent a conflict from escalating in case a conflict arises outside or within the Korean Peninsula; and signaling US commitment not only to Korea but also to Japan and other Asian US allies in the region (Lee, 1978, pp. 107–108, 1982, p. 102). </span></span>**

This will escalate to a global nuclear war
Ogura & Oh, 97 **– *teaches Marxist Economics at Toyama University in Japan, AND teaches political economy at Waikato University in New Zealand (Toshimura Ogura and Ingyu Oh, Monthly Review, “Nuclear clouds over the Korean peninsula and Japan,” April 1997, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1132/is_n11_v48/ai_19693242/pg_8)**

**North Korea, South Korea, and Japan have achieved quasi- or virtual nuclear armament. Although these countries do not produce or possess actual bombs, they possess sufficient technological know-how to possess one or several nuclear arsenals. Thus, virtual armament creates a new nightmare in this region - nuclear annihilation. Given the concentration of economic affluence and military power in this region and its growing importance to the world system, any hot conflict among these countries would threaten to escalate into a global conflagration.**

Turns democracy
Ayoob, 2k **– distinguished professor of international relations at Michigan State University (Mohammed, Winter 2000, The Washington Quarterly, accessed via Project Muse)**

**Furthermore, the recent emphasis in U.S. rhetoric on creation of a "democratic community of states," itself based on a popularized version of the "democratic peace" thesis, can be expected to aid in improving Indian-U.S. relations. The two states crucial to legitimizing the idea of a global democratic community are obviously the world's largest democracy (India) and the world's most powerful democracy (the United States), and their partnership is essential for the idea to be taken seriously. [[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.library.carleton.ca/journals/washington_quarterly/v023/23.1ayoob.html#FOOT3|3]] If democracy and human rights are to inform U.S. foreign policy making in any substantial fashion in the coming decade, Washington's relations with New Delhi must inevitably move to a higher plane of understanding and cooperation.**

Despite talk of withdrawal, the U.S. is building military bases for its troops in Afghanistan. This evidence is both newer and better than their evidence.
All Voices, 8/23 **(8/23/10, “Afghanistan: Talk is about withdrawal, action about building bases,” [[http://www.allvoices.com/contributed-news/6581222-afghanistan-talk-is-about-withdrawal-action-about-building-bases]], JMP)**

**The Pentagon says it plans to spend $100 million on air base expansions in Afghanistan. Construction will continue into at least 2011. Although withdrawal is supposed to begin in July 2011 construction deadlines are being extended. All these air bases are for the use of U.S. forces only so they are not being built for Afghans.**
**The House and Senate Appropriations committees have approved further requests for 1.3 billion in additional funds for multiyear construction of military facilities in Afghanistan. The full Senate has not yet voted on this request. I would bet that it will pass! The U.S. tax payer can also look forward to funding facilities for the Afghans!**
**The United States already set aside $5.3 billion to build facilities for the Afghan army and national police, according to a Pentagon release.**
**The broader expansion of U.S. air facilities all over Afghanistan will be used for intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance using helicopters, manned and unmanned aircraft.**
**The COIN strategy being followed by Petraeus can last up to decades, that is unless U.S. citizens finally tire of the carnage and cost and actually force the U.S. government to withdraw.**
**What is crystal clear is that the planned withdrawal in July 2011 is mostly symbolic and a sop to anti-war democrats.**


===2NC - AT Pullout Now/Inev=== 



Their evidence misinterprets US policy—2011 is a change in mission not withdrawal
LA Times, 10 **(“Biden says U.S. troop withdrawal from Afghanistan could be limited”, July 18, [[@http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/dcnow/2010/07/joe-biden-softens-approach-to-us-troop-withdrawal-from-afghanistan.html]], ZBurdette)**

**Vice President Joe Biden said Sunday that next year's drawdown of U.S. troops in Afghanistan could be as small as a few thousand troops, but added that the numbers were less important than that the war effort be transitioned from U.S. to local control.**
**Speaking on ABC's "This Week," Biden, who once predicted that a "whole lot of people" would be moving out of Afghanistan in the decrease of U.S. and allied troops, appeared to soften his approach. The change comes amid complaints from Republicans and liberal Democrats about the Obama administration's policy in Afghanistan and a withdrawal timetable for next summer.**
**Biden confirmed reports in a recent book by journalist Jonathan Alter that he had indicated that a large number of troops would be withdrawn from Afghanistan in summer 2011. But the vice president insisted that he was trying to explain that President Obama had not been outmaneuvered by the military, which opposed a deadline for troop withdrawal.**
**"The military signed on" to Obama's Afghanistan policy, Biden said. "Everybody signed on to not a deadline, but a transition, a beginning of a transition."**

India perceives U.S. commitment to Afghanistan now
Mojumdar, 9 **(Aunohita, “Afghanistan: US and India Mull Ways to Contain the Taliban”, March 22, DA: 9/12, [[http://www.eurasianet.org/departments/insightb/articles/eav032309.shtml]], ZBurdette)**

**India's low public profile may soon change. Given the considerable agreement between the United States and India on Afghanistan policy, New Delhi appears poised to assume a larger role in Afghan stabilization efforts.**
**T.C.A. Raghavan, a senior Indian diplomat overseeing the Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran division in the External Affairs Ministry, recently welcomed the 'Af-Pak' approach of developing a "coordinated policy" on Afghanistan and Pakistan. "We have always seen [the region] as a single issue," he said during a March 18 seminar on Afghanistan, organized by the Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad Institute for Asian Studies, a think-tank funded by his ministry.**
**Raghavan also welcomed the "inclination to see Iran as a stabilizing element," adding that Tehran's role in Afghanistan "cannot be minimized." The diplomat also embraced American promises to strengthen the Afghan army and remarked that the US commitment to increase its troop level in Afghanistan was a positive step and a sign of its resolve to remain committed to stabilization efforts.**

<span style="text-decoration: none;">Recent evidence proves both our uniqueness and link </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Karl, 8/31 – </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Asia Strategy Initiative (8/31/10, David, “US-India relations: Problems posed by Afghanistan and Iran,” </span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/08/31/us-india-relations-problems-posed-by-afghanistan-and-iran/]], JMP)</span></span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">After much criticism for appearing to neglect New Delhi while courting Beijing, the Obama administration is now moving to inject a sense of urgency and momentum into US-India relations. But just as bilateral affairs seem to have acquired new dynamism, differences over Afghanistan and Iran threaten to undermine positive developments.</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">There are several factors that explain India’s drop from Washington’s foreign policy priorities. The Obama administration took office viewing Asia’s evolutions differently to the Bush era. And Obama’s prioritising of high profile engagement with Beijing on an array of global governance issues has diverted strategic focus from New Delhi.</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In an address on US policy in Asia in November 2009, Obama failed to mention India even in passing. The omission was all the more glaring as Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was due in Washington for a state visit a little over a week later.</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">But China’s treatment of Obama during his state visit to Beijing in November 2009 and at the climate summit in Copenhagen a month later has seen the administration revert to Bush-era strategic balancing vis-à-vis China.</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The Bush administration’s publicly denied but widely understood goal was to build India’s strategic potential as a check against the rise of Chinese power.</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Is this also the goal of the Obama administration?</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Undersecretary of state for political affairs, William J. Burns, has affirmed in a recent address that the Obama administration is ‘</span></span>deeply committed to supporting India’s rise.’ Burns has also called for India’s greater diplomatic and military involvement in East Asia and for enhanced US-Indian defence cooperation; ideas that are bound to irritate leaders in Beijing.**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A month later, Michele Flournoy, undersecretary of defence for policy, echoed these themes by proclaiming that ‘India’s success is very much in America’s national interest.’</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This heightened focus on India increases the likelihood that President Obama’s trip to India will establish new milestones in bilateral relations.</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">But any attempt to strengthen this relationship will not be problem-free.</span></span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The first of these is Afghanistan. Obama may need to shore up his domestic political base by accelerating the drawdown of US military forces in Afghanistan. This would have obvious implications on Pakistan, and could in turn have </span></span>serious consequences for US-India relations.**







=<span class="Underline">Futenma Neg – (Damien Ghill Semis/Grapevine)</span>= 




==<span class="Underline">Restructuring CP</span>== 



Text: The United States federal government should pursue a bilateral agreement with Japan affirming a joint commitment to a continued, long-term US air and naval presence at Kadena and Yokosuka. 

we only read this plank v. Damien - 
The United States federal government should issue a public announcement proclaiming that United States military presence in Okinawa is not meant to prepare for an invasion of the People’s Republic of China and are solely for deterrence purposes. 

Their 1ac author concludes for the counterplan – no reduction is necessary just restructuring. 

Ennis 10**, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 6-8-10 (Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” Dispatch Japan, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html)**

**<span class="Underline">It’s not too late for the US and Japan to turn the Futenma controversy into a win-win situation, but that would require US willingness to discuss significant restructuring of the Marine presence on Okinawa, beyond what is already planned. The first, interim step would be a sincere effort by the US to significantly relocate Marine and Air Force training exercises to different parts of Japan. Rather than spending political capital on promoting the wildly unpopular Henoko plan, Kan would be better off pressing governors in other prefectures to accept more US military personnel for basing and training purposes. Beyond that, the US and Japan should lock in a firm bilateral understanding on the vital need for a continued, long-term US air and naval presence at Kadena and Yokosuka respectively. Japan should be fully part of US regional force structure planning for East Asia, looking at opportunities for joint basing of US and SDF forces, and for ways in which expanded Japanese operational capabilities could best complement those of US forces and alliance goals. Seen in that context, the Futenma issue becomes more of a manageable irritant than a perilous fault line that threatens to shake the alliance to its core. The Obama administration shows no signs of seeing the issue this way, however, which unfortunately sets the stage down the road for renewed tensions between Washington and Tokyo. </span>**


==<span class="Underline">Alliance Adv / Deterrence Adv </span>== 




===1NC=== 



Your evidence is old news – the most recent report unveiled by the DPJ affirms the critical deterrence role Marines in Okinawa serve. Tension over Futenma has been resolved. 

Xinhua ’10 **(Sept. 10, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english2010/world/2010-09/10/c_13488603.htm, twm)**

**<span class="Underline">Japan's annual defense report released on Friday underlined the vital role played by U.S. military forces stationed in Japan in protecting Japan and its neighbors in the region. The 488-page Defense of Japan 2010 report also stressed Japan 's bilateral security alliance with the United States, noting that U.S. military presence in Japan was significant in providing deterrence against a possible attack on Japan. The report document said the U.S. Marines stationed in Japan need to be positioned at a strategic place to ensure this deterrence. It hinted that the southwestern prefecture of Okinawa is a better geographic location for the Marines to respond to emergencies in East Asia than Hawaii, Guam or the U.S. mainland. Tokyo and Washington agreed in May to move the U.S. Marine Corps' Futenma Air Station from the densely populated residential area of Ginowan in Okinawa to the less crowded Henoko district at the Marines' Camp Schwab in Nago within the prefecture by 2014. The report reviewed defense-related developments in the past year ending mid-August. It was the first defense white paper unveiled by the government led by the Democratic Party of Japan ( DPJ). In addition, the document said that the Democratic People's Republic of Korea's (DPRK) nuclear programs and missile activities are an "extremely destabilizing factor" for the security of Japan and other countries in the Northeast Asian region. </span>**

You are wrong – giving up Futenma now will just spur more movements to push us not just out of Japan but out of other bases which means are internal link to the impact is necessarily bigger. 

Feffer 10**, co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, ’10 (John, Mar. 6, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh02.html, twm)**

**<span class="Underline">Wherever the US military puts down its foot overseas, movements have sprung up to protest the military, social, and environmental consequences of its military bases. This anti-base movement has notched some successes, such as the shut-down of a US navy facility in Vieques, Puerto Rico, in 2003. In the Pacific, too, the movement has made its mark. On the heels of the eruption of Mt Pinatubo, democracy activists in the Philippines successfully closed down the ash-covered Clark Air Force Base and Subic Bay Naval Station in 1991-1992. Later, South Korean activists managed to win closure of the huge Yongsan facility in downtown Seoul. Of course, these were only partial victories. Washington subsequently negotiated a Visiting Forces Agreement with the Philippines, whereby the US military has redeployed troops and equipment to the island, and replaced Korea's Yongsan base with a new one in nearby Pyeongtaek. But these not-in-my-backyard (NIMBY) victories were significant enough to help edge the Pentagon toward the adoption of a military doctrine that emphasizes mobility over position. The US military now relies on "strategic flexibility" and "rapid response" both to counter unexpected threats and to deal with allied fickleness. The Hatoyama government may indeed learn to say no to Washington over the Okinawa bases. Evidently considering this a likelihood, former deputy secretary of state and former US ambassador to Japan Richard Armitage has said that the United States "had better have a plan B". But the victory for the anti-base movement will still be only partial. US forces will remain in Japan, and especially Okinawa, and Tokyo will undoubtedly continue to pay for their maintenance. Buoyed by even this partial victory, however, NIMBY movements are likely to grow in Japan and across the region, focusing on other Okinawa bases, bases on the Japanese mainland, and elsewhere in the Pacific, including Guam. Indeed, protests are already building in Guam against the projected expansion of Andersen Air Force Base and Naval Base Guam to accommodate those Marines from Okinawa. And this strikes terror in the hearts of Pentagon planners. In World War II, the United States employed an island-hopping strategy to move ever closer to the Japanese mainland. Okinawa was the last island and last major battle of that campaign, and more people died during the fighting there than in the subsequent atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined: 12,000 US troops, more than 100,000 Japanese soldiers, and perhaps 100,000 Okinawan civilians. This historical experience has stiffened the pacifist resolve of Okinawans. The current battle over Okinawa again pits the United States against Japan, again with the Okinawans as victims. But there is a good chance that the Okinawans, like the Na'vi in that great NIMBY film Avatar, will win this time. A victory in closing Futenma and preventing the construction of a new base might be the first step in a potential reverse island hop. NIMBY movements may someday finally push the US military out of Japan and off Okinawa. It's not likely to be a smooth process, nor is it likely to happen any time soon. But the kanji (a form of Japanese writing) is on the wall. Even if the Yankees don't know what the Japanese characters mean, they can at least tell in which direction the exit arrow is pointing. </span>**


===2NC=== 



Our evidence is more recent than theirs and that’s important because there have been significant changes in Japan’s perception of the Chinese threat. Also, our turns have built in uniqueness - the Japanese defense report cited stresses the importance of the US-Japan alliance and the importance of ha 

Hiyama ’10 **Sept. 10 (Hiroshi, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5hKwfIS4lLooYEbDkUo-lNNzI97EQ, ellipses in original, twm)**

**<span class="Underline">Japan voiced concern over China's growing military muscle in a defence paper Friday, as a row with Beijing continued over the arrest of a Chinese trawler captain in disputed waters. In its annual Defence of Japan report, Tokyo pointed to increased Chinese naval activities near its shores, including tense incidents this year in which Chinese helicopters staged close fly-bys of Japanese warships. As it has in past years, the defence ministry report, approved by Prime Minister Naoto Kan's cabinet in the morning, urged Beijing to be clearer about its military spending, including on its blue-water fleet. "China has been intensifying its maritime activities, including those in waters near Japan," the document said, adding that Beijing had failed to "disclose a clear, specific future vision of its military modernisation". "The lack of transparency of its national defence policies and the military activities are a matter of concern for the region and the international community, including Japan, which require prudent analysis," it said. Defense Minister Toshimi Kitazawa told reporters that China's military strength has significantly changed from last year through this year. "It is the reality. By clearly writing that... I think we were able to firmly express our current understanding," he said. The report came amid growing concern in the region over China's increased assertiveness in claiming maritime territories, including in the South China Sea, where it has competing claims with Vietnam and other countries. A Pentagon report last month said China was ramping up investment in nuclear weapons, long-range missiles, submarines, aircraft carriers and cyber warfare, and building up a force that could strike as far as the US territory of Guam. In March, China said it was raising its defence budget by 7.5 percent to 532.1 billion yuan -- 77.9 billion dollars at the exchange rate of the time. The Pentagon paper estimated China's overall military-related spending was more than 150 billion dollars in 2009, with areas included that did not figure in the publicly released budget. Japan's report was released in a week when Beijing and Tokyo both issued diplomatic protests in a war of words over Japan's arrest Wednesday of a Chinese skipper whose boat collided with two Japan Coast Guard vessels. The incident took place near an uninhabited island chain in the East China Sea -- a string of rocky outcrops known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China -- which lie in rich fishing ground. China's foreign ministry on Thursday called the captain's arrest "absurd, illegal and invalid" and warned that, if badly handled, it "could have a serious impact on the larger interests of China-Japan relations". Tokyo suspects the captain deliberately rammed the two Japanese vessels in a confrontation near the disputed island chain. The Asian giants have started talks to jointly exploit energy deposits in maritime areas where their exclusive economic zones overlap, but tense incidents at sea have often set back relations between the traditional rivals. In April, Japanese warships followed a Chinese naval flotilla of 10 vessels, including submarines and destroyers, that sailed in international waters between far-southern Japanese islands, an unusual move that jittered Tokyo. In response to the surveillance, the Chinese fleet sent helicopters to buzz the Japanese ships in close fly-bys, sparking diplomatic protests from Japan. The increased Chinese activity in its southern waters has sparked a defence rethink in which Japan plans to deploy more forces to its scattered southern islands and away from Cold War-era locations in the north near Russia. The defence report also stressed the importance of Japan's 50-year-old security alliance with the United States, which has dozens of bases and almost 50,000 troops stationed in the island nation. The wide-ranging paper also highlighted the threat posed by communist North Korea, calling its nuclear and missile programmes an "extremely destabilising factor", and looked at emerging threats such as cyber warfare. It also maintained Japan's claims on small islands disputed with South Korea, which are called Takeshima in Japan and Dokdo in Korean. Japanese officials reportedly delayed the publication of the white paper by more than a month to avoid angering Seoul ahead of the August 29 centennial of imperial Japan's annexation of the Korean peninsula. </span>**

Japan has changed their mind about US forces at Futenma – they are increasingly concerned with the Chinese threat. 

Foster ’10 **Sept. 10 (Malcolm, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5haU5aG_BgZ-flNxq9-cpxKRCK9swD9I52JN80, twm)**

**<span class="Underline">Japan's Defense Ministry stressed the importance of U.S. military forces in Japan and cast a wary eye on China's military expansion in an annual report Friday, as diplomatic tensions with China rose following a collision near disputed islands. The annual defense policy report also said a group of South Korean-controlled islands, called Dokdo in Korean and Takeshima in Japanese, were an "integral" part of Japanese territory — prompting protesters in South Korea's capital to try to burn a Japanese flag in a show of anger. The report's release comes amid a growing diplomatic dispute between Japan and China. Beijing has warned Tokyo that bilateral ties could be damaged over the arrest of a Chinese fishing boat captain whose ship collided with two Japanese patrol vessels Tuesday near disputed islands in the East China Sea. China has increased its activity in Japanese waters to defend its territory, protect its maritime interests and deter Taiwanese independence, the defense report said. Highlighting China's increased military spending, it said Beijing's lack of openness in its defense policies and military activities were "a matter of concern for the region and the international community, including Japan, which should require prudent analysis." It said China has not disclosed specific information about its weapons, procurement goals, details of major units and its national defense budget. China has released defense reports every two years since 1998 but has not yet achieved the level of transparency expected for "a responsible major power in the international society," it said. China also is developing the technology needed for possessing its own aircraft carrier, it said. The report highlighted the importance of American forces based in Japan under a security pact that marks its 50th anniversary this year, saying they act as a deterrence that contributes to Japan's defense as well as regional security. In particular, having U.S. forces on the southern Japanese island of Okinawa offers a strategic advantage because of its geographic location, allowing them to respond more quickly to emergencies in East Asia than if they were based in Hawaii, Guam or the U.S. mainland, it said. However, many residents of the island of Okinawa, which hosts three-quarters of all U.S. military facilities in Japan, want the bases moved off the island. Under a 2006 agreement to reorganize the 47,000 U.S. troops in Japan, Washington is to move 8,000 Marines from Okinawa to the U.S. territory of Guam and relocate U.S. Marine Air Station Futenma, set in the middle of a city, to a less crowded part of the island by 2014. The report said that moving Futenma out of Okinawa — as proposed by former Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama — would hinder the Marines' response capabilities, and it was "unavoidable" to keep the base's operations on the island. </span>**

US base on Okinawa key to protect Japan from being attacked. 

CNN ’10 **Sept. 10 (http://www.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/asiapcf/09/10/japan.china.paper/?hpt=Sbin, twm)**

**<span class="Underline">China's military puts the scare into Japan and the U.S. is a key to keeping peace in the region, Japan's Defense Ministry said in a white paper Friday. "The lack of transparency in [Chinese] national defense policies and the direction of military power are a concern for the region and the international community, including our country, and we need to carefully analyze it," the 488-page Defense of Japan 2010 report says, according to Japan's Kyodo news agency. The annual report cites worrisome moves by China's military, including 10 Chinese submarines and destroyers being spotted west of Japan's Okinotori Island in April 2010 and a Chinese nuclear submarine entering Japanese waters in November 2004. Conflicting claims to territorial waters and islands -- and the natural resources that go with them -- are one of the Asia-Pacific region's flashpoints. China disputes most of its neighbors' claims and claims nearly the entire South China Sea as its own. Japan and China are currently involved in a conflict over a Chinese trawler that collided with Japanese patrol ships Tuesday off the disputed Diaoyu Islands, in the East China Sea. The Japanese coast guard arrested the trawler's captain, alleging that he obstructed public officers while they performed their duties. "China will never accept the Japanese side's applying domestic law to the Chinese fishing boat operating in that area," said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu, according to state-run media. Japan's handling was "absurd, illegal and invalid," he said, reported the Xinhua news agency. The Japanese defense white paper also focused on the role of the U.S. military in protecting Japan from possible attack. In that role, the U.S. military is best positioned on the Japanese island of Okinawa, the report indicated. </span>**


===AT Public Backlash=== 



<span style="text-decoration: none;">Public opposition can’t force us out </span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;">Yeo 10 </span>
**<span style="display: inline !important; font-weight: normal;">Andrew, Anti-Base Movements in South Korea: Comparative Perspective on the Asia-Pacific, 14 June 2010, http://www.japanfocus.org/-Andrew-Yeo/3373, AMiles)</span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Although anti-base movements may successfully mobilize, as witnessed in Maehyangri and Pyeongtaek, </span></span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">they may not be</span> **equally** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">successful in shaping policy outcomes</span>**. More often than not, activists face significant structural constraints. In all anti-base movements, whether in Okinawa, South Korea, Guam or the Philippines, activists face great challenges when confronting U.S. base issues because political elites tend to prioritize robust alliance relations with the U.S. Whether a progressive or conservative-leaning government, regardless of who comes to power, political leaders in Tokyo and Seoul generally accept in principle the necessity for U.S. forces to provide regional stability in the mid- to long-term.** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">A pro-U.S. consensus among political leaders</span> **and bureaucracies, particularly within the defense and foreign policy establishments,** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">drowns out activist calls</span>
**<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> for an alternative security framework centered on a reduction of U.S. forces. This ideological constraint makes it difficult for anti-base movements to shift public discussion on U.S. base issues. Moreover, host governments constantly receive a mixture of political pressure and economic incentives to support U.S. alliance obligations. While some government elites are genuinely sympathetic to the plight of local residents, in most cases political and economic forces prevent these actors from executing policy changes that would significantly eliminate or ameliorate the negative effects of U.S. military presence.</span></span>**


<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Their evidence is all about public backlash in Okinawa—people on the mainland don’t care</span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">MDN 9/15 </span>**<span style="font-weight: normal;">(The Mainichi Daily News, Disappointment in Okinawa over Kan's re-election as DPJ leader, 2010, http://mdn.mainichi.jp/mdnnews/news/20100915p2a00m0na004000c.html, AMiles)</span>**

**Kan won 249 of the 300 points allocated to rank-and-file party members and supporters in the election, but Ozawa, who suggested further negotiations with Okinawa officials over the Futenma issue, won 70 percent of the votes from Okinawa.** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">"It was a result in which public opinion in mainland Japan was quite different from that in Okinawa</span>
**," commented Sueko Yamauchi, deputy secretary-general of the DPJ's prefectural chapter.**

<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Kan is taking measures to ease public backlash </span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">KNI 9/10 </span>**<span style="font-weight: normal;">Kyodo News International ’10 Sept. 10 ( [[http://newsystocks.com/news/3684914]], twm)</span>**

**Prime Minister Naoto Kan on Friday reiterated his resolve to ease the burden on Okinawa of hosting the bulk of U.S. military bases in Japan, as a council for the national and local governments to discuss the prefecture's future development convened for the first time in more than five years. ''The panel is important and I'm grateful that it was organized for the first time since the change of government (last year),'' Kan said. ''I'm hoping for serious consideration on a range of issues related to the prefecture, including its development measures and how to lessen the burden of hosting the bases.'' Kan is not an official member of the panel but attended the meeting, held for the first time since April 2005, as the prime minister is serious about Okinawa matters, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshito Sengoku said at a news conference. At the meeting, Okinawa Gov. Hirokazu Nakaima and all of Kan's Cabinet members agreed to launch two subcommittees, one tasked with the future development of the prefecture and the other with the alleviation of the base-hosting burden. So far, the council has no plans to address the issue of relocating the U.S. Marine Corps' Futenma Air Station within the prefecture, Sengoku said. The convening of the panel comes as local opposition to the central government remains strong over an agreement it reached in May with the United States to relocate the base within the prefecture.**

<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Their evidence doesn’t assume the Cheonan sinking </span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">EWC 9/10 </span>**<span style="font-weight: normal;">East-West Center ’10 Sept. 10 ( [[http://www.eurasiareview.com/201009108080/post-cheonan-northeast-asia-poses-policy-challenges-for-us.html]], twm)</span>**

**With a rising China, a destabilizing North Korea and a politically shifting Japan, Northeast Asia poses some big challenges for U.S. policymakers, two former National Security Council officials said recently at an informal briefing at the East-West Center. But some of the Obama administration’s biggest policy hurdles related to the region may actually lie at home, they said, such as securing congressional approval on critical trade agreements. During the informal session with journalists and EWC officials, Victor Cha, now director of Asian studies at Georgetown University and Michael Green, associate professor at Georgetown and the Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, discussed evolving security, economic and social concerns in the region. Both held National Security Council staff positions in the George W. Bush administration. They were in Honolulu working on research projects as EWC visiting fellows. During the discussion, East-West Center President Charles E. Morrison noted that Northeast Asia is an area “where we have a nuclear proliferation threat in North Korea; where we have an emerging power, China, whose economy may surpass that of the United States in the coming decades; and where we have a traditional ally, Japan, that is going through some very difficult leadership and political challenges.” Green said the March sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan in what a multinational investigation team concluded was a North Korean torpedo attack sent a shockwave of effects through the entire region. For example, he said, the implications of the attack contributed to the recent leadership change in Japan, and caused some factions there to reconsider their criticism of the U.S. military presence in the country. The abrupt resignation of short-lived Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama was only the latest twist in the seemingly ever-changing Japanese leadership saga that has made it harder for the U.S. to maintain a strong strategic relationship there, he said.**


<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Alliance strong now </span>
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="mso-ansi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Bader 10 </span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">Jeffrey <span class="Author-Date"><span style="mso-ansi-font-size: 11.0pt;">6/7</span></span>,</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> <span class="Author-Date"><span style="mso-ansi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Senior fellow at Brookings-</span></span> </span>**Director of the John L. Thornton China Center, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="mso-ansi-font-size: 11.0pt;">6/7</span></span>/10 [Keynote Speech: US-Japan Alliance at 50: Toward a Reenergized Partnership” [[http://stimson.org/japan/pdf/Transcript_Jeff_Bader.pdf]], twm]**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: TimesNewRoman;">The sinking of the South Korean naval vessel, Cheonan, by North Korea served as a dramatic reminder that Northeast Asia is still “a dangerous neighborhood.” </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The Japanese Cabinet noticed</span>**. The Japanese government also experienced some difficulties in its relationship with China, in which it had invested a considerable amount. The DPJ has come to understand with increasing clarity that others in the region have been watching closely the U.S.-Japan alliance, and Japan could not afford the impression of a rift to “gain traction.”** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">It turns out that all politics is not 100 percent local, </span>**as it had been seen in Japan for some months before then. The decision came against a series of other policy decisions by the Japanese government that demonstrate that the alliance is about more than basing issues. Japan has allocated $900 million in its current budget towards a multi-year, $5 billion, pledge to the Afghan Army and police, including for rehabilitation and training of demobilized Taliban and important development projects. Japan, like the United States, believes that peace and security in Afghanistan depend significantly on stability in Pakistan, and Tokyo has pledged $1 billion in assistance to Pakistan and hosted a major pledging conference. Japan has strongly backed the Republic of Korea, in the face of aggression from the North, in the wake of the Cheonan incident. Its solidarity with South Korea has been firm and public. Japan has sought trilateral cooperation with the U.S. and South Korea, and taken a leading role in fashioning a UN Security Council response. As a member of the UN Security Council, this year, Japan is supporting the U.S.–led draft of a resolution on Iran. Prime Minister Kan – Prime Minister to be Kan – indeed reiterated that support in his first conversation with President Obama, this past week. Japan’s leadership has made clear recently that it favors U.S. participation in an eventual East Asian Community, a change taken from the DPJ position last fall. Japan strongly supported President Obama’s initiatives in the April Nuclear Security Summit and worked closely with the U.S. delegation at the NPT Review Conference in May. So, nine months after the DPJ’s electoral victory, the scorecard, from the U.S. perspective, at last, is positive and improving. There has been lots of attention to what a rough ride it has been, to the precipitous decline in Hatoyama’s polling numbers and, ultimately, his demise, his political demise, to the difficulties of the DPJ government in “getting its feet under it.” And now the – as I said – the resignation. I’ll leave to experts on Japan the analysis of these, but from the viewpoint of the U.S., the larger issue, in conclusion, is this:** <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">That Japan has gone through the single most dramatic political change in 50 years – after 50 years of stasis in party rule, and the U.S.-Japan alliance has emerged in sound condition, having been scrutinized and ultimately validated by the new political leadership. This is, in one sense, not surprising, since 80 percent of all Japanese, in polling, support the alliance.</span>** That is the indispensible foundation for the alliance.


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]