=Impacts= 
[[toc]]
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[2010-2011 — Kinkaid (TX) — Vivek Datla & Zach Rosenthal|Back to main page]]</span>
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Economy</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC Japanese Economy</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Japanese economy is resilient** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Fukui 6</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Toshihiko Fukui, Governor of the Bank of Japan, at the Kisaragi-kai meeting in Tokyo on November 7, 2006, “The Outlook for Japan's Economy and the Conduct of Monetary Policy,” http://www.boj.or.jp/en/type/press/koen/ko0611a.htm]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-weight: normal;">The assessment</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> from the second perspective -in which ….</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-weight: normal;"> the economic expansion and rising prices stall</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Alt cause—deflation and strength of the Yen** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Time 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[“Can Japan Put Its Economy Back on Track?” 1/7 http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1952185,00.html]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mired in deflation and lagging … damage to a minimum."</span>**</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Bennet & Nordstrom</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**No impact to economic collapse—lack of resources prevents military competition.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bennett & Nordstrom 2k</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[D. Scott Bennett and Timothy Nordstrom, February 2000. Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State. “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, Ebsco.]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In this analysis<span class="CardtextChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, we focus on using economic conditions to understand when rivalries are likely to escalate or end</span></span>. Rivalries are an appropriate set of ... As such, they demand a research design that can account for substitutability between them.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Even if diversionary conflicts occur they won’t escalate.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 12pt;">Bennett & Nordstrom 2k</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[D. Scott Bennett and Timothy Nordstrom, February 2000. Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State. “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, Ebsco.]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; font-size: 12pt;">When engaging in </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">diversionary actions in response to <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">economic problem...</span></span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> against target states experiencing economic problems</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Heg</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Resilient/Inev</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Heg is resilient and inevitable** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Friedman 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> [George Friedman is an American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. He has authored several books, __The Next 100 Years__ p 13-31]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We are now in an America- centric age</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. To understand this age</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> ... __<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">United States has had very little choice in it. This isn’t about policy. It is about the way in which impersonal geopolitical forces work</span>__</span>


===1NC Heg Fails=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hegemony fails—doesn’t prevent war </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kober 10 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Stanley Kober is a research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute., “The Deterrence Illusion,” The Guardian (Online) on June 13, 2010 http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11898] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The world at the beginning of the 21st century bears an eerie </span>__ ... <span style="font-weight: normal;">__and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the US could not guarantee it in Asia</span> a half-century ago__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span></span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC No Impact to Decline</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**No impact to decline—no credible threats exist that primacy prevents** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Bandow 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Doug Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. He is a former special assistant to President Reagan and the author of several books, “Military Spending — For What?,” Japan Times (Online) on January 19, 2010. http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11143] </span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The United States dominates the globe militarily</span>__ ... <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">military — one well able to defend Americans.</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Environment</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Biodiversity</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1NC No Impact</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**No impact to biodiversity—3 reasons** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**a) Adaptation** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Doremus**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Law at UC Davis – </span>**Winter 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Holly, Washington & Lee Law Review, "The Rhetoric and Reality of Nature Protection: Toward a New Discourse," 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__In recent years, this discourse …. without precipitating a collapse.__ n217 </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**b) No spill over** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sagoff 97</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">– Pew Scholar in Conservation and the Environment and past President of the International Society of Environmental Ethics </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Mark, “Do we consume too much?” The Atlantic Monthly, June] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="CHighlight">There is no credible argument</span>, <span style="font-size: 6pt;">moreover</span>, <span class="CHighlight">that … make them out to be vital cogs in the ecological machine."</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**c) Only a few species are needed** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="CHighlight">**Kimbrell 2**</span> – Executive Director of the International Center for Technology Assessment and the Center for Food Safety </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[Andrew, The Fatal Harvest Reader: The Tragedy of Industrial Agriculture, p. 83-4] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">There is a second practical problem with assigning value to biological diversity. In a chapter called “The Conservation Dileema” in my book //The Arrogance of Humanism//, I discuss the problem of what I call nonresources.</span> <span class="CHighlight">The sad fact that few conservationists care to face is that many species,</span> __perhaps most,__ <span class="CHighlight">probably do not …</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> to the invertebrates, the source of nearly all biological diversity, what biologist is willing to find a value – conventional or ecological – for all 600,000-plus species of beetles?</span></span>

==Warming== 
===1NC/2NC Cards=== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Climate impacts are overyhyped, nothing will happen for 300 years and even then it won’t be that bad, tech solves in the meantime </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lomborg 8 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">– Director of the Copenhagen Consensus Center and adjunct professor at the Copenhagen Business School, Bjorn, “Warming warnings get overheated”, The Guardian, 8/15,</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/15/carbonemissions.climatechange]]</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">These alarmist predictions are becoming quite bizarre, and could be dismissed as sociological oddities, if it weren’t for the fact </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">a net benefit now; and even in three centuries, it will not be a challenge to our civilisation.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> Further, the IPCC expects the average person on earth to be 1,700% richer by the end of this century.</span>

**Multiple recent studies confirm the correlation between cosmic rays and warming – massive solvency deficit to emissions reductions**
**Rao, PhD in space science, January 2011**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> – (Udipi Ramachandra, PhD, space science, former chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation, current Chairman of the Governing Council of the Physical Research Laboratory at Ahmedabad, “Contribution of changing galactic cosmic ray flux to global warming,” Current Science, VOL. 100, NO. 2, 25 JANUARY 2011,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ias.ac.in/currsci/25jan2011/223.pdf]]</span>) </span>

The well established excellent correlation between low-level clouds and
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">intensity recorded during the space era 1960– 2005 is the lowest in the last 150 years. Similar conclusion has been independently reached by Taricco et al. 7 by analysing the 44 Ti activity in meteorites. </span>During the last 150 years when the [CO2] carbon-dioxide intensity increased from around 280 ppm to 380 ppm, we find the corresponding decrease in cosmic ray intensity is about 9%<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">, as seen from the data presented by McCracken and Beer 3,4 .</span>

**The capacity of the deep ocean to absorb heat means that at worst the process takes thousands of years.**
**Roe and Bauman 11**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> – (1/6/11, Gerard H. Roe, Professor, Department of Earth and Space Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, and, Yoram Bauman, Professor, Program on the Environment, University of Washington, Seattle, “Should the climate tail wag the policy dog?”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://earthweb.ess.washington.edu/roe/GerardWeb/Publications_files/martydom_draft.pdf]]</span> )</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> A key player in the physical system is the enormous thermal inertia represented</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> useful rule-of-thumb is that the relevant response time of the climate system is given by the effective thermal inertia of the deep ocean multiplied by the climate sensitivity parameter (defined as T2/R2, see, e.g., Roe, 2009). This behavior is absolutely fundamental and widely appreciated (e.g., Hansen et al., 1985; Wigley and Schlessinger, 1985). In the context of the PDF of climate sensitivity, its effects have been reviewed in Baker and Roe (2009). 1</span>

**Warming isn’t anthropogenic – 31,000 scientists agree**
**Victoria Hardy, The American Chronicle, 6/26/08, The Global Warming Scam,** <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.americanchronicle.com/articles/66237|**http://www.americanchronicle.com/articles/66237**]]</span>
<span class="Style8pt1">Others are beginning to step forward and</span><span class="StyleUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;"> 31,000 scientists have signed a petition</span> </span>
<span class="Style8pt1">professor of chemistry Art Robinson, "</span><span class="StyleUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; text-decoration: none;">Mr. Gore's movie contains many very serious incorrect claims which no informed, honest scientist could endorse</span></span><span class="Style8pt1">." World Net Daily</span>

**No impact to resource shortages**
**Lomborg 1** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">[Bjørn Lomborg is the author of //The Skeptical Environmentalist// and //Cool It//, head of the Copenhagen Consensus Center, and adjunct professor at Copenhagen Business School. The skeptical environmentalist: measuring the real state of the world, pp]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">We are not overexploiting our renewable resources.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> Worldwatch Institute </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">o make society better for our children. It is possible that we pollute so much that we are in fact undercutting our life, our long-term welfare and the opportu- nities for our future generations. To this prob- lem we shall turn next.</span>**

**Alt cause**
**Deforestation—outweighs their internal link.**
**Howden 07** [Daniel, May 14, The Independent, “Deforestation: The hidden cause of global warming”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/climate-change/deforestation-the-hidden-cause-of-global-warming-448734.html]]</span>]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">The accelerating destruction of the rainforests that form a precious cooling band around the Earth's equator</span>
contain 1,000 billion tons of carbon, or double what is already in the atmosphere.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> As the GCP's report concludes: </span>"**<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">If we lose forests, we lose the fight against climate change</span>**."

**Methane—more important than CO2.**
**Mohr 5**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">—physicist with degrees from Yale and UPenn, worked on warming campaigns and published several reports [Noam, Earth Save, “A New Global Warming Strategy: How Environmentalists are Overlooking Vegetarianism as the Most Effective Tool Against Climate Change in Our Lifetimes”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.earthsave.org/globalwarming.htm]]</span>] </span>

Methane is responsible for nearly as much global warming as all other non-CO2 greenhouse
greenhouse gas responsible for almost half of the global warming impacting the planet today.
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">Bioterrorism</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 80%;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> No risk of bioterror—organisms will die and too difficult to control </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial;">Mueller 6</span></span> [John, Professor of Political Science and International Relations at Ohio State, 0**6**, Overblown p. 20-22]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.15pt;">Properly developed and deployed, biological weapons …</span>__<span style="letter-spacing: -0.2pt;"> he seems to think </span>____<span style="letter-spacing: -0.15pt;">the task is."::</span>__ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> No risk of extinction—empirics go our way. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Easterbrook 03<span style="font-size: 10pt;">—Senior Fellow @ New Republic [Gregg, Wired, “We’re All Gonna Die!” </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/11.07/doomsday.html?pg=2&topic=&topic_set=] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-top: 5pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. Germ warfare!Like chemical agents, </span>__bio__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">logical </span>__… has ever come close to wiping out humanity__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">before, </span>__and it seems unlikely to happen__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in the future.</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China-US Relations</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Alt causes to relations** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **a. North Korean crisis** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Yonhap 11/24** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kim Young-gyo, 2010, “China needs to press N. Korea to stop provocation: U.S. scholar”, http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2010/11/24/59/0301000000AEN20101124004300320F.HTML, accessed November 26, 2010, ZR] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="color: #333333;">Ikenberry, a prominent theorist ...</span>____<span style="color: #333333;"> to North Korea about its actions."</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> **b. Iran** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Pomfret 10/18** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John—writer, 2010, Washington Post, “U.S. says Chinese businesses and banks are bypassing U.N. sanctions against Iran”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/10/17/AR2010101703364.html, accessed November 26, 2010, ZR] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">China's involvement ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">anonymity to disclose a private discussion. </span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prolif</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Iran</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**__<span style="color: black;">Zero</span>__** **<span style="color: black;">risk of Iranian prolif spilling over—their arguments are empirically denied</span>** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">Bergenas 10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Johan--Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center, August 31, “The Nuclear Domino Myth”, <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66738/johan-bergenas/the-nuclear-domino-myth]]</span>, ZR]</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">When considering the dangers of an Iranian nuclear weapons…</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black;">policymakers are only clouding nuanced thinking.</span>__ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Iran doesn’t have nuclear tech now and won’t get it** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**GSN 11/23/10**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [Iranian Nuclear Program Plagued by Technical Difficulties, [[http://gsn.nti.org/gsn/nw_20101123_2990.php]]] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Iran recently was forced to stop operating </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">going away</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he said. "If we only look at the technical problems they have with their enrichment program I don't think it will lead them to be more prepared to talk to us" (Dahl/Westall, Reuters II).</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**No impact to Iranian proliferation—deterrence** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Lowther 10</span></span> [Adam B., defense analyst at the Air Force Research Institute, Iran’s Two-Edged Bomb, NYT, 2-8, 2010, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/02/09/opinion/09lowther.html?scp=1&sq=lowther&st=cse]]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">What about</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the downside — that </span><span class="underline">an</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> unstable, </span><span class="underline">anti-American regime</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Russia, would have a much harder time justifying sales of goods and technology to Tehran</span>, further isolating the Islamic Republic.</span> </span>



==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt; margin-top: 5pt;">Wars</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Sino-Japan</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**No Sino-Japan war** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial;">Sakuwa 9</span></span> [Kentaro Sakuwa, department of political science Indiana university, “A not so dangerous dyad: China’s rise and Sino–Japanese rivalry”, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, oxford journals online] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Power transition theory thus provides a valuable …</span><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial;"> ameliorated the potential conflicts.</span></span> </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**No risk of South China Sea conflicts** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Haddick 10/15** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Robert—managing editor of Small Wars Journal and writer for Foreign Policy, 2010, “This Week at War: China Backs Down for Now”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/15/this_week_at_war_china_backs_down_for_now</span><span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">, ZR]</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Just a few years ago, ASEAN …</span> __Premier Wen Jiabao agreed to meet on Oct. 4 with Japan Prime Minister Naoto Kan in Brussels.__</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC China-US</span>=== 



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">**China won’t use military power against the US—they understand the military imbalance**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight" style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial;">Zakaria 8</span>__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Editor of Newsweek International, 200</span><span class="cite">**8**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Fareed, The Post-American World, p. 126-7]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight" style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial;">The Chinese understand </span><span style="border: initial none initial;">…</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> conflicts fought with new weapons along its periphery. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">**No War—too economically intertwined and any issues can be overcome**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight" style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial;">Lee 9</span>__</span> [John Lee, <span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #1f1f1f; padding: 0in;">fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington and research fellow in foreign policy at the Center for Independent Studies, An Insider’s Guide to Washington’s China War, 7/28/9]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight" style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: initial none initial;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial;">When it comes to U.S.-China policy, </span><span style="border: initial none initial;">…</span>__</span> cross the river peacefully."</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; padding: 0px;">2NC China-US</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">No risk of a US-China war </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Glaser 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[CHARLES GLASER is Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, March/April, “Will China's Rise Lead to War?”, Foreign Affairs, accessed April 16, 2011, ZR] </span></span>

<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px; padding: 0in; vertical-align: baseline;"> So far, the China debate among international relations theorists has pitted optimistic liberals against pessimistic </span>
<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px; padding: 0in;"> responding to China's modernization of its nuclear force. This restraint will help reassure China that the United States does not want to threaten its security--and thus help head off a downward political spiral fueled by nuclear competition.</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">China won’t use military power against the US—they understand the military imbalance </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Zakaria 8</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [Editor of Newsweek International, 200<span class="cite">8</span> [Fareed, The Post-American World, p. 126-7] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin-left: 0in;"> <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The Chinese understand how lopsided the military balance is. The China</span> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px; margin-left: 0in;"> Chinese interests. This emerges from the oldest Chinese strategic thinker, Sun Zi, who argued that 'every battle is won or lost before it is ever fought.'"</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px; margin-left: 0in;"> appears to have embarked on modernization programs that would allow it to fight and win short conflicts fought with new weapons along its periphery. </span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">No War—too economically intertwined and any issues can be overcome </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin-left: 0in;"> <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lee 9</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [John Lee, </span><span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #1f1f1f; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington and research fellow in foreign policy at the Center for Independent Studies, An Insider’s Guide to Washington’s China War, 7/28/9]</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px; margin-left: 0in;"> When it comes to U.S.-China policy, Washington is broadly separated </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> <span class="UnderlineChar">**<span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">to melt away -- out of necessity on both sides</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As Clinton and Geithner put it, quoting a Chinese proverb, "When you are in a common boat, you need to cross the river peacefully."</span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Taiwan war won’t go global or nuclear </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cliff 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Roger Cliff, Ph.D. in international relations, Princeton, M.A. in history (Chinese studies), University of California, San Diego, Assistant for Strategy Development, Office of the Secretary of Defense, and David A. Shlapak, Ph.D., senior international policy analyst, RAND Project Air Force Report, 2007] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px; margin-left: 0in;"> This situation would occur <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">if China attempted to use force to achieve</span></span> </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px;"> Beijing, preferring to maintain good relations with both. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This logic would apply even more strongly to countries outside the region, </span></span>which would be even less concerned about China’s use of force.</span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">No Taiwan war—relations recently stabilized </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Adams 9</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> [Jonathan Adams, reporter for global post and newsweek on China and Taiwan,“The dragon sharpens its claws”, global post online, 3/31/09] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px; margin-left: 0in;"> It's the stuff of dark sci-fi scenarios; the war that nobody wants. But the</span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 19px; margin-left: 0in;"> two sides' militaries will both attend a conference in Hawaii this summer.</span>


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **Democracy**</span>== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Democratic peace theory is flawed—laundry list</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Rosato 3 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">[Sebastian Rosato is an Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, “</span>The Flawed Logic of Democratic Peace Theory,” The American Political Science Review. Menasha: Nov 2003. Vol. 97, Iss. 4; pg. 585, 18 pgs]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">The causal mechanisms that comprise the normative logic do not appear to operate as stipulated </span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">wars (Singer and Small 1994). Of these 66 wars, 33 were "imperial," fought against previously independent peoples, and 33 were "colonial," waged against existing colonies.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Lack of free markets makes liberal democracies impossible</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Judis 3</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[John B. Judis is a senior editor of The New Republic and a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace “Putting Liberty First: The Case Against Democracy,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/58988/john-b-judis/putting-liberty-first-the-case-against-democracy?page=show]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">What makes constitutional liberty possible</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">? </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Zakaria </span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">bourgeoisie that upholds the </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">universal <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">rule of law as a protection against feudal state power</span></span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Backsliding stays contained and doesn’t undermine overall stability—Nigeria proves</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Akosah-Sarpong 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> [Kofi Akosah-Sarpong is a journalist with the Expo Times Independent Sierra Leone, “Bumps, but Africa's democracy rises” May 15 http://www.ghanaweb.com/GhanaHomePage/features/artikel.php?ID=182013]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__As Nigeria demonstrates, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">African democratic </span>__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">that the winds of change may be blowing at the cross-roads of democracy, economic management, leadership, African history and tradition.</span>


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Civil Wars Good**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Regional civil wars good—solve long-term peace</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Luttwak 99</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Edward N. Luttwak is a Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Give War a Chance,” July 99 http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/55210/edward-n-luttwak/give-war-a-chance]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">AN UNPLEASANT truth often overlooked is that although </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">war</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> is a great evil, it </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">does have a great virtue </span>__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">consequences of interrupting war persist while no greater danger is averted. It might be best for all parties to let minor wars burn themselves out.</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">African civil war good—key to long-term stability</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The East African 9</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> [By CHARLES ONYANGO-OBBO, “Give war a chance, if it blows away tribal allegiances,” http://www.theeastafrican.co.ke/opOrEd/comment/-/434750/633210/-/anum4h/-/index.html]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Kenya is going through__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> what Uganda did a little over two </span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__western Sudan, in which "Arab" Muslims are murdering "black" Muslims, are not__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**2NC**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Bosnia proves</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Luttwak 99</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Edward N. Luttwak is a Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Give War a Chance,” July 99 http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/55210/edward-n-luttwak/give-war-a-chance]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Today </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">cease-fires and armistices</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;"> __are imposed on lesser__</span></span>

<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__**</span>


<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">situation that would have let the postwar era truly begin. Peace takes hold only when war is truly over</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Key to sustainable peace</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Luttwak 99</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Edward N. Luttwak is a Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Give War a Chance,” July 99 http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/55210/edward-n-luttwak/give-war-a-chance]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">Too <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">MANY wars nowadays become endemic conflicts</span></span>__</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">paradoxical logic and a commitment to let it serve its sole useful function: to bring peace</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Conflicts are inevitable and get progressively worse as each side rearms—quick war solves</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Foreign Policy 5 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">["Give War a Chance?” Jan/Feb http://www.foreignpolicy.com/users/login.php?story_id=2743&URL=http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=2743]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">The international system's greatest achievement <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">since World War II</span> has</span>__</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">neighbors."</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> "These states aren't sovereign in the way Western states are," says Hironaka. "Policymakers need to understand what is actually going on.”</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Intervention worse</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Luttwak 99</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Edward N. Luttwak is a Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Give War a Chance,” July 99 http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/55210/edward-n-luttwak/give-war-a-chance]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">Peacekeepers</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;"> chary of violence <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">are</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> also </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">unable to</span>__</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">raging war would have been for the Muslims to either flee the city or drive</span>__ __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the Serbs out</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">JI Bad</span>== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">T/Plan overstretches power of judiciary—crushes environmental leadership</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Schumer 8 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Charles E. Schumer is a Senator for New York State, “Congress & the court: restoring balance.(Viewpoint essay).,” Daedalus 137.4 (Fall 2008): p74]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">The judicial trend of diminishing deference to Congress's power</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__disabled__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the aged, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">environmental concerns</span>, and gun violence__****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;">Warming</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">USA Today 9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[“EPA to propose ways to cut car emissions,” 9/15]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">In an appearance before the USA TODAY editorial board, Lisa Jackson also said </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">the agency will</span>__</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">willing to use current law to cut greenhouse gases, Jackson said </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">it would be better if Congress</span>__**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;">Extinction</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">The New York End Times 6</span>** <span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">The New York End Times is a non-partisan, non-religious, non-ideological, free news filter. We monitor world trends and events as they pertain to two vital threats - war and extinction. We use a proprietary methodology to quantify movements between the extremes of war and peace, harmony and extinction. http://newyorkendtimes.com/extinctionscale.asp]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">We rate </span>____<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Global <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Climate Change as a greater threat for</span></span>__</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">change</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">. We monitor war separately. However we also need to incorporate the dangers here .</span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;">Turn—plan destroys the economy</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Helmke & Rosenbluth 9 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Gretchen Helmke is Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Rochester, AND Frances Rosenbluth is professor of political science, Yale University, “Regimes and the Rule of Law: Judicial Independence in Comparative Perspective,” Annual Review of Political Science</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Vol. 12: 345-366 (Volume publication date June 2009, EBSCO]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">It is hard to think of a concept that enjoys stronger</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> normative </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">support</span></span></span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">role in cultivating public support for rights, they are also most at risk. Perhaps even worse, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">where independent judiciaries </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">do last, their very<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">endurance suggests </span>that they are supporting <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">dictatorship, not </span>building the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">rule of law</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0.5in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic growth prevents nuclear war</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar">The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Baltimore Examiner 9</span></span> <span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">[“Will this recession lead to World War II,” 2/26, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III]]</span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">Could the </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">current <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">economic crisis </span>affecting this country and the world</span></span></span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="UnderlineChar">**<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="UnderlineChar">**worse <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">and the terrifying possibility of World War III is averted.</span> However sometimes history repeats itself.**</span></span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**I-Law Bad**</span>== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I-law kills heg</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Rivkin 2k<span style="font-size: 10pt;">—Partner @ Baker & Hostetler LLP [David, “The Rocky Shoals of International Law”, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2751/is_2000_Winter/ai_68547471/]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">ALTHOUGH international law has always been a consideration for American foreign policymakers, it has rarely </span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">sanctioned by the "international community." They do not want to prevent U.S. global engagement; </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond;">they want to influence and control it.</span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Nuke war</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">Arbatov 7 </span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">[Alexei, corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs Russia in Global Affairs, No. 2, July-September 2007, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1130.html]</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 8pt;">However, the low probability of a new Cold War and </span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond;">the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">collapse of American </span></span>__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">threat of a terrorist act with the use of a nuclear device </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Garamond;">in one or several major capitals of the world</span>__**__<span style="font-family: Garamond;">.</span>__</span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**__Prolif Good__**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC (Iran/ME)</span>=== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Iranian prolif stabilizes the region – creates a counter to Israeli nukes.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading2Char">Kaye & Wehrey, 2007</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Dalia Dassa Kaye, Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation, Frederic M. Wehrey, International Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation, “A Nuclear Iran: The Reactions of Neighbours,” Survival, 49: 2, 111-128]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Public opinion in the Arab world is largely sympathetic__</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__investment in anti-smuggling capabilities,__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">to counter the anticipated spike in Iranian black-market activity</span></span>__.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">61</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Nuclear prolif creates incentives for de-escalation and guarantees international stability – plus, new proliferators won’t be destabilizing.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Asal & Beardsley</span></span>**, 200**<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">7</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">[Victor, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci. – SUNY Albany, and Kyle, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci. – Emory U., Journal of Peace Research, “Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior”, 44:2, Sage]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Other, more optimistic, </span>__scholars see benefits to nuclear proliferation or, perhaps__</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__threaten the plausible loss of social value commensurate with the potential gains of an attacker’.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Proliferation stops miscalculation – risks of nuclear war are too clear.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">Roth</span></span>**, 200**<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">7</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Ariel Ilan, Associate Dir. National Security Studies – Johns Hopkins U. and Visiting Assistant Prof. IR – Goucher College, International Studies Review, “REFLECTION, EVALUATION, INTEGRATION Nuclear Weapons in Neo-Realist Theory”, 9, p. 369-384]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">No</span></span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;"> such </span>__<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">potential for miscalculation exists in a nuclear conflict</span></span></span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">to engage in a war where the possibility of a nuclear exchange exists.</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Consequently, as Waltz (1990:740) forcefully argues, </span>__‘<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">‘</span>__<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond; font-size: 12pt;">the probability of major war among states having nuclear weapons approaches zero.’’</span></span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Generic</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Iranian prolif stabilizes the region – creates a counter to Israeli nukes.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kaye & Wehrey, 2007</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Dalia Dassa Kaye, Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation, Frederic M. Wehrey, International Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation, “A Nuclear Iran: The Reactions of Neighbours,” Survival, 49: 2, 111-128]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Public opinion in the Arab world is largely sympathetic__ <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__anti-smuggling capabilities,__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">to counter the anticipated spike in Iranian black-market activity</span></span>__.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">61</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Middle East prolif stabilizes – deterrence theory is true for the region – Gulf War proves.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Steinberg, 2000**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[Gerald M., Director of the program on Conflict Resolution and Negotiation and member of BESA center for Strategic Studies at bar Ilan University, Israel, the Nonproliferation Review fall-winter 2000, “parameters of stable deterrence in a proliferated Middle East: lessons from the 1991 Gulf War. Google Scholar] CMR</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__In assessing the cold War experience,__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">“the deterrence optimists” have claimed </span></span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">confrontation or crisis, a successful outcome is far from assured. Uncertainty remains the dominant factor in the context of regional confrontation and deterrence scenarios.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Iranian prolif solves regional stability.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Madson, 2006</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Peter N. Madson, Lieutenant, United States Navy, Master’s degree in National Security Affairs, 3-6, “The Sky is Not Falling: Regional Reaction to a Nuclear Armed Iran,” http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA445779]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Despite this security, </span>__nuclear states must be cautious.__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Professor </span>__Waltz examines__ <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">deter it. Quite the contrary, such attacks only further motivate states to pursue nuclear weapons.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Stable deterrence between Iran and Israel and Pakistan will ensure regional stability.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Madson, 2006</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Peter N. Madson, Lieutenant, United States Navy, Master’s degree in National Security Affairs, 3-6, “The Sky is Not Falling: Regional Reaction to a Nuclear Armed Iran,” http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA445779]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">This thesis analyzes </span>__the reaction of__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> key players in the region, the reaction of nuclear states, such as </span>__Israel__ <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__nuclear weapons,__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and use the resources that would have been wasted on preventing Iranian nuclearization to improve military ties in the region.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Iran prolif solves Middle East conflict.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Madson, 2006</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Peter N. Madson, Lieutenant, United States Navy, Master’s degree in National Security Affairs, 3-6, “The Sky is Not Falling: Regional Reaction to a Nuclear Armed Iran,” http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA445779]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">Nuclear weapons represent a new level of warfare, raising the </span></span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__achieved, it__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">provides stability, security, and as in Pakistan’s case, significant economic benefit</span></span>__.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Iran prolif gives it international legitimacy – allows de-escalation of Middle East tensions.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Gavin, 2010**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Francis J., Tom Slick Professor of International Affairs and Director of the Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law, Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, University of Texas at Austin, “<span style="color: #141413;">Same As It Ever Was: Nuclear Alarmism, Proliferation, and the Cold War.” International Security, Vol. 34, No. 3 (Winter 2009/10), pp. 7–37, Google Scholar] CMR</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__That Iran__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—surrounded by rivals with nuclear ambitions and singled out by the United States, the largest military </span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Hamas or Hezbollah with nuclear weapons) that could invite its own destruction highly unlikely__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.38</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Prolif stabilizes the Middle East.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Van Creveld, 1993**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[Martin, professor of history at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Nuclear proliferation and the end of conflict.” New York: Maxwell Macmillan Canada, Inc, 1993. p. 124] CMR</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">In practice, the </span><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">leaders of</span></span> __medium and small powers alike t__<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">end to be extremely </span></span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__whose goal in many cases is //precisely// to demolish the existing political system.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Nukes prevent conflict escalation – four reasons.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Waltz, 1981**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Kenneth, a member of the faculty at Columbia University, one of the most prominent scholars of international relations (IR) alive today,co-founder of neorealism, or structural realism, in international relations theory, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: More May Better,” //Adelphi Papers//, Number 171 (London: International Institute for Strategic Studies]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Do nuclear weapons increase or decrease the chances of war? The answer depends on whether nuclear weapons permit and encourage states to deploy forces in ways that make the active use of force more or less likely and in ways that promise to be more or less destruc­tive. If nuclear weapons make the offence more effective and the blackmailer's threat more compelling, then nuclear weapons increase the chances of war—the more so the more widely they spread </span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Dreadnought, </span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">with the greater range and fire power of its guns, made older battleships obsolete. This does not happen to missiles. As Bernard Brodie put it: 'Weapons that do not have to fight their like do not become useless because of the advent of newer and superior types”. They do have to survive their like, but that is a much simpler problem to solve (see discussion below).</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">More ev – they decrease the likelihood of wars and make de-escalation possible.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Waltz, 1981**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Kenneth, a member of the faculty at Columbia University, one of the most prominent scholars of international relations (IR) alive today,co-founder of neorealism, or structural realism, in international relations theory, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: More May Better,” //Adelphi Papers//, Number 171 (London: International Institute for Strategic Studies]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Countries more readily run the risks of war when defeat, if it comes, is distant and is expected to bring only limited damage.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Given such expectations, leaders do not have to be insane to sound the trumpet and urge their people to be bold and courageous in the pursuit of victory. The outcome of battles and the course of campaigns are hard to foresee because so many things affect them, including the shifting allegiance and determination of alliance members. Predicting the result of conventional wars has proved difficult.</span>__Uncertainty__ <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">possible to approach the defe<span style="border: initial none initial;">nsive-deterrent ideal, a condition that would cause the chances of war to dwindle</span></span></span>__.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Concentrating attention on the destructive power of nuclear weapons has obscured the important benefits they promise to states trying to coexist in a self-help world.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Nonprolif guarantees World War 3 – nuclear deterrence key.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Barnett, 2009**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[5/14/09, Thomas Barnett, B.A. in International Relations and Russian Literature, University of Wisconsin, 1984, A.M. in Soviet Union Program, Harvard University, 1986, Ph.D. in Political Science, Harvard University, Esquire Magazine, “Seven Reasons Why Obama's Nuke-Free Utopia Won't Work”</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="MsoHyperlink">http://www.esquire.com/the-side/war-room/obama-nuclear-proliferation-051409</span>]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__The president wants to rid the world of nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Sounds like he's fighting </span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">great-power war conceivable once again. Here's why </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">Obama's nuclear ideals put World War III back on the table</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">:</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Prolif decreases likelihood of conflicts.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Waltz, 1981**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Kenneth, a member of the faculty at Columbia University, one of the most prominent scholars of international relations (IR) alive today,co-founder of neorealism, or structural realism, in international relations theory, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: More May Better,” //Adelphi Papers//, Number 171 (London: International Institute for Strategic Studies]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">What will a world populated by a larger number of nuclear states look like? I have drawn a picture of such a world that accords with experience throughout the nuclear age. </span><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">Those who dread a world with more nuclear states do little more than assert that more is worse and claim w<span style="border: initial none initial;">ithout substantiation that new nuclear states will </span></span></span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">powers</span></span>__. Because they do, the measured spread of nuclear weapons is more to be welcomed than feared.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Nuclear weapons deter conflict.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Waltz, 1981**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Kenneth, a member of the faculty at Columbia University, one of the most prominent scholars of international relations (IR) alive today,co-founder of neorealism, or structural realism, in international relations theory, “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: More May Better,” //Adelphi Papers//, Number 171 (London: International Institute for Strategic Studies]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__The world has enjoyed more years of peace since 1945 than had been known in this century__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—if peace is defined as the absence of general war among the major states of the world. The Second World War followed the first one within twenty-one years. As of 1980 35 years had elapsed since the Allies’ victory over the Axis powers. </span>__Conflict marks all human affairs__ <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">this: 'Although we cannot strike back, you will find our defences so difficult to overcome that you will dash yourself to pieces against them'. The Maginot Line was to serve that kind of strategy.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Comparative ev – nukes prevents worse and more violent alternatives.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Quinlan, 1993</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Sir Michael, July, “The Future of Nuclear Weapons: Policy for Western Possessors,” International Affairs, JSTOR]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Alternatively, </span>__international behaviour might become so securely__ <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">more dangerous world, even if</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the formidable </span><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">problems of transition</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> from our present state </span><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">could be effectively managed.</span></span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">__2NC Slow__</span>=== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Middle East prolif will be slow and countermeasures prevent breakout prolif.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Riedel & Samore, 2008**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Bruce and Gary, Senior Fellow in foreign policy at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy of the Brookings Institution; **vice president, director of studies, and Maurice R. Greenberg chair at the Council on Foreign Relations**</span>, **<span style="font-size: 7pt;">CFR, "Managing Nuclear Proliferation in the Middle East.” Dec., Google Scholar] CMR</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">To prepare for dealing with these difficult choices—and mitigating the downsides of whatever decision is taken—the next U.S. administration will need early on to begin a quiet discussion with countries, especially Israel and the Arab Gulf states, which</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">deterring Iran</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, reassuring Israel, and </span>__incorporating our other allies into an effective regional balance.__**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Prolif slow – no tech.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Riedel & Samore, 2008</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Bruce and Gary, Senior Fellow in foreign policy at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy of the Brookings Institution; </span>**vice president, director of studies, and Maurice R. Greenberg chair at the Council on Foreign Relations**,** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">CFR, "Managing Nuclear Proliferation in the Middle East.” Dec., Google Scholar] CMR</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Most recently, Syria’s efforts to build a secret__</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__nuclear material or weapons from another state.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> At least one state probably has already set the diplomatic basis for doing so: Saudi Arabia with Pakistan.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Middle East prolif will be slow.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Feldman, 1997**</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[Shai, Judith and Sidney Swartz Director of the Crown Center for Middle East Studies at Brandeis University, “Nuclear Weapons and Arms Control in the Middle East, p. 30] CMR</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__The indigenous development and__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">production of nuclear</span></span></span>
<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">more limited opportunity to adjust themselves to the new dangers and constraints imposed by the spread of nuclear weapons.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**No risk of arms racing.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Lynch, 2009**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Colom, Washington Post Staff Writer</span>**,** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Foreign policy, “The nuclear caste system.” http://turtlebay.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/04/30/the_nuclear_caste_system] CMR</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Others believe </span><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">the threat of the arms race is overblown.</span></span> __"The bottom line__</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__nuclear weapon states if many more countries acquire the ability to enrich uranium or to separate plutonium from spent fuel."__</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">__2NC Bioweapons Turn__</span>=== 


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Curbing nuclear prolif causes a shift to bioweapons.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Zilinskas, 2000**</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[Raymond A., Former Clinical Microbiologist and Dir. – Chemical and Biological Weapons Nonproliferation Program – Center for Nonproliferation Studies of Monterey Institute of International Studies, in “Biological Warfare: Modern Offense and Defense,” Ed. Raymond A. Zilinskas, p. 1-2, Google Print]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__It is an odd characteristic of biological weapons that__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">military generals</span></span></span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span>__</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">contaminating water sources with bloated animal carcasses and catapulting infected cadavers into citadels (Poupard and Miller, 1992).</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Extinction.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Ochs, 2002**</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[Richard, Naturalist – Grand Teton National park with Masters in Natural Resource Management – Rutgers, “Biological Weapons must be abolished immediately” 6-9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineere</span><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">d biological weapons</span></span></span>
<span style="display: inline !important; font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">AND</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues?__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span></span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Transition</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Hegemonic transition inevitable.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Haass, 2008**</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[Richard, Pres. – CFR, Foreign Affairs, “Bottom of Form The Age of Nonpolarity What Will Follow U.S. Dominance”, May/June, L/N]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">But </span>__even if great-power rivals have not emerged,__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">unipolarity has ended</span></span>__. Three__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">explanations for its demise stand out</span></span>__. The first is__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">historical. States</span></span>__develop; they__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">get better </span></span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__sanctions or block Tehran's access to nuclear technology and materials.__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">Nonpolarity begets nonpolarity</span></span>__.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Prolif makes the transition stable preventing great power war.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Alagappa, 2008**</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">[Muthiah, Distinguished Senior Fellow – East-West Center, in “The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia, Ed. Muthiah Alagappa , p. 484]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__The__<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;"> fear of es<span style="border: initial none initial;">calation to nuclear war </span></span></span>__c__<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">onditions</span></span> __the role of__ <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">AND</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__the role of force in__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">major power strategic in<span style="border: initial none initial;">teraction</span></span></span>__. They__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">prevent the outbreak of large—scale war. Military clashes </span></span>__when they occur__ <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: Garamond;">tend to be limited.</span></span></span>