[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V – Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Must be evaluated based on ends of action, Sunstein,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17. University of Chicago Law Professor</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “In our view…fully discourage it”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The only ethical framework that respects the fundamental rights given to humans is consequentialism, David Cummisky explains</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“In such a situation…to save many”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Criterion – Protection of Rights</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention one: : In a world where nuclear weapons exist, the spread of nuclear weapons is inevitable, Blechman writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> WHY WE NEED TO ELIMINATE NUCLEAR WEAPONS—AND HOW TO DO IT Barry M. Blechman<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.stimson.org/nuke/pdf/Chap_1_Blechman_Formatted.pdf|www.stimson.org/nuke/pdf/Chap_1_Blechman_Formatted.pdf]]</span> November 17, 2009</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “On the whole…of terrorists grows.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The spread of nuclear weapons is inherently unsafe, Art,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Geopolitics Updated: The Strategy of Selective Engagement Robert J. Art International Security, Vol. 23, No. 3. (Winter, 1998-1999), pp. 79-113.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Selective engagers also…to U.S. retribution.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Supply-side pressures ensure that terrorist acquisition of nuclear material is inevitable Washington Times, 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (“FBI predicts terrorists will acquire nukes,” June 13,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.infowars.com/articles/terror/nuclear_terrorism_fbi_predicts_terrorists_will_acquire_nukes.htm]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “FBI Director Robert…if, but when.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention two: Irrational Leaders</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Leaders don’t care about the lives of their citizens – they would willingly sacrifice their lives if they thought that they would lose their power, Wolf writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A Rand Note. Barry Wolf, When the Weak Attack the Strong: Failures of Deterrence, 1991, N-3261-A</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Third, leaderships that have…of nuclear retaliation.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There is empirical precedence for weaker nations attacking stronger nations, Wolf writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A Rand Note. Barry Wolf, When the Weak Attack the Strong: Failures of Deterrence, 1991, N-3261-A</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “There have been…low-intensity conflicts.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Leaders will attack even if they arent irrational,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Professor emeritus of electrical engineering at Stanford University, SPRING 2008, by Dr. Martin E. Hellman, New York Epsilon ’66, Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence, Tau Beta Pi</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Some might argue…irrational decisions increased.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Three: Accidents</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Accidents are inevitable, Sagan writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Limits of Safety: Organizations, Accidents and Nuclear Weapons. Scott D. Sagan . Princeton (NJ) Princeton University Press, 1993.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Normal accidents theorists…secrecy between organizations.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Accidents inevitable because of human fallibility,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Pg 52 Apocalypse Never: Forging the path to a nuclear weapon free world, Tad Daley, Rutgers University Press, 2010 Writing Fellow, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War 1985 Nobel Peace Laureate Organization</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Screw-ups happen…becomes virtually inevitable.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Accidental launch leads to extinction, American Prospect writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span>, Two minutes to launch, the American prospect, 2/26/01</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “The bitter disputes over… war by checklist, by rote.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">World War 3 would cause extinction, Hellman writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> professor emeritus of electrical engineering at Stanford University, SPRING 2008, by Dr. Martin E. Hellman, New York Epsilon ’66, Risk Analysis of Nuclear Deterrence, Tau Beta Pi</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Official studies…not an option.”</span>
==Negative== 
===Terror Talk K=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We need to abandon a rhetoric of terrorism in favor of a political understanding of violence.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Annamarie Oliverio, Visiting Scholar Sociology at Stanford 1997 [The State of Injustice: the politics of terrorism and the production of order. International Journal of Comparative Sociology]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"The purpose of this ...to represent them."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The rhetoric of terrorism guarantees that such conflict continues while also legitimating state military violence, Bleiker writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Roland Bleiker, University of Queensland, 2003 [Aestheticising terrorism: alternative approaches to 11 September., the Australian Journal of Politics and history; 9/1/2003]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">For a brief revisit ..., intellectually and politically.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rhetoric of terrorism reflects an internal war being waged against society, Marden writes,</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Peter Marden, School of Social Science and Planning at RMIT U. Melbourne 2004 [Perpetual war(s) and the future of democracy. Futures]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Democracy is fighting ...is seen a sheer folly and comedic."</span>


<span style="display: inline !important; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Conventional War NC</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Feldman, Shai. 2007. “Nuclear Weapons and Arms Control in the Middle East”; Center for Science and International Affairs.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;"> "Effective deterrence requires...state's nuclear weapons. "</span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;">Bruno Tertrais (Senior Research Fellow, Fondation pour la Recherche Strategique), “The Illogic of Zero”, THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Center for Strategic and International Studies, APRIL 2010. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://wiki.victorybriefs.com/downloads/0816/Tertrais_10_The_llogic_of_Zero.pdf]]</span></span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-weight: normal;"> The equivalent destructive power ...because it had no economic rationality."</span>**


===Bioweapons DA=== 

[[#_Toc143715585]]

John and Carl Mueller, Professor of Political Science, University of Rochester, and Professor of Comparative Military Studies, US Air Force School of Advanced Airpower Studies, JOURNAL OF STRATEGIC STUDIES, March <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2000</span>, p.166.
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 20px;">Biological weapons seem... ...century French and Indian Wars).</span>
===== ===== 


[[#_Toc143715587]]
[[#_Toc143715587]]Robert Johnson, CSIS Strategic Planning, CSIS PROSPECTUS, Fall 1999, p. www.csis.org/pubs/prospectus/99FallJohnson.html.
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Conventional wars are no... ...consequences equally catastrophic.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Empirically, nuclear weapons have prevented the use of chemical and biological weapons, Payne</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Payne, Keith [president of the National Institute for Public Policy, a nonprofit research center he cofounded in 1981.] On nuclear deterrence and assurance. Strategic Studies Quarterly ♦ Spring 2009</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The possible direct ... ...meaning nuclear retaliation.”</span>





Impact: <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">﻿[[#_Toc143715591]] [[#_Toc143715591]]Ochs, Freelance Writer, ‚2002, [Richard], Biological Weapons Must be Abolished Immediately, June 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html Of all the... ...IS NOW POSSIBLE.</span>




===DOD Counterplan=== 

Text: All nations possessing nuclear weapons ought to implement nuclear security measurements consistent with DoD standards.

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The CP solves 100% of the aff, nothing is going to go wrong, the DoD writes,</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dec 96  DoD 31 50.2-M DOD NUCLEAR WEAPON SYSTEM SAFETY STANDARDS, POLICY, AND CRITERIA</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There shall be... ...Organization (NATO) allies.</span>

All of your authors that say our system is hair-trigger are dead wrong, Grossman,
Top U.S. General Spurns Obama Pledge to Reduce Nuclear Alert Posture <span style="font-family: Times;">Friday, Feb. 27, 2009 </span>By Elaine M. Grossman //Global Security Newswire http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090227_8682.php//

Chilton said it... ... but hair trigger."

<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**November-December**</span>
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> Kenny Smith Aff </span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">the criterion is protection of American rights,</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 14pt;">Morality and Foreign Policy<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/author/george-f-kennan/index.html|__George F. Kennan__]]</span> From Foreign Affairs, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/1985/2.html|__Winter 1985/86__]]</span> George F. Kennan is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton. Copyright © 1985 by George F. Kennan.</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Second, let us recognize that… acting on the basis of them</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Reject brain science [Maroney 09. Maroney, Associate Professor at Vanderbilt University Law School, “The False Promise of Adolescent Brain Science in Juvenile Justice”, Notre Dame Law Review, Volume 85, 2009] <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Just as developmental… way to other values.</span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Discrimination based on arbitrary concerns is the logic of violence and genocide.</span> [Maise 03 (Michelle, Michelle Maiese is a graduate student of Philosophy at the University of Colorado, Boulder and is a part of the research staff at the Conflict Research Consortium, “Dehumanization”, Beyondintractability.org, 2003.] <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Once certain groups… and the former Yugoslavia.</span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Mark Lipsey defines rehabilitation to help clarify the 1AC thesis, he writes,</span> THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CORRECTIONAL REHABILITATION: A REVIEW OF SYSTEMATIC REVIEWS Mark W. Lipsey1 and Francis T. Cullen2 1 Institute for Public Policy Studies, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37212; email: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[mailto:mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu|mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu]]</span> 2 Division of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 45226-0389; email: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[mailto:cullenft@email.uc.edu|cullenft@email.uc.edu]]</span> Annual Review of Law and Social Science, volume 3, 2007 <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Rehabilitation </span></span>treatment <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="text-decoration: none;">is… </span></span>of antisocial behavior; Walters 1990). </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Contention one: <span style="border-collapse: collapse; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;">GALEN <span class="il" style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: #5ea0e3; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: #ffffff;">STRAWSON</span>, THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF MORAL RESPONSIBILITY' (Received 15 September1993) Philosophical Studies 75: 5-24, 1994.</span> <span style="border-collapse: collapse; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 5pt; line-height: normal;">This may seem contrived, but essentially ...h</span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">ence for their actions. and ibid. "We are what we are, and...of the Basic Argument."</span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Contention two: Rehabilitation is effective at reducing crime. Research proves that the same kind of rehabilitation that works for juveniles is just as effective for adults, Illescas writes,</span> TREATMENT OF OFFENDERS AND RECIDIVISM: ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF PROGRAMMES APPLIED IN EUROPE Santiago Redondo Illescas*, Julio Sánchez-Meca **and Vicente Garrido Genovés*** *Universidad de Barcelona. **Universidad de Murcia.***Universidad de Valencia Psychology in Spain, 2001, Vol. 5. No 1, 47-62 The present study explored the effectiveness of a set of…<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> produce the best results.</span></span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Rehabilitation, specifically cognitive-behavioral therapy, is particularly effective at reducing recidivism among adults and juveniles – meta-analysis proves, Landenberger et al. summarize the results of two other studies, but the methodologies for those studies are available, Landenberger et al. write,</span> The Positive Effects of Cognitive-Behavioral Programs for Offenders: A Meta-Analysis of Factors Associated with Effective Treatment Nana A. Landenberger & Mark W. Lipsey Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies Correspondence: Mark W. Lipsey, Vanderbilt Institute for Public Policy Studies, 1207 18th Ave. South, Nashville, TN 37212 or mark.lipsey@vanderbilt.edu. Supported by grants from the National Institute for Mental Health (NIMH) In press, Journal of Experimental Criminology, 2005 <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Several well conducted meta-analyses… compared to control groups.</span></span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">There are four impacts to recidivism, Wilson writes,</span> Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">The effects of recidivism in the United States fall into four general categories…. cycle of criminality cannot be understated.</span> </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Contention three is that we should try them the same. The lack of jury trials in juvenile court systems denies juveniles fundamental rights, and is a net harm because it increases the likelihood they will be punished unjustly. </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Jury trials check back judicial bias, Ainsworth ‘91</span> Copyright (c) 1991 North Carolina Law Review North Carolina Law Review June, 1991 69 N.C.L. Rev. 1083 ARTICLE: RE-IMAGINING CHILDHOOD AND RECONSTRUCTING THE LEGAL ORDER: THE CASE FOR ABOLISHING THE JUVENILE COURT. NAME: JANET E. AINSWORTH * BIO: * Assistant Professor of Law, University of Puget Sound School of Law. B.A. Brandeis University, 1975; M.A. Yale University, 1977; J.D. Harvard Law School, 1980 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Additionally, </span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">the litigants in… any biases they might reveal.</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Multiple fact-finders is better than one because it forces individuals be able to defend their view-point, Ainsworth ‘91</span> Copyright (c) 1991 North Carolina Law Review North Carolina Law Review June, 1991 69 N.C.L. Rev. 1083 ARTICLE: RE-IMAGINING CHILDHOOD AND RECONSTRUCTING THE LEGAL ORDER: THE CASE FOR ABOLISHING THE JUVENILE COURT. NAME: JANET E. AINSWORTH * BIO: * Assistant Professor of Law, University of Puget Sound School of Law. B.A. Brandeis University, 1975; M.A. Yale University, 1977; J.D. Harvard Law School, 1980 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Moreover, as a general proposition, </span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">fact-finding… fleeting and unclear manner.</span></span></span>

==Negative== 
I-Law DA

The United States is committed to international law in the status quo—cites Obama and Clinton—prefer it because they make decisions regarding US policy. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Koh 10</span></span> (Harold Hongju, Legal Advisor US Department of State, Annual meeting of the American Society of International Law, Speech, Washington, DC, March 25, 2010, http://www.state.gov/s/l/releases/remarks/139119.htm)

Sentencing Juveniles to LWOP or the Death Penalty like Adults in the criminal justice system is against international law. 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Adepoju 07</span></span>—(Akin Adepoju, cum laude graduate of Roger Williams University School of Law former Marshal, Juvenile Death Sentence Lives On…, Trends and Issues in Constitutional Law, Vol. 2, 2007, http://law.umassd.edu:8080/sites/snesl/images/files/Akin%20Article%20Final.pdf)

Spillover—Whether or not international law can be incorporated domestically is dependent on the precedent of the juvenile death penalty
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bradley 2002</span></span> [Curtis A , Richard A. Horvitz Professor of Law and Professor of Public Policy Studies – Duke Univeristy, “The juvenile death penalty and international law”, Duke Law Review, http://www.highbeam.com/doc/1G1-102105768.html] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Although important on... ...</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">human rights law</span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13pt;">.</span>__

Effective international law solves every impact—US commitment uniquely key 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Institute for Energy and Environmental Research 02</span></span>—(and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, 2002 (Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties, May, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.ieer.org/reports/treaties/execsumm.pdf]]</span>)

<span class="TagsChar">he only alternative to international law is genocide and nuclear war.</span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Shaw 01</span></span> (10/3/01 Martin Shaw Professor of International Relations and Politics at the University of Sussex. “The unfinished global revolution: intellectuals and the new politics of international relations” <span style="color: #3366bb; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.martinshaw.org/unfinished.pdf]]</span>) <span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">The new politics... ...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">politics, are intertwined.</span></span>






=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==