= = 
[[toc]]
=AFFIRMATION OF THE RESOLUTION= 

----



----

==wake forest== 
=== === 
====**Conflicts**==== 

**The status quo is not an option – it invites further attacks**
**Bandow, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (4/18/10, Doug, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html</span>)</span>
It has been weeks since …to defend its own personnel.

**Bad economy makes it inevitable**
**Reuters, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (3/17/10, Jon Herskovitz, “North Korea may turn more menacing but options limited,”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE62G12T20100317</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
ANOTHER NUCLEAR TEST? North Korea… in a report this week.

**And, our presence actively __facilitates this belligerence__**
**Bandow, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812</span>)</span>
Still, does an American presence …it to deter U.S. intervention.

**Their evidence is outdated—recent changes make the North willing to risk it—it’s inevitable as long as we’re present**
**Bandow, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336</span>, )</span>
Suspicions continue to mount that North…doing so in 2010 is bizarre.

**North Korea** **will respond with __all out war__**
**GSN, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/4/10, Global Security Newswire, “War Possible at Any Time, North Korea Says,”</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100604_1842.php</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, )</span>
A high-ranking North Korean diplomat… off punishment for the incident. 

**Even if a conflict won’t start __intentionally__, current high tensions risk __accidents__ that __escalate__ to global nuclear war**
**STRATFOR, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]], )</span>
But no one, of course, is …the situation escalates much further. 

**Causes __nuclear attack__ on the U.S<span style="color: black;">. even if nukes aren’t used in Asia</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Layne, 06 – </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">professor of government at Texas A & M University (Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 169)</span>
<span style="color: black;">Rather than being instruments of regional…</span> Eurasian conflicts by its alliance commitments.

**Withdrawal solves – stops North Korea probing U.S. weakness to draw forces into a wider conflict.**
**Stanton, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – U.S. Army Judge Advocate in Korea from 98-02 and practicing attorney in Washington, D.C. (4/12/10, Joshua, The New Ledger, “It's Time for the U.S. Army to Leave Korea,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/04/11/opinion/main6386737.shtml</span>, )</span>
Proceeding against the advice of… aligns with the correct result. 

**U.S.** **presence creates the perception of conventional weaknesses and forces North Korea to resort to CBW use**
**ICG, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx</span>, )</span>
This report examines North Korea…unauthorised WMD attacks or incidents.

**North Korean bioweapon use would __spread globally__ within __six weeks__ – greater risk that nuclear weapons**
**Levy, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html</span>, )</span>
Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack … large quantities can be developed within days. 

**Impact is extinction**
**Ochs 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
Of all the weapons of mass destruction,…, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.

**U.S. presence is useless to deter North Korea – withdrawal will motivate South Korea and China to stabilize and de-nuclearize the peninsula**
**Erickson, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Executive Director of CenterMovement.org (5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/</span>, )</span>
On the night of March 26 … brought home before it’s too late.

**A phased withdrawal prevents U.S. draw in**
**Carpenter, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, CATO Handbook for Congress, 7th Edition, “54. East Asian Security Commitments,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb111/hb111-54.pdf</span>, )</span>
South Korea The U.S. alliance … South Korea as a security client.
==== ==== 
====**Regionalism**==== 
=== === 

**U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – Asian powers should develop a regional security strategy that __does not__ rely on the U.S. – conflict, imperialism, and a litany of other impacts**
**Francis, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” [[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]], )</span>
At the conclusion of the Second World War,… create a strong, independent East Asian Union.

**Specially, withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents great power war**
**Lee, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org]], )</span>
Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security … loose form of the U.S.-Korea alliance.

**Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.**
**Espiritu, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], )</span>
Can the U.S. live with the risk of an unstable… The time is now for the Eagle to head home. 

**The plan eases the transition to a more multipolar world – trying to cling to the status quo makes hegemonic decline and conflict with China inevitable**
**Bandow, 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (1/12/09, Doug, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“First Among Equals,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570]], )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It’s the job of military planners to plot … smoother will be the transition.</span>

**Territorial disputes draw in great powers --- causes World War 3**
**Waldron, 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War College and an associate of the Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard (March 1997, Arthur, Commentary, “How Not to Deal with China,” EBSCO)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MAKING THESE flash-points all…, or Japan--or the United States. </span>

**Also, plan prompts South Korean conventional force modernization which allows it to deter Chinese aggression**
**Bandow, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (6/16/09, Doug, “A Tattered Umbrella,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21606]], )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea’s foreign minister reports … dispute into an international crisis.</span>

===**China**=== 
=== === 

**US-Presence in South Korea is destroying US-Chinese relations and has become a means to assert power against China in the region risking a return to Cold-War confrontation and causing China to support the DPRK.**
**The National 9/5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Arab newspaper (9/5/10, “A ‘new Cold War’ in the Yellow Sea”, [[@http://www.thenational.ae/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20100906/FOREIGN/709059912/1140]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"This is the beginning of …prevent tensions from escalating,” he said.</span>

**Withdrawal from South Korea leads to China sharing both a regional leadership burden and a global leadership burden with the US and increases relations-solves accidental war with China, stops friction with Japan and yields a nuclear free peninsula**
**Garfinkle, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” [[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]], )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NO NORMAL DIPLOMACY The U.S…We can help them do so. </span>

**US-China conflict will go nuclear**
<span class="cite">Kolko, 06 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gabriel, Historian of modern warfare, “The Age of War: The United States Confronts the World”, pg. 102)</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">It is neither possible nor… it is also consummate folly. </span>

**American support of China’s rise is key to a permanent bilateral order and reducing poverty**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Shirk - 7** (Susan, former deputy assistant secretary for China, U.S. State Department, CHINA: FRAGILE SUPERPOWER, p. 269)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our best hope is that as China's… not to try to go it alone.</span>

**Combating poverty is the litmus test for human survival—protecting the poorest of the poor is a moral and practical imperative**
<span class="Heading2Char">Solo 92</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Pam, president of the nonprofit and nonpartisan Civil Society Institute, "Who Do We Think We Are?," Cultural Survival Quarterly, 4/30, http://209.200.101.189/publications/CSQ/csq-article.cfm?id=552)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As the next millennium approaches,…and a practical imperative.</span>

**Independently, U.S. presence saps South Korea’s desire to develop its own independent defense and diplomatic strategy and boost morale to effectively deter North Korea**
**Wook-Sik, 06** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– representative of the Civil Network for a Peaceful Korea (Cheong, 4/4/06, “ROK-U.S. Alliance: More Harm Than Good” <span style="color: black;">[[http://english.ohmynews.com/articleview/article_view.asp?at_code=321054]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Considering all these figures, we … of its alliance with America.</span>

====**Plan**==== 
**Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence through a phased withdrawal in South Korea.**

----
==econ add-on== 


**Even a small war between the two countries would kill the US economy**
**Detroitbuisnessbureau.com 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(5/24/10 Mike Davis is the author. Blog. http://www.thedetroitbureau.com/2010/05/how-a-new-korean-war-would-affect-u-s-business/) </span>

Once again, as a result this …to home than you might think.


**Impact is a nuclear World War 3**
**O’Donnell, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (2/26/09, Sean, “Will this recession lead to World War III?” <span style="color: black;">http://www.examiner.com/x-3108-Baltimore-Republican-Examiner~y2009m2d26-Will-this-recession-lead-to-World-War-III</span>, JMP)</span>
Could the current economic …However sometimes history repeats itself. 


==Ohio Valley Affirmative== 
====1AC Inherency==== 
**Troops currently in South Korea do nothing to help the United States, past withdrawals prove they are non-essential**
**Bandow, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (Fall 2005, Doug, National Interest, “Seoul Searching,” vol. 81, EBSCO, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Bush__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Administration </span>__also seems … other <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">units in the South</span>.__
====Plan==== 
**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence through a phased __removal__ of its military presence from South Korea.**
====1AC Korean Conflict==== 

**Succession politics make DPRK aggression inevitable—Yeonpyeong proves that Kim Jong-un will be more aggressive to consolidate his power**
**Sidney morning herald 11/24/**2010 (**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">John Garnaut, “</span>**North Korean dictator-in-waiting linked to deadly artillery attack,” 
http://www.smh.com.au/world/north-korean-dictatorinwaiting-linked-to-deadly-artillery-attack-20101123-185p1.html, KL)
<span style="line-height: 12.75pt; margin-bottom: 9.6pt; vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">NORTH KOREA </span>____has <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">burnished the</span> … Jong-il, his son <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Kim Jong-un.</span>__</span>

**Withdrawal is necessary to prevent U.S. entanglement in Korean conflicts –Succession crisis means more North Korean provocations.**
**Bandow 11/24/2**010-- Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (“//<span style="letter-spacing: 0.4pt;">Déjà Vu on the Korean Peninsula,”</span>// [[http://nationalinterest.org/blog/the-skeptics/d%C3%A9j%C3%A0-vu-the-korean-peninsula-4474]], KL)
__With North Korea shelling a South …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">activities with a power struggle impending.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Physical presence //guarantees// US involvement and escalation</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Hornberger 9</span>** [Jacob, *founder of the Future for Freedom Foundation and former publisher for
The Freeman, “Pull Out of Korea (and Everywhere Else),” Future of Freedom Foundation, 6/16, <span style="color: black;">http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-06-16.asp</span>]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Notwithstanding its occupations of two … messes than it already has. </span>
**… Causes a __nuclear attack__ on the U.S.**
**Layne, 06 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of government at Texas A & M University (Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 169)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rather than being instruments of … conflicts by its alliance commitments.</span>


**The impact is global thermonuclear exchange resulting in extinction**
**Chol 2002** - Director Center for Korean American Peace’ (Chol,10-24, http://nautilus.org/fora/security/0212A_Chol.html)
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Any military strike initiated against … </span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">to a second-class nuclear power.</span>
====1AC Nuclearization Advantage==== 
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. troops based in South Korea don’t work as deterrents—military presence only causes instability and North Korean nuclearization</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Erickson, 10** – Executive Director of CenterMovement.org (5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the night of March 26 … </span>__home before it’s too late.__

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The plan is the vital concession for Chinese co-operation on North Korea – also resolves territorial disputes and prevents decline in relations</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> **Carpenter 10**—vice president for defense and foreign-policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, 3 August 2010, China Spats,http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/china-spats-3778)</span>

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Relations between China and the … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nothing at all in return. </span>

**The result is effective cooperation and the successful denuclearization of the peninsula**
**Bandow 11/23/2010-** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (Doug, “<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; padding: 0in;">Beijing Key in Controlling North Korea’s Recklessness</span>,” http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/beijing-key-in-controlling-north-koreas-recklessness/, KL)

__Shortly after unveiling a new uranium … in a future North Korean nightmare.__

**US engagement with North Korea is doomed to fail – only China can induce reform in the North Korea regime and solve nuclearization**
**Bandow, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (7/1, Doug, Cato Institute, “The China Card,” </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10325</span>, KL)
__North Korea appears to have … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to play the China card</span>.__


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt;">China’s recent proposals are not enough to solve, a hard-line stance is key</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt;">CNN 11/28</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.5pt;"> (11/28/2010, “China proposes 'six-party talks' meeting amid Korean tensions”, [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/WORLD/asiapcf/11/28/china.koreas.relations/index.html]], JP)</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt; vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">China is proposing to convene … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">landed in the North's waters.</span></span>

<span class="underline0">**<span style="color: black;">Guarantees nuclear war</span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black;"> Cimbala 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Prof. … __attack, thus <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">triggering a mistaken preemption.</span>__</span>
=== === 
====1AC China==== 
**US-Presence in South Korea is destroying US-Chinese relations and has become a means to assert power against China in the region risking a return to Cold-War confrontation**
<span style="margin: 0in 3.75pt 3.75pt 0in;">**The National 9/5**-Arab newspaper (“A ‘new Cold War’ in the Yellow Sea”, http://www.thenational.ae/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20100906/FOREIGN/709059912/1140)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 3.75pt 3.75pt 0in;">__“<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">This is the beginning … </span>tensions from escalating__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” he said.</span></span>

**Yeonpyeong is irrelevant: military presence is still seen as containment and hurts relations**
**Reuters 11/26/**2010 (Ju-min Park and Miyoung Kim, “China urges Korean calm, warns over naval drills,” http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSL3E6MN0SQ20101126?pageNumber=2, KL)

<span style="margin-bottom: 7.5pt;">(Reuters) - __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">China said on … </span>__shells landed in South Korea.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 3.75pt 3.75pt 0in;">**Korea is key – U.S. presence there and continued Chinese intransigence risks superpower conflict** **and miscalc**</span>
**Emmott, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Try this quiz. You lead a … </span>__it could really be war.__
**China perceives South Korean policy …** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington as a counterweight to Beijing. </span>

**U.S.-China relations solve for warming and a bunch of other scenarios leading to extinctions**
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Cohen 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (William S. Cohen is chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, a strategic business consulting firm based in Washington, D.C. Secretary Cohen served as U.S. secretary of defense, Maurice R. Greenberg is chairman and CEO of C.V. Starr & Co., Inc. Mr. Greenberg retired four years ago as chairman and CEO of American International Group (AIG) after more than 40 years of leadership, creating the largest insurance company in history, “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” pg online @http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf //ef)// </span>

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The evolution of Sino-U.S. … </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">, though not inevitable</span>__**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">, is indispensable</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//

**Warming causes extinction – action now**
**Brown 8** [Lester E. Brown, Masters in AE from Maryland and Masters in Econ from Harvard, Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]


In 2004, Stephen **…** __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">unravel under these extreme stresses.</span>__


//**And only US-China cooperation can solve warming it is impossible for either to solve alone.**//
//**Foot 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Rosemary, Professor of International Relations at Oxford, 11/24/09 “China and the United States: Between Cold and Warm Peace” </span>//Survival//, 51:6, pg 123-146)//
//__Changes in temperature are already …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">large parts of the world’.21 </span>//


//**And even a 4C rise causes starvation, resource shortage, and certain extinction.**//
//**Tickell ‘8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, 8-11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We need to get prepared … us towards </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">similar </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">hothouse Earth</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//


//**Status quo military presence is geared towards Chinese containment --- this strategy facilitates hostility and ensures Asian warfare and a Sino Taiwan conflict**//
//**Klare 06,** professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, [Michael, “**Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]**//

//__Accompanying__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">all </span>__these__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">diplomatic </span>__initiatives … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">no victors</span> from such a conflagration.__//

**Any //US-China conflict will go nuclear//**
//<span class="cite">Kolko, 06 </span>(Gabriel, Historian of modern warfare, “The Age of War: The United States Confronts the World”, pg. 102)//
//__It is neither possible nor … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">, it is also consummate folly.</span>__//



==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Emory**</span>== 

See COIN aff for Westminster WM--it is the same as theirs. 


=//NEGATIVE//= 


----


==//CORE NEG//== 

===//dip cap da//=== 
//**A. Obama is putting China under constant pressure to end their currency peg**//
//**Spetalnick and Mason 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Matt and Jeff, White House Correspondents for Reuters, 2/3/10 “On China, Obama says U.S. must address currency rates” http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6123V120100203)</span>//
//(Reuters) - President Barack Obama vowed … at a huge competitive disadvantage."//

//**B. The plan requires significant diplomatic resources to reassure allies.**//
//**Bloomfield 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lincoln, and Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs from 2001-2005 Former US Special Envoy for Man-Portable Air Defense Systems Threat Reduction,. Mr. Bloomfield previously served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs (1992-93), Deputy Assistant to the Vice President for National Security Affairs (1991-92), and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs (1988-89) among other policy positions in the Defense Department dating to 1981. He graduated from Harvard College and received a M.A.L.D. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, “Reposturing the Force: U.S. Overseas Presence in the Twenty-first Century,” Chapter 3: Politics and Diplomacy of the Global Defense Posture Review, http://www.usnwc.edu/Publications/Naval-War-College-Press/Newport-Papers/Documents/26-pdf.aspx]</span>//

//Still, a major change in defense … advances, make possible this assurance.//

//**C. Diplomatic capital is finite – each new issue trades off with another one.**//
//<span class="AuthorDateChar">Anderson and Grewell 00</span> <span class="CitesChar">(Terry L., Executive Director of the Property and Environment Research Center, J. Bishop, former research associate for PERC. He is a graduate of Stanford University, the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, and Northwestern Law School, “The Greening of Foreign Policy”, PERC Policy Series: PS-20, December 2000, http://www.perc.org/pdf/ps20.pdf)</span>//
//Greater international environmental regulation … access to foreign economies.”//

//**D.** **China is letting the yuan appreciate in response to the pressure – but we need to keep the pressure on otherwise they’ll revert back to pegging**//
//**Orol 6/20**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ( Ronald D., MA in business and economics journalism from Boston University, reporter for Marketwatch, a Dow Jones publication, commentator on BBC, CNBC, and NPR, “China to ease yuan-dollar peg; any weakening to be gradual” http://www.marketwatch.com/story/china-loosens-yuans-peg-to-dollar-reports-2010-06-20?pagenumber=1)</span>//
//WASHINGTON (MarketWatch) -- Less than a week… a meaningful way," Grassley said.//

//**E. We must end Chinese currency manipulation diplomatically otherwise it will lead to protectionism, causing economic collapse, devastating U.S. China relations, and cause a U.S.-China war**//
//**Rich 6/6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bryan, President of Logic Fund Management, a currency management and consulting firm. Former researcher for the Weiss Group, MBA from Rollins College, 6/6/10, “China’s Currency Manipulation: Factors to Consider” http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/36858/)</span>//
//China’s currency continues to … catalyst for the Great Depression.//

===//consult japan cp//=== 
//Text: The United States federal government should propose that it withdraw all troops and remove all bases in Okinawa prefecture of japan to the nation of Japan for binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation.//

//**The net benefit—**//
//**Consultation on military presence is necessary preserve the alliance.**//
//<span class="cite">The Daily Yomiuri 6/20/2010 “</span>Talks needed to boost Japan-U.S. alliance” Lexis//

//Japan and the United States … the foundation of Japan's diplomacy."//

//**US-Japan alliance key to development of democracy in Asia:**//
//Derek **__Mitchell, 2010__** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(principal deputy assistant secretary of defense for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs). “Regional Security and Okinawa in the U.S.-Japan Alliance.” March 9, 2010. Accessed June 28, 2010 from: <span style="color: black;">http://www.eastwestcenter.org/ewc-in-washington/events/previous-events-2010/march-9-regional-security-and-okinawa-in-the-us-japan-alliance/</span></span>//
//Finally, Mr. Derek Mitchell … way to resolve the concerns.//

//**Democracy promotion key to preventing inevitable extinction**//
//**__Diamond__**, senior research fellow at Hoover Institution, **__95__** (Larry,// Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and Instruments, Issues and Imperatives, //A Report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict, December 1995, p. 6)//
//This hardly exhausts the lists …accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness.//

----
===//security k//=== 
//**1ac threat framing is based on misplaced cultural discourse, fixating dangerously inaccurate Cold War logic**//
//**Grondin 2004** – PhD, Professor of Political Science at the University of Ottawa (David, “(Re)Writing the National Security State”, paper presented at the annual International Studies Association Convention in Ottawa, http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/chairerd/site/uploads/files/publications/etudes_raoul_dandurand/rewrinting_the_national_security_state.pdf)//

//I disagree with this essentialist … conditions of existence are generated.//


//**This feeds an endless cycle of enemy creation and identity formation**//
//**Wendt 1992** – the Ralph D. Mershon Professor of International Security at Ohio State, also professor at Yale, Dartmouth, and University of Chicago (Alexander, “Social theory of international politics”, pages 261-266, Google Books, WEA)//
//Enemy images have a long pedigree, … in technology (nuclear weapons).//

//**Alternative: reject the aff because their representations are flawed depictions of the world.**//

//**Only this primes us for better policymaking—the security dilemma is a product of assumptions we dispute**//
//**Widmaier 2004** – Department of Political Science, St. Joseph’s University (Wesley, International Studies Review, 6.3, “Theory as a factor and the theorist as an actor: The ‘Pragmatist Constructivist’ lessons of John Dewey and John Kenneth Galbraith”, EBSCO, WEA)//

//This realignment of debate …in international politics (Edwards 1990).//


==//AFGHANISTAN NEG//== 

===//afghan unpopular//=== 
//**Reversal on Afghanistan will destroy Obama – on balance its politically worse than staying the course**//
//**Biddle 09 –** **Roger Hertog Senior Fellow for Defense Policy**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (July-August , Stephen, “Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan”</span>//
//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617</span>//
//However, <span class="Underline">reversing policy and disengaging … TV screens with nightmarish imagery</span>.//

===//afghan bilat cp//=== 
//The United States federal government should negotiate a bilateral defense treaty with the government of Afghanistan that unequivocally commits to removing the Taliban from Afghanistan. The United States should adopt a counterinsurgency strategy that is primarily centered on protecting the Afghanistan population, and should provide all necessary resources to implement this strategy, including making the surge part of a permanent commitment to Afghanistan and clarifying that it has no withdrawal deadline. The United States should freeze the size of its training commitment to the Afghan National Army and focus on training for quality over quantity, locating ANA divisions in their local provinces, and training an ANA helicopter division for mobile operations. The United States federal government should create, fund, and support a 15 month enlistment period, including support for college and other funding, without an eight year stop-loss obligation.//

//**The counterplan formalizes the US commitment to Afghanistan, gets Pakistan on board and demoralizes the Taliban – they can no longer wait us out**//
//**<span class="Heading3Char">Lynch, 08</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- </span>U.S. Army Col<span style="font-size: 8pt;">onel</span><span class="Heading1Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">, </span></span><span class="bio"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">military fellow at the Brookings Institution, military special assistant to the U.S. Ambassador in Afghanistan (June 2008, Thomas, “Afghan Dilemmas: Staying in Power,” The American Interest Online WX)</span></span>//
//In mid-January, Defense Secretary Robert … ducked for far too long.//

//**Shifting to a population centered counterinsurgency mission solves the problem of Taliban recruiting and attrition tactics - it’s empirically effective**//
//**Tellis, 9** – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf]])//
//Reorienting the counterinsurgency campaign. <span class="Underline">… quite inhospitable to their operations</span>.82//

//**Colombia proves the counterplan’s counterinsurgency and training model works**//
//**Haddick, 10** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">A former US Marine Corps officer, the author is managing editor of </span>//Small Wars Journal//, writes the “This Week at War” column for// Foreign Policy//, and writes on foreign policy and defense issues for// The American (Robert, “//Colombia Can Teach Afghanistan (and the United States) How to Win,”// [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/home.htm|Air & Space Power Journal]] //- [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj10/sum10.html|Summer 2010]], [[http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj10/sum10/08haddick.html]])//

//Colombia’s Lessons for Afghanistan…<span class="Underline"> build an effective Afghan army.</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Shortening the enlistment time would significantly increase the number of recruits and the quality – study on college campus**</span>//
//**<span class="Heading3Char">Moskos, 02</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">**–** Northwestern University Sociology Professor, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars Fellow (September 2002, Charles, “Reviving the Citizen-Soldier,” http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0377/is_2002_Spring/ai_84557330/?tag=content;col1 ) WX</span>//
//<span class="Underline">Even though recruitment goals… life than in the military.</span>//

===//afghan withdraw da//=== 
//**Small footprint causes Taliban takeover, nuclear terrorism, and Indo-Pak war**//
//**Kagan and Kagan, 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - * <span class="Underline">former prof of military history @ West Point</span> AND </span>//military historian //(Fredrick W., Kimberly,// “//<span class="detailtitle">Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101110)</span>//
//**It is very likely that the … involving the use of nuclear weapons.**//

//**Premature withdrawal annihilates American international credibility. Emboldens adversaries and sends a global signal that the US is thoroughly undependable.**//
//**Twining ‘9** (Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia – German Marshall Fund of the US, former Member of Sec. State. Condi Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, former Transatlantic Fellow and Dir. Of Foreign Policy Program – German Marshall Fund of the US, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”, 9-30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan)//

//**The surreal belief in some quarters … neither our interests nor our values.**//

//**The impact is global nuclear war**//
//**Carafano, 10 -**// s enior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation and directs its Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies. (James, “//Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” 1/2 <span style="color: black;">http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/</span>)//
//Not much chance Obama will …<span class="Underline"> snowballed into a very big, tragic war</span>.//

//**Perception of abandment kills Russian relations and hegemony**//
//**Gordon M** Hahn **<span style="color: black;">5/21/200</span>** <span style="color: black;">9 senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California; senior researcher, Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (CETIS), Akribis Group, California; and analyst/consultant</span>. “U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism" __<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf%20p.%208-9|http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9]]</span>__ ZM//
//However, there is some space … only benefit the region’s jihadists.<span class="A7">6</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S.-Russia relations key to global cooperation that solves great power war, WMD use, terrorism, disease, prolif, and climate change</span>**//
//**Graham 8** [Thomas Graham, f<span style="color: black;">oreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University.</span> July 2008 [[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf]]]//
//**What trends? Simply put, the …building lasting security economic structures.**//

//**Warming kills billions. Risks extinction.**//
//**Cummins and Allen ‘10 (**Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)//
//The hour is late. Leading…determined to maintain "business as usual."//


===//afghan delay cp//=== 
//**The United States federal government should substantially draw down its military presence in Afghanistan by shifting from a counter-insurgency strategy to a counter-terrorism strategy that reduces its military footprint to the minimum level needed to help train afghan security forces, prevent massive human rights atrocities, resist expansion of Taliban control beyond the Pashtun south, engage in robust counterterrorism operations as needed including a decrease to 68,000 troops or less by October 2012 and 30,000 or less by July 2013 and announce it in 2012.**//


----
==//SOUTH KOREA NEG//== 

===//rok unpopular//=== 
//**The plan is political suicide**//
//**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harrison 2002</span></span>** [Selig S., Senior Scholar – Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and Director of the Asia Program – Center for International Policy, “Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement,” p. 180-182]//
//Why has <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the presence of</span> …</span> their headquarters in the United States.//


===//rok deterrence da//=== 
//**Withdrawal turns every aff scenario and triggers nuclear war—this includes allied prolif, Northern aggression, cooperation breakdowns, arms races, miscalc and pre-emption—no defense.**//
//**Richardson, 2006**//
//[Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]//

//Rumors of a substantial drawdown… stability, even in a reunified Korea.//

//**And, northern invasion causes war**//
//**<span class="cite">Huessy 3</span>** (Peter, Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states, 8/13, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560)//
//It may be wishful thinking… reason it should be supported.//

//**Japan would react with re-arm and other states would perceive our weakness—turns case**//
//**Dao, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” <span style="color: black;">http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html</span>, JMP)</span>//
//Deciding if now is… that they see in the region."//

//**That kills the NPT**//
//**Halloran, 2009**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]</span>//
//That anxiety has reinvigorated … under the US nuclear umbrella.//

//**Nuclear war**//
//**Cimbala, 2008**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]</span>//
//If the possibility existed of… of major interstate warfare.//


===//**rok econ da**//=== 
//**Plan guts investment in South Korea which collapses its economy**//
//**Magnum 04**- Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea//
//<span class="Underline">(Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf]</span>//au)
<span class="Underline">Many Koreans ignore the fact… improve the capability of its forces. </span>


**South Korean economy is key to Asian democracy**
**NEWSWEEK, 10** (1/29/10, “Selling South Korea,” [[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html]]) Calum
In short, the South Korean … than, say, that of China."


**Extinction**
**Diamond, 95 –** //Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm, KONTOPOULOS)//

//This hardly exhausts the lists… accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness.//

//**Independently, withdrawal will stop U.S. foothold in the Asian Pacific Market which will collapse the U.S. economy**//
//**Kinne 04-** Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691]au)//

//**<span class="Underline">Strategic withdrawal of U.S. forces …ascendancy into the global marketplace. </span>**//

//**Global nuclear war**//
//**Mead 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]</span>//

//So far, such half-hearted experiments … we may still have to fight.//

//**Turns the case – North Korea will take advantage of declining investment to start another war**//
//**Yonhap News 03** (1/8/03, “South Korea's Defence Ministry asserts reasons for alliance with US military” pg online @ lexisnexis//au)
<span class="Underline">Seoul, 8 January: The Defence … alliance with the United States.</span>


===**rok exercises cp**=== 
**Text:**
**The United States federal government should announce its intent to conduct military exercise Team Spirit in the Republic of South Korea. The United States federal government should offer to cancel Team Spirit, as well as other military exercises, in exchange for North Korean acts of demilitarization.**

**The counterplan is __sufficient__ to begin de-escalation and can be __reversed__ if North Korea doesn’t reciprocate**
**Chu, ‘06**(2-13, John S., MAJ, US Army, “ Military Exercises in Korea: A Provocation or a Deterrent to War?”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463339&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf )
The best way to avoid…U.S. military ready to take that risk? 

**Reduces tensions while still maintaining deterrence**
**Chu, ‘06**(2-13, John S., MAJ, US Army, “ Military Exercises in Korea: A Provocation or a Deterrent to War?”, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463339&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf )
Military Exercises: Operational Options and … relations with our South Korean ally.

----

==JAPAN NEG== 
===japan revoke cp=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span class="cite">Japan should revoke consent to US military presence and/or police presence in Japan, as authorized by the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security Between the United States of America and Japan, to the extent of the plan. We’ll clarify.</span>**</span>

**<span class="cite">The counterplan solves the case and avoids the net benefits – the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security Between the United States of America and Japan allows US military and police presence in Japan.</span>**
R. Chuck **Mason**, Congressional Research Service, June 18, <span class="cite">20</span>09, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/natsec/RL34531.pdf
<span class="underline0">The Treaty of Mutual Cooperation …</span> security treaty concluded in 1952.

==JAPAN BMD NEG== 
===bmd unpopular=== 
**Midterms Prove GOP loves BMD**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Drajem 11-3</span>**-2010 (Mark, “Business Looks to Republicans to Block Obama on Rules, Taxes”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-03/business-looks-to-republicans-to-block-obama-on-rules-taxes.html)
House Republicans have pledged ...followed by Raytheon’s $221.8 million.

===**china cp**=== 
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">The United States should:</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">-offer to negotiate a Code of Conduct for acceptable space practices with any other interested space faring nation. This should include the extension of a conditional offer to China that it will negotiate rules of the road for the use of space as long both China and the United States refuse to engage in practices that contribute to the militarization of space or cause space debris, including the launch of ASAT weapons, and offer reciprocal verification.</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">-authorize transparency measures to allow international monitors from any country that agrees to a Code of Conduct to allow verification of United States adherence to the Code of Conduct.</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">-offer participation to China in the International Space Station, future joint exploration missions</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">-repeal the International Traffic in Arms Regulations</span>**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">-</span> end arms sales and the approval of arms sales to Taiwan**

<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt;">**The counterplan solves and china will say yes**</span>
<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**Hitchens and Chen, 8/1**/08 - *President of the Center for Defense Information AND **executive at CENTRA Technology (Theresa and** David, “Forging a Sino-US ‘‘grand bargain’’ in space,” Space Policy <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cdi.org/pdfs/HitchensGrandBargain.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="margin: 12pt 0in 3pt; page-break-after: avoid;">Considering Chinese investment in its...Nixon's opening of China</span>



**This solves relations, china modernization, and war**
**Zhang, 09**
[Jiakun, Junion in Pol. Sci. – Duke U., Duke East Asia Nexus (An Online Journal covering East Asian Affairs, 12-29, “Disentanglement: A Case to End U.S. Arms Sales to Taiwan”http://www.dukenexus.org/?p=215]

The Taiwan strait is one...in North Korea and Iran.


==**TURKEY NEG**== 

----
===**turkey unpopular**=== 
**B.** Powerful defense contractors will oppose the plan
**Kevin** <span class="Heading2Char">Bogardus</span>**, staff writer, 3-3-20**<span class="Heading2Char">10</span>**, “Top defense contractors warn that genocide measure will hurt business,” The Hill, http://thehill.com/business-a-lobbying/84875-companies-warn-genocide-measure-will-hurt-business**

**<span class="underline">Executives for the nation’s top defense …</span>Berman <span class="underline">that expressed similar concerns</span> about the resolution.**


===turkey relations da=== 
A. Uniqueness: U.S./Turkey relations high despite flotilla and sanctions vote
Rozen, 10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(6/21/10, Lauren, The Politico, “</span>Obama's Turkey bind<span style="font-size: 8pt;">” http://dyn.politico.com/printstory.cfm?uuid=5C17F193-18FE-70B2-A816756177F83C1E)</span>**
**Turkey, meanwhile, is demanding …senior administration official told POLITICO.**

B. Plan kills relations – TNW’s strengthen the bond between the U.S. and Turkey
Kibaroglu 05 - **Assistant professor in the department of international relations at Bilkent University (December 2005, Mustafa, European Security: “Isn't it Time to Say Farewell to Nukes in Turkey?” Vol 14, No. 4, pg. 443-457, Informaworld)**
**However, the fundamental reason … analysts would prefer to term it)**

C. Relations solve Middle East stability, terrorism, oil conflicts, and free trade, Iraq, Russia Oil dependence
Menon and Wimbush, 07 **- Monroe J. Rathbone Professor of International Relations, Lehigh University Fellow, New America Foundation AND Director, Center for Future Security Strategies, Hudson Institute. (3/25/07, Rajan and S. Enders, Hudson Institute: “Is the United States Losing Turkey?” http://www.hudson.org/files/pdf_upload/Turkey%20PDF.pdf )**

**If Turkey, a key friend and ally,…Iraq and Turkey’s other neighbors.**

D. Central Asian oil conflicts leads to regional arms races that escalate into great power wars
Klare 2008 **(Michael, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College “The rise of the new energy world order,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/JD17Dj04.html)**

**A<span class="UNDERLINECharChar"> growing risk of conflict</span>….who control its global distribution.**

E. Terrorism Causes Extinction
Sid-Ahmed, political analyst 04
**(Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm)**

**<span class="DebateUnderline">What would be the consequences …we will all be losers</span>.**


===turkey revoke cp=== 
<span class="cite">COUNTERPLAN TEXT: The government of Turkey should revoke consent to US military presence and/or police presence in Turkey to the extent of the plan. We’ll clarify.</span>

<span class="cite">The counterplan solves the case and avoids the net benefits – prior refusals prove the military presence in Turkey requires government consent.</span>
**John** Egan**, Emory International Law Review, Volume 20, <span class="cite">20</span>**06**

Uncertainty over the status of …U.S.-led troops to neighboring Kyrgyzstan.14