[[toc]]
Cite Requests: [[mailto:Churchillcx@gmail.com|Churchillcx@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==﻿Inception - Broken @ SV== 

<span style="background: white; line-height: 170%;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 170%;">Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, Turkey.  </span></span>**</span>
<span style="mso-outline-level: 1;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">We Must Go Deeper… </span>**</span></span>

==Chaos Never Died - Broken @== 


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**Primordial uncarved block, sole worshipful monster, inert and spontaneous,**  </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**more ultraviolet than any mythology (like the shadows before Babylon),**  </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**the original undifferentiated oneness-of-being still radiates** </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline"> **serene as the black pennants of Assassins, random and perpetually intoxicated.**  </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**Chaos comes before all principles and entropy, it’s neither a god nor a maggot, its idiotic desires encompass and define every possible choreography,**  </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**all meaningless aethers and phlogistons:**  </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**its masks are crystallizations of its own facelessness, like clouds.**  </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**Everything in nature is perfectly real including consciousness,**  </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**there’s absolutely nothing to worry about.**  </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**Not only have the chains of the Law been broken, they never existed;**  </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**demons never guarded the stars, the Empire never got started, Eros never grew a beard. No, listen, what happened was this: they lied to you, sold you ideas of good and evil,** </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline"> **gave you distrust of your body and shame for your prophethood of chaos, invented words of distrust for your molecular love,** </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span class="Underline"> **mesmerized you with inattention, bored you with civilization and its usurious emotions.** </span></span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**The dominant ideology of the West is rooted in an ascetic understanding, every policy is another nihilistic attempt to stabilize the world and mold it into a frictionless pure world devoid of conflict and Evil. The Last Man’s society has become obsessively fixated on creating a static life of sameness and comfort, and shows this drive by always reactively seeking to eradicate the threat of difference. Out of fear the Evil lurking in the shadows, the Last Man elevates causality and calculability as a higher value, for these are key to eliminating integral features of our existence that are deemed unfavorable. The politics of this society are based in a hatred of our existence and culminate in suicidal nihilism.** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Owen and Ridley explain in 2000…** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">(David, assistant director of the Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton, Aaron, senior lecture and associate director ofthe Centre for Post-Analytic Philosophy at the University of Southampton, “Dramatis Personae,” in //Why Nietzsche Still?// ed. Alan Schrift, pp. 149-151) </span></span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The modern condition… //desirable" (BGE// 225). </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**The Last Men fail to accept that life is inherently chaotic and risky and thus try to eradicate the chaos that is an integral feature of our existence. Nihilism is a failure to accept life, and to give it a higher meaning in order to escape a meaningless reality.**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Diken explains in 2009…** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">(Bulent**,** Senior Lecturer at Lancaster University Department of Sociology, “Nihilism” p.15) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">In its origin…to moral ends </span>



<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 17px;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">America's asceticism spreads the life-denying logic of the alleviation of pain in the world. The pain we endure is the pain that makes us stronger. Attempts to abolish suffering only lead us down the middle-road of life, which is one of self loathing and affliction. Nietzsche tells us in 1886...</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[Friedrich, Anti-Christ and really smart German dude, 1886 [Friedrich, //Beyond Good and Evil//] </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Whether it is hedonism…is a naivete. </span>



<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">America’s new world order of security is based on a hatred of difference. Anything that is unknown is viewed as chaotic, and thus an obstruction to Western ideals. This separation results in a moralizing dichotomy of Good and Evil which results in violence towards those who are perceived as enemies of the Last Man’s transcendental values. </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-weight: normal;">Der Derian tells us in 1995…</span> </span>
<span class="Author-Date"> <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">James Der Derian, Professor of Political Science at Brown University, “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,” Chapter Two in On Security by Ronnie D. Lipschutz)</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The will to power…and evil experiences. </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**The security tactics utilized by the Last Man naturalize war as a permanent condition of existence through the attempt to always identify unknown others as a threat and suppress them. Within this understanding of being, difference is the imperfection of existence that is always sought to be eradicated. Nelson Scott explains in 2005…** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">(Scott, Professor of Political Science @ Univ. Virginia Tech, Paper presented at the annual meeting of the International Studies Association on 3/5/05, "Speed, Virtualization, Resistance: Terrorism as Total War” p.5-6) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">In an age of…period of time. </span>






<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**The wind shakes the barley, the wave disrupts the sand and we wreck policy debate. Affirm. Affirm Affirmation. The lighting strikes, the bird eats the worm and we make havoc on policy debate. Affirm. Affirm Affirmation. Affirm our dance, the one of the cosmos, the whole consort dancing together the ever changing forces of the galaxy and beyond the flow of life.** </span>




<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Who do we think we are to attempt to control the natural forces of the world? The world is nothing but a process of strong overcoming weak. This is the destiny of life, for the strong to destroy the weak. In spite of our attempts to control the world these forces happen. Disaster is not an unnatural process but is instead on of the many forces in life. Should we tell the wind not to blow, or the trees to not shed their leaves? Should we punish the Tsunami that rattles the beach or the bird who eats the worm? Negating portions of our existence results in a negation of the totality. Instead of attempting to dissuade destruction and death and preserve the world we must affirm life and welcome the ever changing forces that accompany it and join in the cosmic dance. Sineculpa explains in 1993…</span>**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">(Felix,<span style="color: black;"> //Against Ethics: Contributions to a Poetics of Obligation with Constant Reference to Deconstruction// by John d. Caputo, Chapter viii ‘Several Lyrica-Philosophical Discourses on Various Jew-Greek Parables and Paradigms with Constant Reference to Obligation’, ‘Discourse no. 2: The Lament of the Lamb’ p. 186-90)</span></span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Auschwitz is not evil…without a trace. </span>





<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: normal;">The modern age is characterized by the triumph of Socratic reason, which manifests itself in the Last Man's attempt to resolve the chaotic aspects of life and suffering. This will to truth requires the creation of an ideal world through which we try to mold our apparent world into, thus creating life as a negative deduction vis-a-vis our internalization of ressentiment. Saurette tells us in 1996...</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The philosophical foucnation…the Socratic resolution. </span>


**//<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Ressentiment</span>//****<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> holds all of life in contempt. All that one experiences causes one pain, nothing is good, nothing is beautiful. One no longer acts, no longer creates, but internalizes ones instinct for freedom. All of life becomes something to take revenge on. Deleuze explains in 1962…</span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Gilles, Nomadologist and professor of philosophy at the University of Lyon, “//Nietzsche and Philosophy//”) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">As a result…symbolic in principle. </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Total security is an impossible paradox. Disorder and insecurity are inevitable because we live in a dangerous world. Efforts to control this fear have resulted in the deaths of millions and the creation of WMDs. Affirmation of life through the cosmic dance allows us to overcome the nihilistically drive to create a perfect utopian world. This mentality shift is a prerequisite to restraining our foreign policy and overcoming the life negating practices that run rampant in the status quo.** **Der Derian tells us in 1998…** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"> (James, Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts, On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security). </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">No other concept…a fearful sameness </span>






==Exiles - Broken @ UT== 
<span class="Underline">**From Napoleon to T.E. Lawrence, the western interaction with the people of the desert has been a process of colonization through appeasement. Napoleon’s conquest into Egypt represented not a military campaign but instead a attempt to colonize the minds of the natives, an all out war of knowledge production that must sweep up the local native cultures and rid them of their practices and westernize them, the indigenous cultures are seen as outside of the system, on the periphery of global imperialist society. This form of thought is a justification for continued destruction of what is seen as on the periphery this thinking should be rejected it is through this form of thought that we survey the land from above, a codification of imperialist metaphysical thinking on the spatial plane, an enclosure of the land through use of grids and tables, this mapping out of the land props us the system of thought that justifies destruction of the periphery. William V. Spanos explains that**</span>
<span class="Underline">It is not the same with…knowledge and power.89</span>
<span class="Underline">**This relationship with the desert, as something that must be discovered, that must be brought under our tables of knowledge and made discernable from a western point of view is an embodiment of the new western imperialist view that has its roots in the metaphysical concept of the circle. This metaphysical thinking surveys the land, populations and people of the desert from above and through the panoptic eye discerns that which is in and that which is not within the circle. What falls outside of the circle, what lies on the periphery is the nothing, the culture and practices that are not seen as ordered or part of the western imperialist system, it is these discourses, on the periphery that strike fear into the heart of the center and cause the circle to be circumscribed in a violent order throughout the world that deems the people of the periphery, as expendable and disposable. Spanos tells us**</span>
<span class="Underline">The nothing--…of metaphysical principles.</span>
<span class="Underline">**Against this thinking of sedimentary thought Adam and I offer a counter affirmation, an un-thought resistance to American exceptionalism. This form of thinking is fluid and nomadic, it comes from the position of the periphery from outside the system of thought that is the centered circle. We affirm the periphery of the resolution, that which falls outside the circle of American exceptionalism, an affirmation of the indigenous cultures and lands that are subjugated to destruction and colonization by the American imperialist project.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Our nomadic thinking is not a break from politics, this fluid contingent thinking liberates us from the metaphysical system of thought dating back to Rome that enables the panoptic eye to survey from above and cement the imperialist drive. This new thinking, a rethinking of thinking in the interregnum of politics allows us to establish a new polis that moves away from the imperialist metaphysical drive as the impetus for action. These new spectral tactics allow us to fulfill the job of the critical intellectual who is in exile in this stage of the interregnum. This thinking fights back to the system of American exceptionalism that has been used to justify mass slaughtering, our new politics that says no to the American imperialist project unlike the current world order is one that is not bathed in the blood of innocent populations. Spanos explains this system of thinking by asserting that**</span>
<span class="Underline">It has not been…always rules.</span>






<span class="Underline">**This spectral encounter with the resolution, the affirmation of that which lies on the periphery is similar to the guerilla warfare of the Vietcong that brought the American military to its knees, this fluid nomadic thought fights back by not only answering the political question of Pax Americana but it creates a affiliation between the questioning of being and praxis. Our decision to become unanswerable to the system of American exceptionalism displays the flaws and exposes the weakness of the American imperialist project. These spectral tactics of the periphery are the death knell to the system of thought that allow violence and genocide in the name of the continuing world project that is the Pax Americana. Spanos once again informs us**</span>
<span class="Underline">In interpreting Heidegger’s…of western imperialism.</span>
<span class="Underline">**In the context of the resolution our affirmation of the periphery takes the form of an affirmation of the people exiled by American exceptionalism. The imperialist system has pushed people from their homes and created a nomadic migrant population, it is these people that we affirm, the exiled thinker. These nomads live in the interregnum just like the Vietcong they live in between empires in the Age of the New World picture. It is through our affirmation of these people unhoused by the imperialist system that we can encounter the nothing from a non western perspective. The politics of the exiled thinker are a new worldy politics that does not depend on the imperial actio proper to determine actions. Instead this politics, the politics of the nothing is polyvalent and is an open form of politics that is not founded on the metaphysical drive to control but instead a politics that fights back at the system of imperialism from the periphery. Spanos sheds light by explaining that**</span>
<span class="Underline">At the terminal…and projective imperatives.</span>
<span class="Underline">Footnotes:</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2K (William V., Prof @ Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg. 45-48 [AL])</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2K (William V., Prof @ Univ. of Binghamton, Heideggerian scholar & literary critic, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg 8-11 [AL])</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2K (William V., Professor @ Binghamton, Heideggerian Scholar, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg 205-206 [AL])</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2K (William V., Professor @ Binghamton University, Heideggerian Scholar and Literary Critic, //America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg. 196-198 [AL])</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2009 (William V., Professor @ Binghamton University, //The Legacy of Edward W. Said//, pg 137-139, quotes Edward Said’s //Culture and Imperialism// at length, [AL])</span></span>

==South Korea 2.0- Broken @ St. Marks== 
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">CONTENTION ONE: STATUS QUO </span>__**

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span style="color: black;">The U.S. has no intention of withdrawing its military presence in South Korea. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**<span style="color: black;">Daniel ‘10</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">(Lisa, American Forces Press Service, ‘Obama Reaffirms Alliance With South Korea,’ U.S. Department of Defense, June 3, 2010, file:/C:/Documents%20and%20Settings/LHS%20Debate/Desktop/Defense.gov%20News%20Article%20%20Obama%20Reaffirms%20Alliance%20With%20South%20Korea.htm, Date Accessed 6/23/10) </span> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">WASHINGTON, June 3, 2010...<span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; border: medium none; color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__years to <span style="border: medium none;">come.”</span>__</span></span></span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="CardsHighlight">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in South Korea.</span></span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="CardsHighlight">__**CONTENTION TWO: BIOWEAPONS**__ </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="CardsHighlight"> **U.S. presence makes Korean war inevitable-U.S. gets drawn in.** </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="CardsHighlight"> **Bandow, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Doug, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan, “5/3/10,Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]],)</span> </span></span>




<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Suspicions continue to mount...<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">so in 2010 is bizarre.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">﻿</span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="CardsHighlight">﻿</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="CardsHighlight">﻿</span></span>


**Conventional weaknesses will force North Korea to attack with bioweapons. ICG 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (International Crisis Group, NGO, works to prevent conflict worldwide, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” 6/18/09[[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], ) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">This report examines...__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">attacks or incidents. </span>__</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**North Korean bioweapon use would spread globally within six weeks. Levy 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” 6-8-07, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">,, This card has been date modified as to distinguish the specific 9/11 event) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Immediately following 9-11[2001]</span>...<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">developed within days. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Independently, bioweapons cause extinction.**</span>
<span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Singer</span>**</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">200</span><span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">1</span>**</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Clifford E., professor of nuclear engineering and director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana – Champaign, “Will mankind survive the millennium?” Bulletin of the program in Arms Control Disarmament, and International Security, 13:1, Swords and Ploughshares, </span>[[http://acdis.illinois.edu/assets/docs/312/WillMankindSurvivetheMillennium.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span></span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">There are</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">, however...<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">this is achieved.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**CBW use triggers U.S. nuclear retaliation** **and undermines NPT credibility.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"> **Potter 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William Potter, Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS), author or editor of seventeen books, including Nuclear Power and Nonproliferation, Dismantling the Cold War, and the Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism. serves on the Nonproliferation Panel of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences Committee on International Security and Arms Control, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and served for five years on the UN Secretary-General’s Advisory Board on Disarmament Matters, member of the International Advisory Board of The Center for Policy Studies in Russia, advisor to the delegation of Kyrgyzstan at the 1995 NPT Review and Extension Conference and the 1997, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008, and 2009 sessions of the NPT Preparatory Committee, as well as at the 2000 and 2005 NPT Review Conferences, Winter 2010, In Search of the Nuclear Taboo: Past, Present, and Future, [[@http://cns.miis.edu/other/potter_william_100115_IFRI_pp31.pdf|cns.miis.edu/other/potter_william_100115_IFRI_pp31.pdf]])</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"> <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">In the case of</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 9pt;"> ...<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">creates a commitment”.36</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> ﻿</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">﻿ **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">CBW use triggers US nuclear retaliation—North Korea is an exception to negative security assurances.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span style="color: black;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Kim 10</span>**</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">(Hyun-Wook,Professor @ Institute of Foreign Affairs and National Security (IFANS), South Korea, PhD of political science at Brown University, researcher of U.S.-ROK relations, U.S. foreign policy, and U.S.-DPRK relations, “Nuclear Posture Review and its Implications on the Korean Peninsula, 5/1/5/2010)</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> The 2010 NPR...<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">on a peace regime.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> ﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> ﻿</span>









﻿ 






**__CONTENTION THREE: CHINA__**

<span class="underline">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">__Korea is key – U.S. presence there and continued Chinese intransigence risks superpower conflict__ </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Emmott, 10</span>** </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(Bill, Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist . The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,”5/31/10, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> <span class="underline">It is time to worry...really be war</span></span>






<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">In addition to</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> ...<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">__curtailed or terminated__</span></span>


**<span style="color: black;">Satellites are key to asteroid detection and deflection measures. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Hsu 9 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">(Jeremy, Popular Science, 8/12/09, “NASA’s Plan For Detecting Potentially Threatening Asteroids Is In Financial Jeopardy”, [[http://www.popsci.com/military-aviation-amp-space/article/2009-08/no-free-lunch-detecting-dangerous-space-rocks]]#)</span>



__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Satellites and space</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">...<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">to an asteroid</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="background: white none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">There’s a high risk that asteroids will hit the earth and the terminal impact is extinction—previous assumptions that the risk of being hit by a space rock is low are just plain wrong—and if we get hit it could literally end life on the planet. </span>**</span>
<span style="background: white none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Easterbrook 8 </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Gregg, lecturer, senior editor of The New Republic, “The Sky is Falling”, The Atlantic Magazine, June 2008, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/]])</span>** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">__These standard assumptions__ ... <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">a new name</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="background: white none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">**<span style="color: black;">Even small asteroids decimate the Ozone layer. </span>**</span>
<span style="background: white none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">**<span style="color: black;">Bekey 9 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">(Ivan, International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the THREAT TO EARTH From ASTEROIDS and COMETS”, [[http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf]])</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">The statistical frequency...</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Science Definition Team (SDT) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">﻿</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Ozone destruction guarantees extinction</span>**
<span style="color: black;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Earth & Society 98</span>**</span><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> (A Project out of the University of Michigan -- THE OZONE LAYER: IMPORTANT COMPONENTS OF OZONE EDUCATION – </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.umich.edu/%7Egs265/society/ozone.htm|http://www.umich.edu/~gs265/society/ozone.htm]]</span><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">)</span></span>

<span class="underline"> <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__The ozone layer is ...<span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">it, to exist.</span></span>__</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__<span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span></span>__</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Announcing our commitment to remove troops forces China and South Korea to denuclearize the peninsula. Left with the forced choice, China will makes concessions to the US to preserve security.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif';">Garfinkle 3</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Adam, Professor @ Univ of Pennsylvania and Editor of the National Interest, “Checking Kim”, January 27, 2003, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]]</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">The U.S. finds itself</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 7pt;"> ..<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">help them do so. </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">﻿</span>


﻿






<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__CONTENTION FOUR: REUNIFICATION__** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#_Toc273024625]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Troop withdrawal is key – its the necessary precondition to get China on board for Korean reunification and peaceful leadership transition.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Nguyen ‘9 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(Peter Van Nguyen is a freelance writer based in Sydney, Australia. His articles have been published in OpEdnews, Asia Times Online and Foreign Policy Journal, October 13 2009)</span> </span>

<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__The U__</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">nited <span class="CardsFont12pt">__S__</span>tates...<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">__and democratic government__</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">﻿</span>

﻿





[[#_Toc273024626]]<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">(Takayuki, Japan Ground Self-Defense Force Engineer, “Security of Japan and Korean Unification,” U.S. Army War College, March 15</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/ksil446.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">**__)__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">**__﻿__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__﻿The U.S. evaluates__...to prevent it</span>

﻿






<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**US-ROK Alliance crushes South Korean diplomacy – makes international coalition-building and Asian regionalism impossible.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Sik 6</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Cheong Woo, Representative – Civil Network for a Peaceful Korea, “ROK-U.S. Alliance: More Harm Than Good”, 4-4, [[http://english.ohmynews.com/articleview/article_view.asp?at_code=321054]])</span> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Fourthly</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">,</span> <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">__if South Korea__</span> </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">... __<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">stamp for Washington</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">. </span>**__ </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Regionalism solves organized crime.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **Ikenberry 9** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Dr John G., the Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University in the Department of Politics and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, China’s Arrival: A Strategic Framework for a Global Relationship, September 2009) </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Overall, regionalism is</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> ...it both ways.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Organized crime makes your impacts inevitable.</span>** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">**UNODC, 2k9** (February, Preventing organized crime from spoiling peace, Commission on Narcotic Drugs, </span>[[http://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/frontpage/preventing%E2%80%93|http://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/frontpage/preventing–]]<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;"> organized– crime– from– spoiling– peace.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> __Look at almost__...people to send?</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>

﻿







<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Unchecked organized crime leads to Balkan instability.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Gerxhaliu 7 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(Selvete, PhD candidate in International Criminal Law & </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">legal advisor in the Office of the Prime Minister (Kosovo)<span style="color: black;">, “Human Security, Organized Crime and Terrorism Challenges in Kosovo’s Perspective” 2007, http://www.humsec.eu/cms/fileadmin/user_upload/humsec/Workin_Paper_Series/Working_Paper_Gerxhaliu.pdf)</span></span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Organised crime</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">is... <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">__in human beings.__</span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__﻿__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Balkan instability is the most likely scenario for war.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> **<span style="color: black;">Brzezinski 3 </span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Zbigniew, Prof. American Foreign Policy @ Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, “Hegemonic Quicksand”, The National Interest #74, Winter 2003.) </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">FOR THE next...<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">global hegemony at risk.</span></span>__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__﻿__</span>

﻿







<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Organized crime facilitates global illegal wildlife trade-collapses endangered species. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Delaney 9** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(<span style="color: black;">Joan, “Wildlife Smuggling Nets Big Bucks For Organized Crime”, The Epoch Times, 3/18/09, [[http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/13914/]])</span></span> </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Humming birds bound ... actually more valuable</span>__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">﻿</span>__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Endangered species collapse causes extinction</span>**<span style="color: black;">. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black;">**Kunich,** </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">2k</span>**<span style="color: black;">1</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">(</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">John Charles, Associate Professor of Law, Roger Williams University School of Law, ARTICLE: Preserving the Womb of the Unknown Species With Hotspots Legislation, 52 Hastings L.J. 1149, Lexis)</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">It is rather well known...the unkown species</span>




<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">﻿</span>**</span></span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__<span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span></span>__</span></span></span>





==**South Korea Affirmative- Broken @ Hill of Green**== 
**Read Rounds 1 & 6 @ Greenhill**

**Contention 1: The Status Quo**

**The U.S. has no intention of withdrawing its military presence in South Korea.**
**Daniel ‘10** (Lisa, American Forces Press Service, ‘Obama Reaffirms Alliance With South Korea,’ U.S. Department of Defense, June 3, 2010,) WASHINGTON, June 3, 2010 – South Korea has the full support of the United States as it confronts North Korea’s sinking of its naval ship Cheonan, and the 60-year U.S. alliance with … continue to go together in the months and years to come.” 



**Financial collapse makes maintaining hegemony impossible – US withdrawal is inevitable over the long-term. Bandow 10** (Doug Bandow, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire, “Bankrupt Empire” ,4/19/10 http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11701) The United States…. normal foreign policy. 


**The United States federal government should remove all of its military and police presence from South Korea.**


**Contention 2: Threat Construction**
**The Cold War mindset was a framework which justified U.S. creation of post war South Korean police state**
**Cumings 2005** (Bruce-, Professor of History @ U of Chi, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 209) 
American policy, of… East-West problem. 

**U.S. falsely asserts that North Korea is a threat, despite North Korea wanting rapprochement – It is entrapped on the Cold War mentality.**
**Kang 3** (David C., Sept. 2003, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3, Date accessed: 5/18) Most importantly, North…. and The Little Mermaid 

**These fears of irrationality, and securing ourselves against the North Korean Other structures all international relationships around those securitized politics. This violent relationship is fundamentally shaped by United States’ construction of North and South Korean identities. The plan is the building of bridges and not giving rise to boundaries.**
**Campbell, 98** (Campbell, Professor of international politics at the University of Newcastle, 1998 [David, Writing Security, p. 47-48) 
To talk of the endangered… acting as a bridge. (47-48) 


**This demonization and caricaturing of North Korea reflects and reify the marginalization of the Koreas, risking regional war and global holocaust.**
**Cumings 2005** (Bruce-, Professor of History @ U of Chi, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 487-88) 
The point is not… a global holocaust. 


**U.S. presence crushes independent South Korean foreign policy – exclusive control breeds a dependent psychology that spills over to all areas of sovereignty.**
**Harrison 2** (Selig S., Senior Scholar – Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and Director of the Asia Program – Center for International Policy, Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement, p. 165-166) 
THE "OP CON" ISSUE 
In the U.S. view…… South Korean general 


**Even if false, South Korea is perceived as dependent – makes foreign policy leadership impossible.**
**Bandow 98** (Doug, Senior Fellow – Cato Institute and Robert A. Taft Fellow – American Conservative Defense Alliance, “America’s Obsolete Korean Commitment”, Orbis, 42(4), Fall, Ebsco) 
Are there risks from American… role as well. 



**The perception of independence breaks away from the hegemonic control the United States has over South Korea. By removing our presence we allow South Korea to become a middle-power who can better help international and regional cooperation in areas like the environment, health care and promoting peace.**
**Robertson 8** (Jeffrey, Trade Research Specialist with the Foreign Affairs, Defence, and Trade Group – Australian Parliamentary Information and Research Service, “Middle Power: A New Strategy for Korea?”, Korea Herald, 3-28, Lexis) 
However, increasingly common definitions of what constitutes a… to achieve diplomatic aims. 


**Contention 3: Chinese Fill In**
**North Korean collapse inevitable - Succession complications would result in internal turmoil.**
**Stares and Wit 9** (Paul B. Stares and Joel S. Wit; Director of the center of preventative Action, Coordinator of U.S. Department of State; “Preparing for a Sudden change in North Korea; Pg. 4; January 2009; 
http://www.cfr.org/publication/18019/preparing_for_sudden_change_in_north_korea.html) 
However, other scenarios that bring… finally come to pass. 


**Removing U.S. troops is a prerequisite to genuine Chinese support for Korean reunification.**
**Van Nguyen, 9** (Peter, freelance writer based in Sydney, Australia. His articles have been published in OpEdnews, Asia Times Online and Foreign Policy Journal “U.S. bases are obstacle to Korean reunification,” UPI Asia, 10/13, http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/13/us_bases_are_obstacle_to_korean_reunification/1193/) 
The United States… and democratic government 


**Chinese involvement is key to preventing North Korean collapse and East Asian War.**
**Bandow 10** (Doug Bandow, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire, “Taming Pyongyang” ,5/3/10 
http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11739) 
Second, the United States… China in the North Korean issue. 


**Attempting unification without Chinese cooperation guarantees war.**
**Onozuka, 2006** (Takayuki, Japan Ground Self-Defense Force Engineer, “Security of Japan and Korean Unification,” U.S. Army War College, March 15, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/ksil446.pdf) 
The U.S. evaluates… ways to prevent it.38 


**Troop withdrawal is key – its the necessary precondition to get China on board for Korean reunification and peaceful leadership transition.**
**Nguyen ‘9** (Peter Van Nguyen is a freelance writer based in Sydney, Australia. His articles have been published in OpEdnews, Asia Times Online and Foreign Policy Journal, October 13 2009) 
The United States and… and democratic government 




**Announcing our commitment to remove troops forces China and South Korea to denuclearize the peninsula. Left with the forced choice, China will makes concessions to the US to preserve security. This solves great power wars, US economic interests, and relations with every other Asian country.**
**Garfinkle, 3** (Adam, Professor @ Univ of Pennsylvania and Editor of the National Interest, “Checking Kim”, January 27, 2003, http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle) 
The U.S. finds itself in an unenviable… We can help them do so 




==**Affirmative Read Round 3 @ Greenhill- The Aff Everyone Expected From us**== 




<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">**The history of American imperialism is more than just**</span>
**Pax Americana it is Pax Metaphysika, an attempt to spread this technological understanding of being throughout the globe. This historical concept continues today in the age of the New World Order. After Vietnam the United States was on a mission to revise history in an attempt to complete the Occidental project which culminates in the leveling of being and the reduction of the human mind and community to a disposable reserve**.



<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Spanos 2K’** (</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">William V. Spanos, Professor at Binghamton University and Cotemporary literary critic and Heideggerian Scholar, “The Question of Philosophy and </span></span>
Poiesis in the Posthistorical Age <span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Thinking/Imagining the Shadow of Metaphysics”, Duke University Press, </span>boundary 2 27.1 (2000) 151-174)




<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">To reconstellate this epochal...**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman;">to disposable reserve. </span>__**</span>




<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Military strategies and techniques are employed in the name of the securitization of the ontology of the nation- state. We enter the role of the technological man as the maker and user of things and human beings. The instrumental reason and violence of War, and military strategies come to enframe our lives excluding other modes of Being in the world. </span>**</span>




<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Burke 7’</span>




<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney. </span><span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason, John Hopkins University Press, Project Muse)</span>




<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The epistemology of ...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">rule of the political.</span></span>





<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 5pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The resolution is not simply a matter of changing policies, and military strategies it is a question of how we understand our existence, and the relationship we have with the ontology’s of political existence. Furthermore, the destructive features of modernity do not stem from choices made by policy makers but from a calculative imperial understanding of being. </span>**</span>



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 5pt;">**Burke 7’** (<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason, John Hopkins University Press, Project Muse)</span></span>





<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">What I take from...<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">dysfunctional or chaotic. </span></span>





<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 5pt;">﻿</span>






<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.5in; margin-top: 5pt;">﻿ </span>



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Thus when faced with the resolution Adam and I affirm a form of politics that embraces an understanding of our relation to American Military strategy as a technology and its relation to Being, its historical origins and constructs in the efficiency paradigm and offer a critique of dominant forms of political ontology in the status quo.**</span>





<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**We affirm a form of body politics that come before pragmatic, institutional solutions. The 1AC is an act of embracement towards an ontological politics of openness that criticizes the productivity of being. The 1AC methodology fractures the totalizing and universal views of history for a more fluid, and contingent understanding of the ways military occupations affect individual bodies.**</span>







<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 13.4pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 12pt;">**The age of the neoconservative revolution beginning with the war on** **terror, the patriot act, and the invasion and preemptive strikes on “rogue states” is the culmination of the technological understanding of**</span>
**Pax Americana. //This revolution is not just a discursive one but a historical, worldly revolution requiring that we go beyond politics as the site of resistance and perceive the act of thinking ontologically as the lynch pin to the disintegration of the calculative sociopolitical agent that reduces all beings to expendable.//**


<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">//**<span style="color: black;">Spanos 8</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(William V. Professor at Binghamton University and Cotemporary literary critic and Heideggerian Scholar "Global American: The Devastation of Language Under the Dictatorship of the Public Realm." symploke 16.1-2 (2008): 171-214. Project MUSE. 1 Jun. 2010)</span>//</span>



<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">//As oppositional intellectuals ... <span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman;">the dominant culture. </span>//</span>



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">//<span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">This ontologically ordained mission into the world’s wilderness justifies mass slaughtering of entire cultures and populations, in the never ending quest of Manifest Destiny.</span>**</span>//</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">//<span class="cite">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Spanos 3 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(William V</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;"> Prof. of English and Comparative Literature @ SUNY Binghamton, “A Rumor of War: 9/11 and the Forgetting of the Vietnam War,” boundary 2, Volume 30, Number 3)</span></span>//</span>



<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">//<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">This <span class="underline">**__extraordinarily reductive__** ... <span style="font-family: 'Times','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">only one example. </span></span></span></span>//</span>




<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">//**<span style="font-family: Times;">Understanding the existential and historical gripping of technological enframing allows us to open a clearing to change our relationship with technology and our understanding of being. This clearing allows us to see that there are other ways of viewing world. </span>**//</span>



<span style="display: block; font-family: Times; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">//**Dreyfus 2006** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Hubert, Professor of philosophy at UC Berkeley, “Heidegger on the connection between Nihilism, Art, Technology and Politics,” available online at http://socrates.berkeley.edu/%7Ehdreyfus/pdf/HdgerOnArtTechPoli.pdf) </span>//</span>


<span style="display: block; font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">//For us to be ... **__by it__**. (DOT 55, G 26)//</span>








=//Negative//= 

==//Specific Rounds//== 

===//Hill of Green//=== 
//**Rd 2 vs. Chicago Lab:**//
//**T- Presence=Bases**//
//**'The' PIC**//
//**Climate Bill Politics**//
//**Util**//
//**Case- Cap, Solvency Takeouts**//

//**Rd 4 vs. Westwood:**//
//**Heidegger**//
//**Case- Defense to Every Advantage**//

//**Rd 5 vs. Dallas Jesuit:**//
//**Climate Bill Politics**//
//**Util (on the Tix flow)**//
//**'The' PIC**//
//**T- Presense=Bases**//
//**Case-**//
//**Threat Con- Realism, Discourse Turns, Prolif Good, NK Defense**//
//**Patriarchy- Solvency Takeouts**//



===//Memorial of Houston//=== 
//**Rd 2 vs. Katy Taylor HS:**//
//**T- Presence=Troops**//
//**Consult Nato CP**//
//**Rider DA**//
//**Centering K**//
//**USFG Plan Flaw**//
//**Case- Solvency, Biopolitics Turns**//

//**Rd 3 vs. Katy Taylor (unknown initials):**//
//**Rider DA**//
//**'Government' PIC**//
//**Case- Heg Bad, Democracy Bad**//

//**Rd 5 vs. Dulles HK**//
//**Enframing Bad (Heidegger)**//



===//St. Marks//=== 
//**Rd 2 vs. Harmony School of Advancement:**//
//**Rider DA**//
//**Kan Consult DA**//
//**T-USFG**//
//**Consult NATO**//
//**Case- Guam Turns, Disaster Relief Turns**//

//**Rd 4 vs, GBS:**//
//**Consult NATO**//
//**Plan Flaw- lowercase f and g**//
//**T- Presence=Bases**//
//**Capitalism**//
//**Case- Taliban Good, Al Qaeda Good, Pakistan Stability Defense, Terrorism Defense**//

//**Rd 5 vs. Meadows:**//
//**Consult Kan DA**//
//**Rider DA**//
//**'The' PIC**//
//**Biopolitics**//
//**Plan Flaw- f and g**//
//**Case- No East Asian War, Economic Stability Bad, Holocaust Trivilaization**//


===//**Texas University**//=== 
//<span class="Underline">**Rd 2 vs. Round Rock:**</span>//

//<span class="Underline">**The Wound**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Consult Kan DA**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**T-Substantial**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Case- Whale Malthus (2NR)**</span>//







//<span class="Underline">**Rd 3 vs. Heritage Hall KH:**</span>//

//<span class="Underline">**Centering K**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Consult Nato (w/ Cohesion DA)-DA was 2NR**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Turkish Prolif DA**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**T- Presence =Bases**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Case- Selfish Politics**</span>//



//<span class="Underline">**Rd 5 vs. Pinecrest MR:**</span>//

//<span class="Underline">**Occidental Metaphysics (2NR)**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**“Its” PIC**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**T- Presence=Bases**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Case- Econ Impact Turn (CAFOs), Pan, Russia War Good**</span>//



//<span class="Underline">**Octos vs. Pinecrest BZ:**</span>//

//<span class="Underline">**T- Troops**</span>//
//<span class="Underline">**The Wound (2NR)**</span>//


==<span class="Underline">//**UT RR**//</span>== 

== == 
//<span class="Underline">**Rd 1 vs. Hendrickson DS:** </span>//

//<span class="Underline">**The Wound** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Revise COIN Counterplan (2NR)** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**T- Presence=Bases** </span>//


//<span class="Underline">**Rd 3 vs. Mercedes MV:** </span>//

//<span class="Underline">**“It’s” PIC** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Walker Kritik** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**T- Ownership** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Case- TNWs Good (2NR), Fear of Nukes Good** </span>//



//<span class="Underline">**Rd 5 vs. Dulles HK:** </span>//

//<span class="Underline">**Seeds of Imperialism (2NR)** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Case- Agriculture Bad** </span>//


//<span class="Underline">**Rd 6 vs. Little Rock Central PP:** </span>//

//<span class="Underline">**The Wound** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Revise COIN Counterplan (2NR)** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**T- Presence=Bases** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**Case- Nuke Terror Defense, Overstretch Defense** </span>//

==//The Wound//== 
//<span class="Underline">**The 21st century, the age of the world picture, the global age of terror, we have many names for our time but we are now living in the interregnum. The global new world order is cemented by the hegemonic control of America. This post cold war era is a culmination of centuries of thinking and has manifested itself in the American exceptionalist drive. This new world order with America as the flag bearer represents a culmination and execution of the metaphysical thinking of the enlightenment that codifies the imperialist logos in a calculative mode of thought that represents itself in the errant planning and systematic elimination of populations in the name of Pax Americana. This phase of peace aided and abetted by the enlightenment modes of thought has culminated in the Pax Metaphysica that reduces all human beings to expendable and justifies the colonization of population in the name of the new imperial world order. Our job as intellectuals is not to stand idly by, it is our job as exiles in the interregnum to say no to American exceptionalism. William V. Spanos explains that** </span>//

//<span class="Underline">What I have…tasks not impossible </span>//

//<span class="Underline">**During Vietnam the American public and the intellectuals of the world stood up and called the system out, they said the American intervention was wrong. To remedy this criticism and threat to the imperialist system, to heal the wound of Vietnam the government choose to withdraw the troops and reform the system. Similarly the affirmative finds a problem with the American military presence in. However, their call to withdraw troops does not end the system of American exceptionalism, instead through the reform of withdraw it makes the imperialist system more benign, it makes the system unquestionable, as done in Kosovo, Somalia, the first gulf war and countless other times the reform of the affirmative serves only to insulate and support the imperialist system of American exceptionalism that is used to justify destruction of the periphery physically and ontologically. Spanos elaborates that** </span>//

//<span class="Underline">In the wake…the Pax Americana </span>//


//<span class="Underline">**Just as in Rome and Britain the imperialist empire sustains itself through being in constant flux with its military forces. The withdrawal of troops serves only to strengthen the military might of the imperialist power. This withdrawal on face seems like an end to the system of colonization but in truth serves to make the system of imperialism more benign only grease the wheels that turn the tanks of Tiananmen Square, and feed the marauding armies that conquered Carthage and now conquer Afghanistan. The non use of the military forces is only a containment to ensure that the military is in top shape to violently lash out when necessary for the imperialist power to maintain the hegemony of the circle and violently exclude the periphery. Spanos tells us that** </span>//


//<span class="Underline">What needs to…intervention in Vietnam. </span>//













//**Thus we look away and dismiss the 1AC. We must say no to all forms of American exceptionalism and fight back against the imperialist system. We must think outside the circle, a thinking that is fluid and nomadic, that comes from the periphery, from the exiled thinker, the nomad who lives in the interregnum and fulfills the obligation to bring the system to its knees. <span class="Underline">This new thinking, a rethinking of thinking in the interregnum of politics allows us to establish a new polis that moves away from the imperialist metaphysical drive as the impetus for action. These new spectral tactics allow us to fulfill the job of the critical intellectual who is in exile in this stage of the interregnum. This thinking fights back to the system of American exceptionalism that has been used to justify mass slaughtering, our new politics that says no to the American imperialist project unlike the current world order is one that is not bathed in the blood of innocent populations. Spanos explains this system of thinking by asserting that </span>**//

//<span class="Underline">It has not…always rules. </span>//

//<span class="Underline">**This spectral encounter with the American exceptionalism, this thinking of the exiled thinker that lies on the periphery is similar to the guerilla warfare of the Vietcong that brought the American military to its knees, this fluid nomadic thought fights back by not only answering the political question of Pax Americana but it creates a affiliation between the questioning of being and praxis. Our decision to become unanswerable to the system of American exceptionalism displays the flaws and exposes the weakness of the American imperialist project. These spectral tactics of the periphery are the death knell to the system of thought that allow violence and genocide in the name of the continuing world project that is the Pax Americana. Spanos once again informs us that** </span>//

//<span class="Underline">In interpreting Heidegger’s…of Western Imperialism. </span>//



//<span class="Underline">Footnotes: </span>//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2K (William V., Professor @ Binghamton, Heideggerian Scholar, America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire, pg. 191-193 [AL]) </span></span>//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2K (William V., professor @ Binghamton University, </span></span>//America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg 143-144 [AL])//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2K (William V., professor @ Binghamton University, originator of the intellectual trifecta, </span></span>//America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg 121-122 [AL])//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2K (William V., Professor @ Binghamton, Heideggerian Scholar, </span></span>//America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg 205-206 [AL])//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Spanos 2K (William V., Professor @ Binghamton University, Heideggerian Scholar and Literary Critic, </span></span>//America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire//, pg. 196-198 [AL]) 
==Whale Malthus (so you should snag these for sure - faraz)== 
**<span style="color: black;">Only minke whales get killed in Japanese waters</span>**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Coakley 9</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Emily, “Japan Prepares for Next Round of Whale Research, Hunting Off Coast”, Finding Dulcinea, 4-22,</span>__<span style="color: blue;">http://www.findingdulcinea.com/news/environment/2009/april/Japan-Prepares-for-Next-Round-of-Whale-Research--Hunting-off-Coast.html</span>__<span style="color: black;">) </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**A Japanese fleet…AFP reported** </span>


**<span style="color: black;">Reducing minke populations is key to overall biodiversity</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Misaki 96</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">(Shigeko, Counsellor for International Relations – The Institute of Cetacean Research, “Responsible Management of Renewable Resources: Case for Whaling”, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://luna.pos.to/whale/icr_21_misa.html]]</span><span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">) </span></span>

<span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The absolute quantity…would be impaired. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="color: black;">If it’s more than minke – whale Malthus – solves extinction</span>** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Kawakami 94</span>** </span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Rin’itsu, Prof of Faculty of Law, Kyoto U, http://luna.pos.to/whale/jwa_v11_kawa.html </span>

<span class="Underline">**First let me…be deplorable indeed.** </span>

=='The' PIC== 
**Remove 'The' before United States federal government**

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman;">Definite Articles like “the” are often used in front of a country’s name. This action forces the identity of the country to the center of the reader’s and writers’ shared universe. These phrases prop up statehood and the homeland –empowering nationalism. </span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Billig 1995 </span>**(Michael, Prof. of Social Sciences @ Univ. of Loughborough. “Banal Nationalism” p. 107-109)

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The definite article can be used…as the morality of national duty and honour.</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">The notion of nationalism creates state based violence and conflict. History proves that this banal nationalism is ideologically built into our social understanding. The use of “the” in plantext codifies into law inevitable and justified violence-Gulf war proves.</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Billig 1995</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> (Michael, Prof. of Social Sciences @ Univ. of Loughborough. “Banal Nationalism” p. 1-4)</span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> All societies that maintain armies…to be fighting for rightful nationhood. </span>