=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
neg cites: [[mailto:choi.holden@gmail.com|choi.holden@gmail.com]]

A lot of the neg cites are turning out really weird when I post them, so I'll try to fix them as soon as possible.
==South Korea Affirmative== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan Text: the United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military forces in South Korea.</span>
=== === 
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North Korean War Advantage</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The squo is primed for conflict—Multiple Reasons</span>**
**First is North Korean belligerence**
**The Cheonan sinking was just the first in a wave of efforts by the north to raise tensions – more provocations are coming**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klingner</span></span>, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">5-20</span></span>-2010
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">As if the Cheonan attack was not bad enough</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Seoul ... </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">up to</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Seoul’s hosting of </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">the G-20 summit in <span style="background: lime;">November</span></span></span>

**Second – Hardliners**
**The sub incident proves that hardliners are in the driver’s seat of North Korea’s power transition – this crisis uniquely risks nuclear conflict – hardliners cannot be deterred**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chung</span></span>, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">6-1</span></span>-2010
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Sharply rising military tensions following the sinking of a ... </span></span><span style="font-size: 10px; line-height: 9px;">South believed was responsible for the torpedo attack on the Cheonan</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third—South Korean Aggression </span>**
**U.S. military presence and training in South Korea is heightens tensions and emboldens the ROK**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC 6/24</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span class="CardsHighlight"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The fact that the U</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">nited <span class="CardsHighlight">S</span>tates <span class="CardsHighlight">is actively inciting the South Korean puppets ... </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">United States following the end of the Cold <span class="CardsFont12pt">War</span>, to get any worse</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The status quo is </span>fundamentally different than the past – the chance of a major miscalculation and global escalation is possible now in five different ways**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sanger, 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Like a street gang showing off its power to run amok in a well-heeled neighborhood, __the North__</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">; it could spread to the Middle East or Southeast Asia, or wherever else North Korea found its customers</span>__**</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1 is Nuclear War—</span>**
**U.S. involvement means conflict is guaranteed to go nuclear**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Horween 9</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="background: lime;">If North Korea decides to … </span></span>the Philippines in World War II.</span>

**Even limited nuclear war with North Korea has massive consequences – causes massive climate change, starvation, refugee flows, ozone depletion and wrecks the global economy**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hamel-Green 2010</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">The consequences of failing to … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">consideration from the international community.</span></span>

**Ozone depletion causes complete extinction**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Greenpeace</span></span>, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1995</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">When chemists</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sherwood Rowland and … </span><span class="underline"><span style="background: lime;">continuation of life on earth.</span></span></span>

**Econ decline causes extinction**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kerpen 2008</span></span>,
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">It’s important that we avoid</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> … </span><span class="underline"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 10.0pt;">on </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">a</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="background: lime; font-size: 10.0pt;">n even greater scale</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global Agriculture Collapse Results in World War 3</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calvin ‘98</span>
<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">The population-crash scenario is … warming from the North Atlantic.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2 is Chemical-Biological Warfare—</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conventional weaknesses will force North Korea to resort to CBW use – either deliberate, accidental or unauthorized</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">ICG, 09</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This report examines North Korea’s chemical and biological weapons capabilities in the context of its military doctrine and national objectives. It is based on open source literature, interviews and unpublished documents made available to Crisis Group. Companion reports published simultaneously assess the DPRK’s nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities and what the policy response of the international community should be to its recent nuclear and missile testing.[1]... </span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">unauthorised WMD attacks </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">or incidents</span>__**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">North Korean bioweapon use would </span>spread globally within six weeks – greater risk that nuclear weapons**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Levy, 07</span>
__Intelligence analysts and academics report …__ <span style="font-size: 5pt;">can be developed within days.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Impact is extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ochs 02</span>
__<span style="background: lime;">Of all the weapons of … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the highest of all crimes. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We access the best internals—</span>**
**U.S. withdrawal is a game-changer – the non-aggression signal would de-escalate current tensions and jumpstart denuclearization**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lai</span></span>, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama should see that </span><span class="underline">… peaceful means, not</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> through </span><span class="underline">war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

**The plan empowers North Korean reformers sidelines hardliner influence – its key to peace on the Peninsula**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Izumikawa 2004</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt; margin-left: 0in;">Among the few Westerners who … -US sentiment in the South.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And a </span>unilateral security guarantee is a necessary pre-requisite – North Korea won’t accept a grand bargain without it**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gravel 9</span>
President <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Obama can regain his </span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 13pt;">… </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">World’s 21st Century’s economic jewels.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Hegemony Advantage</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We’ll isolate 2 Internal Links—First is Force Flexibility</span>**
**Ground forces are overstretched – naval and airpower is enough to solve East Asian stability**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mount 5-21</span></span>-2010
<span class="underline"><span style="background: lime;">The U.S. Army is stretched thin </span>… ground forces are</span>,” he said.

**Keeping U.S. ground forces in Korea prevents quick redeployment readiness**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pollack and Reiss 2004</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, and most important, U.S. planners … by more powerful neighboring states.</span>

**Withdrawal allows for global deployment flexibility**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hwang 2009</span></span>
<span class="underline">The U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="underline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates said Monday … for the region and </span><span class="underline"><span style="background: lime;">globally</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">”</span>

**This flexibility is key to U.S. global power projection and overall hegemony**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro 2002</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">Buchan presents many conceivable solutions … </span><span class="underline">flexible deployment and employment plans</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second Is Korean Acquiescence—</span>**
**Current U.S. containment strategy creates the perception of U.S. acquiescence to North Korean prolif**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snyder 2010</span></span>
The Task Force finds that … <span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">, which remains an important U.S. objective.</span>

**That makes collapse of regional security alliances inevitable and erodes US global leadership**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snyder 2010</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the strong words, </span><span class="underline"><span style="background: lime;">the … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">more difficult, if not impossible.</span>

**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan is uniquely different—Only after withdrawal can we effectively engage North Korea </span></span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kim. 09</span></span>
__North Korea__ Wednesday __rejected a proposal <span class="underline">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">West considers top atomic threats.</span>

**Theoretical arguments about inevitable decline create a self-fulfilling prophecy- even if collapse is inevitable, we should attempt to sustain it**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schweller '1</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">First, although hegemonic decline may … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">1945, in accordance with Ikenberry's prescription.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impact is Kagan—Enough Said</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan, 2007</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">Finally, there is the United … </span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">will provide an easier path</span>__</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Heg Bad isn’t an argument. Obama makes intervention inevitable </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">America must "lead the world … </span>__<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">is a left-liberal foreign policy? </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative to heg is net worst. The transition entails global chaos and conflict – there is no such thing as multipolarity. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 05</span>
<span class="HeaderChar">__History__ </span><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">is a record of change, a … global stabilizer will also endure.</span></span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Countries bandwagon US leadership and would reject any move towards Offshore Balancing </span>**
<span class="HeaderChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taliaferro 07</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Second, many of<span class="HeaderChar"> __<span style="background: yellow;">Layne’s arguments … </span>dilemma in those three regions.__</span></span>
===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regionalism Advantage</span>=== 
**<span class="CharacterStyle1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a </span>clear sign of U.S. withdrawal can motivate sustainable regional security cooperation</span>**
<span class="CharacterStyle1"><span style="font-size: 12pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Carpenter and Bandow 4</span></span>
<span class="Underline">The security treaties with the … **central and west-central Pacific.**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. alliance relationships in East Asia are unsustainable – Asian powers should develop a regional security strategy that </span>does not rely on the U.S. – solves WMD terrorism, tame China, prevents Sino-Japan conflict, Japan imperialism, solve resource conflicts and stop major power domination**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Francis, 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 4.0pt;">At the conclusion of the … </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">a strong, independent East Asian Union.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Espiritu, 06</span>
<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">Can the U.S. live with the … the Eagle to head home.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, South Korea must lead the shift to East Asian regionalism</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 8</span>
<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">__<span style="background: lime;">North Korea’s nuclear threat is … </span>sustained effort by regional organizations.__</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">But current dependence on the US only hurts ROK diplomatic efforts</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Snyder 2009</span>
__<span style="background: lime;">South Korea</span>__, as the world’s … __that of the United States.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strengthening the East Asian regional security architecture key to solve terrorism, territorial disputes, disease, environmental degradation, and maritime security</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nanto, 08</span>
__<span style="background: lime;">A stronger **regional security organization**</span> …__ <span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">will exist in the future.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Territorial disputes draw in great powers—Causes World War 3</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Waldron, 97</span>
__MAKING THESE flash-points all … Japan--or the__ __U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Environmental protection’s key to avoid extinction</span>**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Powell 2K</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt; margin-left: 0in;">The Earth is getting warmer, … exactly the tipping point lies.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Uunchecked terrorism causes nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speice, 2006</span>
<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">The potential consequences of the … </span>__the use of nuclear weapons.__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No perception disads—South Korean regional activism wouldn’t alarm China, the US, or Japan – it’s the best way to promote regional security </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young 8</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And we solve North Korea</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Espiritu, 06</span>
__Should the U.S. withdraw__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> completely from … </span>__<span style="background: lime;">up their military and arsenal</span>__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">· Seek support from China and Russia to unify a nuclear free Korea </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to their Participatory Defense … power balance in the region. </span>


===<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Offshore Balancing Advantage</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The unipolar structure will inevitably collapse – globalization is causing power shifts toward others and harmful American policies are causing economic and military overstretch </span>**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">Haass 08</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, don’t let them fool you into believing the unipolar system is inevitable. There are multiple reasons the US can abandon its strategy of intervention.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gholz, Press and Sapolsky 97</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Espiritu, 06</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independently—withdrawal from Korea would create the perception of offshore balancing</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Espiritu, 06</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ceding to the rise of China in East Asia allows for a global offshore balancing strategy and creates a smooth transition to both offshore balancing and a peaceful Chinese rise. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow, 09</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-Sino war results in extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Straits Times 2k</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The current unipolar structure is not only unsustainable but will inevitably result in great power war. Withdrawal is key to usher in a peaceful transition to offshore balancing.</span>**
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">Layne 06</span>

**And, heg good isn’t an argument—Offshore balancing is key to truly access the benefits of hegemony**
<span class="HeaderChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwarz and Layne 02</span></span>

**Independently, transitioning to offshore balancing solves American sustainability**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 2006</span>
==East Asia Affirmative (Most Recent)== 

The United States federal government should end its military presence in South Korea and Japan.
===US-Sino war=== 
3 internal links:
First is sphere of influence:
As China rises, it will need a regional sphere of influence
Ivan Eland, 1/18/06 - Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in National Security from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. (The Independent Institute. “Is future conflict with China unavoidable?” http://www.independent.org/pdf/working_papers/63_china.pdf )
If rapid economic growth does … military strength (short-term power).

Current military posture intrudes on China's sphere of influence. Although China won't be militarily expansionist, this risks nuclear war. History goes our way.
Ivan Eland, 4/11/05 - Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in National Security from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. (The Independent Institute. “Coexisting with a rising China?”. http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1494 )
Unfortunately, in international relations, talk … war or even a nuclear conflagration.

Second is contradictory interests
Withdrawal redefines American “vital interests,” preventing conflict with China
Ivan Eland, 1/18/06 - Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in National Security from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute. (The Independent Institute. “Is future conflict with China unavoidable?” http://www.independent.org/pdf/working_papers/63_china.pdf )
U.S. “vital interests” are currently … imperial bushﬁre war in Iraq.

Absent that reevaluation, future mismanagement causes war
Stephen Walt, 9/15/10 (Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University. [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/15/how_long_can_beijing_and_washington_handle_their_relationship]])
But here's why I'm less … a long time into the future.

Third is arms race:
Presence is perceived as containment and causes a Chinese military buildup and allied aggression
Bandow, 08 – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812]], JMP)
Still, does an American presence … today’s outmoded twentieth-century alliance.

Miltary buildup causes a cycle of distrust, killing relations and causing miscalc
Klare, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, 06 [Michael, “Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]
Accompanying all these diplomatic initiatives … no victors from such a conflagration.

We solve: The plan causes offshore balancing in East Asia—outweighs alt causes
Doug Bandow, 6/3/06 (former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20060603db.html )
[[#paragrah]]But America is not alone. … responsibility for their own defense.

China war escalates and goes nuclear
Hunkovic, 09 – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]
A war between China, Taiwan … be considered in this study.

Even a limited war would cause extinction
Takai ‘9, Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, [[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]] [gender paraphrased])
What would happen if China … heeding by nuclear hard-liners.

First strike fails
Bin, Professor of the Institute of International Studies, Tsinghua Universit, 06 [Li, “Paper Tiger with
Whitened Teeth”, http://www.wsichina.org/cs4_5.pdf]
Rather than exploring why China … risks to the United States.

Trade won't solve
Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf)
Engagement is a problematic strategy, however, … confront the United States tomorrow.

Withdrawal shifts the burden to allies and long range capabilities which mangage China more effectively but prevent war
Christopher Layne, Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, PhD in poli sci. Jan 2008. (Current History. “China's Challenge to US Hegemony”. [[http://www.morris.umn.edu/~joos/us/Readings/2_US%20in%20NE%20Asia/China%20challenge%20to%20US%20hegemony.pdf]])
Similarly, at an October 2007 conference … by engaging in security competitions.

China's rise inevitable—growth rate differentials and structural pressures
Christopher Layne, Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute and Mary Julia and George R. Jordan Professorship of International Affairs at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service . 2004. (The Asia-Pacific: A Region in Transition. http://www.apcss.org/Publications/Edited%20Volumes/RegionalFinal%20chapters/Chapter5Layne.pdf. p 56)
Growth rate differentials, however, are … be exploited by the hegemon.

Deterrence fails—easier for China to defend then for the US to contain
Bandow, 09 – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP)
So Washington should exhibit humility … other's economic and geopolitical ambitions.

===Regionalism=== 
Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a clear signal of US withdrawal can motivate sustainable regional security cooperation
Carpenter and Bandow 4 - * Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR
The security treaties with the United States and the U.S. troop presence allow the diversion of financial ... with a reduced military presence based in Guam and other U.S. territories in the central and west-central Pacific.

Bilateral alliances trade off with a more multilateral structure. Empirically proven.
Deepak Nair, Research Associate at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. 2008. (Contemporary Southeast Asia Vol. 31, No. 1. pg 124
[[http://www.accessmylibrary.com/article-1G1-198805524/regionalism-asia-pacificeast-asia.html|http://www.accessmylibrary.com/article-1G1-198805524/regionalism-asia-paci]]ficeast-asia.html. ) The second related factor that … deepened with Singapore and India." ... As highlighted in this article, … future'" is not entirely tenable.'^

Security structure solves nuclear war
Jonathan S. Landay (staff) March 10 2000 “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts:, Knight Ridder Washington Bureau, l/n WASHINGTON _ The 3,700-mile arc that … , according to the Commerce Department.

Independently, presence causes a moral backlash and provocations that crush alliances and cause war
Johnson ‘01 [Chalmers, Ph. D Political Science UC Berkley, Professor of Emeritus University of San Diego, Former CIA Consultant, “Time to Bring the Troops Home”, 5/14, [[http://www.thenation.com/article/time-bring-troops-home]]] In lieu of concrete security … satellites did in Eastern Europe.

Presence means it escalates—security guarantees fail

Layne 06 Associate Professor at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University [Christopher “The Peace of Illusions” (p. 169-171)] Rather than being instruments of … to prevent them from happening. The plan is a prerequisite to sustainable relations between

South Korea and Japan—that's key to stability and cooperation.
Bandow, 08 - Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books (Doug, “Time to Tell Irresponsible Allies No Thanks,” 9/20, http://original.antiwar.com/doug-bandow/2008/09/19/time-to-tell-irresponsible-allies-no-thanks/) Six decades have passed since … responsible leadership in East Asia.
===**Offshore Balancing**=== 
<span class="Underline">The unipolar structure will inevitably collapse – globalization is causing power shifts toward others and harmful American policies are causing economic and military overstretch </span>
<span class="Underline">Haass 08 </span>

<span class="Underline">And, don’t let them fool you into believing the unipolar system is inevitable. There are multiple reasons the US can abandon its strategy of intervention. </span>
<span class="Underline">Gholz, Press and Sapolsky 97 </span>

<span class="Underline">The current unipolar structure is not only unsustainable but will inevitably result in great power war. Withdrawal is key to usher in a peaceful transition to offshore balancing. </span>
<span class="Underline">Layne 06 </span>

<span class="Underline">And, heg good isn’t an argument—Offshore balancing is key to truly access the benefits of hegemony </span>
Schwarz and Layne 02
=**Negative**= 

==Topicality== 
===1NC T Combat Troops=== 
A. Violation - Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence
Thomason, 2**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf</span>**
**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Our working definition of US ...</span> __an evolving security operation or contingency should call for them__.</span>**


1. Limits—both presence and crises response are highly complex—this means they must be addressed seperately
Dismukes, 95**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – analyst with the Center for Naval Analyses (Bradford, “The U.S. Military Presence Abroad”, Strategic Review, Spring, p. 55)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Logically, forward presence has become the most important strategic task of U.S. ... they share the political and financial costs of U.S. presence.</span>**
===**1NC T Ground Forces**=== 
Interpretation: “Military” means land forces AMERICAN HERITAGE DICTIONARY 2009 (“Military,” http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/military)
4. Of or relating to land forces.

Third, they undermine education on the topic—this evidence also supports our ground and limits claims
TILL 2006 (Geoffrey, Professor of Maritime Studies in the Defence Studies Department of King's College, The development of British naval thinking: essays in memory of Bryan McLaren Ranft, p. 130)
Accordingly, the aim of professional military education was to … In effect, the worry was that ‘joint’ could all too easily become ‘insufficiently naval’.
===**1NC T Substantial - Counternarcotics**=== 
A) Police presence is the deployment of US police
Dobbins et al 3 – RAND Corporation (James, “America's Role in Nation-Building: From Germany to Iraq”,http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1753/MR1753.ch9.pdf INTERNATIONAL POLICE PRESENCE OVER TIME A more recent innovation has been… . Figure 9.3 shows numbers of foreign police per thou-sand inhabitants over time for the four cases that featured significant deployments of international police.

2. A substantial reduction in presence requires at least a 50% decrease
Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92 (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis) TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS TO BE CLOSED SEC. 101. CLEANUP SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN BASES ON SUPERFUND NATIONAL PRIORITIES LIST. (a) CLEANUP SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN BASES ON NATIONAL PRIORITIES LIST.-(1) With respect to each military … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">considered to have occurred if more than 50 percent of the personnel</span> assigned to the installation, including employees and members of the Armed Forces, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">have been reassigned</span> and moved to another installation.

B. Violation – you are small
1. We have a combined civilian and military police presence of about 1500
Wilkes 8 ([[http://www.dod.mil/dodgc/olc/docs/testWilkes080618.pdf]] Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Central Asia Bobby Wilkes Testimony to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee of National Security and Foreign Affairs “Oversight of U.S. Efforts to Train and Equip Police and Enhance the Justice System in Afghanistan” June 18, 2008) CSTC-A, in conjunction with the State Department, mentors police at all … unable to cover the majority of ANP units and organizations.

2. The number expanded to 700 civilian police - they are not tasked to counternarcotics
State Department 5/3/10 - http://www.state.gov/p/inl/rls/fs/141486.htm The Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL), under the direction of and with financial support from Combined Security Transition Command – Afghanistan (CSTC-A), operates a civilian police training and advising program for the Afghan National Police (ANP) and Ministry of Interior. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">There are approximately 700 U.S. civilian police advisors at multiple facilities throughout Afghanistan</span> who work directly with the … each year from the Defense Department to the State Department under a Memorandum of Agreement between the agencies. $399m was transferred to State in 2007 and $391m was transferred in 2008. $261 million was transferred in 2009.

<span style="tab-stops: center 347.6pt;">3. Your aff is very small: 81 agents at best total in status quo </span>
LA times 7/20/9 [[http://articles.latimes.com/2009/jul/20/world/fg-dea-afghan20]] In response, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the number of DEA agents and analysts in Afghanistan will rise from 13 </span>to 68 by September, and to <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">81</span> in 2010.

<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**AT Overlimiting**</span>
Second, in the context of political science, studies prove that depth is key to education. Jonathon Parker, senior lecturer in political science at Keele University, National Teaching Fellow of the UK Higher Education Academy . 1/15/2010. ( PS: Political Science & Politics (2010), 43:121-125 Cambridge University Press. “Undergraduate Research-Methods Training in Political Science: A Comparative Perspective.” [[http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&aid=7060280]]) Unlike other disciplines in the … type of higher education system.
==NMS CP== 
<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**1NC**</span>
**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Text :</span>**
The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a national military strategy, and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that
<Plan>
is necessary to achieve that national security goals of the United States. We’ll clarify.

Solves – NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan
Meinhart 8 (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
CONCLUSION The National Military Strategy … and ambiguous global security environment.

NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning
Riley 94 (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)
Should not the National Military … 20 years from now begins today.

Plan decimates CMR – military decisions hinge on process – the Joint Chiefs must be active leaders to avoid the perception of getting steam-rolled
Baker 8 (Anni P., Assistant Professor of History – Wheaton College, Life in the Armed Forces: (Not) Just Another Job)
THE INFLUENCE OF THE MILITARY … , strategy, and other military considerations.

Civil military relations are vital to Gates succeeding in his military transformation agenda
Desch, 07 - Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security Decision-Making at Texas A&M's George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service, (Michael, Foreign Affairs, “Bush and the Generals”, May/June, http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20070501faessay86309/michael-c-desch/bush-and-the-generals.html)
The new secretary of defense … that proper civil-military balance.

That outweighs the aff
Bennett ‘8 (John, Defense News, “JFCOM Releases Study on Future Threats”, 12-4, http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=3850158)
The study predicts future U.S. forces' … security alone," said the report.

===**Solvency**=== 
NMS solves the case –
1. Builds broad support – Congress and the DOD will get on board for reductions because the NMS is a keystone document that communicates the security priorities of the U.S. and facilitates consultation and integrated advice between branches – that’s Meinhart

2. Shapes policy – the NMS will filter into operational planning, resource allocation, and defense plans, guaranteeing enforcement in future military policy – that’s Riley Both are particularly true for military reductions
Gargan 99 (John J., Professor of Political Science – Kent State University, “To Defend A Nation: An Overview of Downsizing and the U.S. Military”, M@n@gement, 2(3), p. 229-230)
CHANGING THE STRATEGIC PLANNING FRAMEWORK Decisions on military downsizing relate to, … other resources during downsizing years. None of their indicts of the current NMS apply.

The CP reforms the process, issuing a strategic concept to guide implementation. This massively boosts efficiency and ensures enforcement of the plan.
Lovelace and Young 95 (Douglas and Thomas-Durell, Douglas is the Director of the Strategic Studies Institute, Thomas- Durell is a research professor at the Strategic Studies Institute at US Army War College, “Strategic Plans, Joint Doctrine and Antipodean Insights”, Strategic Studies Institute, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/summary.cfm?q=328 //mp)//
//Over the past decade, jointness … joint doctrine to the NMS.//

Deficits cut both ways – if the CP doesn’t solve, the Aff doesn’t either
Feaver 3 (Peter D., Professor of Political Science – Duke, Armed Servants: Agency, Oversight, and Civil-Military Relations, p. 68) In practical terms, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">military shirking</span> … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">policy will never be implemented</span>. The impact is huge. Even though it isn’t legally binding, the NMS shapes policy and causes enactment of the plan. Slocombe 4 (Walter B., Former Undersecretary of Defense – United States and Secretary of the Board – Atlantic Council, “Does Strategy Matter?”, 11-16, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/symposia/joint2004/slocombepaper.htm) However, as an exercise in … strategy they embody – certainly “matter.”
===**AT Perm Do the CP**=== 
It’s an effect. It’s not fiated Here’s evidence.
Claudle 9 – Texas A&M University (Sharon L., “National Security Strategies: Security from What, for Whom, and by What Means,” Journal of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, 6(1) Article 22, Galileo, )
T hird, it is unclear who … run counter to departmental independence.
===AT Perm Do Both=== 
Sequencing matters. The Perm risks political conflict and gridlock.
Riley 94 (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)
The Process in a Democratic Society: The Reality In the democratic government of … consonance with national military objectives.

Process is more important than policy
Meinhart 5 (Richard M., Associate Professor of Defense and Joint Processes – U.S. Army War College, “The Pentagon and the Presidency: Civil-Military Relations from FDR to George W. Bush”, Parameters, 35(4), Winter, p. 139)
If one wants to gain … or adversely affect the military.

The perm cuts off dialogue midstream.
Cook and Ulrich 6 – Martin L. Cook, U.S. Air Force Academy, and Marybeth P. Ulrich, Department of National Security and Strategy, U.S. Army War College, November 2006, “US Civil Military Relations since 9/11: Issues in Ethics and Policy Development,” Journal of Military Ethics, Vol. 5, No. 3, p. 161-182 Professional guidelines for military professionals … interaction with the political leadership. Civil-military disagreement is inevitable.

Building a remedy into the process at the onset is key to prevent the undermining of civilian authority
Sewall 9 (Sewall, Co-director of the Project on Civil-Military Relations at the Harvard Kennedy School, 1/29/09, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/editorial_opinion/oped/articles/2009/01/29/the_civil_military_challenge/?page=1)
Transparent and consistent decision-making … protect and defend the Constitution.
===Politics Link=== 
Plan causes backlash – independent and prior military advice is key to generate political support
Hooker 4 – Ph.D. from the Univ. of Virginia in IR, member of the CFR, served in the Office of the CJCS (Richard D. Jr., Winter, “Soldiers of the State: Reconsidering American Civil-Military Relations,” Parameters, 4(15), Galileo, )
To be sure, the military … into the civil-military relationship.
==CIL PIC== 
===1NC=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CIL doesn’t bind others </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Samuel Estreicher 3 (Professor of Law, NYU, and Co-director of the Institute for Judicial Administration, “Exploring the Limits of International Law: Rethinking the Binding Effect of Customary International Law”, Virginia Journal of International Law Association, Fall, 44. 5] </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">For all of these reasons, mechanisms of interstate cooperation are needed. … the likely costs would seem to predominate over the likely benefits. </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ruling on CIL kills heg </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">David Rivkin and Lee Casey 2k (former DOJ director, formerDeputy Director, Office of Policy Development, U.S. Department of Justice, Casy, Office of Legal Counsel, U.S. DOJ, “The Rocky Shoals of International Law”, Winter 2000, http://nationalinterest.org/article/the-rocky-shoals-of-international-law-523) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">ALTHOUGH international law has always been a consideration for … prosecuting individual soldiers, officers and elected officials in the chain of command.</span>

Kagan 7
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kagan 7 [Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, End of Dreams, Return of History, Policy Review http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10%29] </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a primary goal of American …or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>
==**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Whaling Condition CP</span>**== 
===1NC=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Text: The United States federal government should condition [plan action] on Japanese refusal to accept the International Whaling Commission ban on commercial whaling and inform the government of Japan of this. </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading2Char">Failure to stop Japanese whaling will collapse the IWC – happens in the short term</span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Donald R. </span><span class="Heading2Char">Rothwell</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, I. Law Prof @ ANU, 1-8</span><span class="Heading2Char">-2010</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, “High seas clash inevitable,” The Age, </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">ln</span> The third response was to … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Japan maintains its</span> hard-line <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">position</span> on its right <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">to continue scientific whaling</span>. </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading2Char">IWC collapse causes whale extinctions – no controls on commercial whaling </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading2Char">Whale Watch Westcork, 2009,</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> “Commercial Whaling,” </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; font-size: 7pt; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.whalewatchwestcork.com/commercial-whaling.html]]</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Recent <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">meetings between the</span> member countries of … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">and lack of controls resulting in so many species being bought to the verge of extinction</span>. </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Heading2Char">IWC collapses causes extinction – global oxygen balance</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Robbins </span><span class="Heading2Char">Barstow,</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> PhD, Volunteer Executive Director, Cetacean Society International, Autumn </span><span class="Heading2Char">1989</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, SONAR, The Magazine of the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society, “Beyond Whale Species Survival,”</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; cursor: pointer; font-size: 7pt; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.highnorth.no/Library/Movements/General/be-wh-s2.htm]]</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">My own </span>rationale for<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> asking </span>the IWC to<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> decide to </span>adopt a management ... in earth's atmosphere <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">produced from </span>the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">plankton </span>that is <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">kept in check</span>most critically <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">by whale consumption</span>.</span>
==**Gender IR**== 
===1NC=== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Aff’s use of traditional security discourse creates gendered representations of situations within international relations. These representations of masculine realist state actors inevitably result in violence and war due to their inherent gendered nature and opposition to non-western values. The alternative is to problematize the affs gendered discourse of security. Only by destroying the neutrality of their discourse can true change be enacted.</span>
<span style="font-size: 120%;">Shepherd 07 [Laura J. Dept of Political Science and International Studies, U of Birmingham (UK), “'Victims, Perpetrators and Actors' Revisited:1 Exploring the Potential for a Feminist Reconceptualisation of (International) Security and (Gender) Violence” British Journal of Politics and International Relations, V9 I2, May] </span>
<span style="font-size: 120%;">I offer a feminist reconceptualisation of (… , and I am in excellent company.</span>
===AT Framework=== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The rhetoric the judge endorses as a policy analyst is important – reject the view point of a policyMAKER. The master’s tools are mousetraps that leave us spinning our wheels</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Bensimon and Marshall 2003 (Estela, professor at the University of Southern California, Catherine, professor at the University of North Carolina, “Like It Or Not Feminist Critical Policy Analysis Matters”, The Journal of Higher Education, Volume 74, Issue 3, Project Muse, HC) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Earlier we said that the … the hegemonic center to listen. </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Framing of Gender can be a powerful cultural and political influence. These methodologies become public discourse and utilized to improve future policies. The alternative is a prior question- without it the 1AC becomes another failure of the system. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Beland 2009 (Daniel, Professor of Public Policy at the University of Saskatchewan, “Gender, Ideational Analysis, and Social Policy”, Social Politics: International Studies in Gender, State and Society, Volume 16, Issue 4, Project Muse, HC)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">As far as the political … promote—or oppose—policy change.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The Alternative is a discursive approach which investigates the social dynamics which feed domination and resistance. Having these methodologies within politics is critical to human agency- allowing us to challenge the entrenched system.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Bleiker, 00 (Roland, Ph.D. visiting research and teaching affiliations at Harvard, Cambridge, Humboldt, Tampere, Yonsei and Pusan National University as well as the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology and the Institute of Social Studies in The Hague, Popular Dissent , Human Agency and Global Politics, Cambridge University Press) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Discourse is the most central … </span>a clear 'commitment to causal analysis'. 4 </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ignorance of gender makes their methodology suspect- only by investigating how reality is constituted can we develop a basis for action and avoid error replication </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Peterson and Runyan 99 [professor of … inadequate, and potentially disastrous, guides.</span>
==**Lacan Kritik**== 
===**1NC**=== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Attempts to order the world produces utopian visions – embracing doubt creates radical democracy and avoids violence.</span>
Yannis Stavrakakis, 1999. Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex. Lacan and the Political, p. 96-8.
The fear behind all these … within a radically transformed ethical framework.

Security ontology causes war– states protect themselves by violently managing the world
Burke, 07 (Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, 2 [Anthony, Johns Hopkins University Press, Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason, page @ http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/theory_and_event/v010/10.2burke.html] The epistemology of violence I describe … global rule of the political.

Efforts to control inevitable disorder and insecurity will produce violence and extinction. The alternative is to affirm difference, accept doubt and admit that everything is dangerous – breaks us out of the death cycle.
James Der Derian, 1998. Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts. On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security.
No other concept in international … identities calcifying into a fearful sameness.
===2NC Permutation=== 
Inclusion of utopia into the alternative is disastrous
Yannis Stavrakakis, 1999. Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex. Lacan and the Political, p. 116-7.
The main point here is … the use of a psychoanalytic vocabulary.
===2NC Threats Real=== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">The fact that threats to life exist does not justify the disciplinary apparatus of security, which handles threats by producing and dehumanizing entire populations.</span>
Burke 2007 lecturer at Adelaide University School of History and Politics, “What security makes possible,” Working Paper 2007 p.11-12
Even if threats are credible … individual nor international security exist’:
==Security K== 
===Alt Cards=== 
Vote NOT AFF as a specific intellectual to mark the crude assumptions of the 1AC’s discourse – key challenge regimes of truth and power Owen ’94
David Owen 1994 (Maturity and Modernity, pp 209-210)
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The ‘universal’ intellectual</span>, on Foucault’s account, is that figure who … as to
the capacity of Foucault’s work to perform this critical activity through an entrenchment of the ethics of creativity as the structures of recognition through which we recognize our autonomy in the contestation of determinations of who we are.

We are not the starving artist creating in oblivion, our being-in-the-world is also being-with-others and self transformation doesn’t exist in a vacuum.
Owen ’94 David Owen, Professor of Social and Political Philosophy @ University of Southampton, 1994 (Maturity and Modernity, pp 204-205) In locating the practique de … within the reigning identities. (Coles 1991:105)
===Links=== 
====Generic==== 
Attempts to create security cause violence
Yannis Stavrakakis, 1999. Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex. Lacan and the Political, p. 96-8.
The fear behind all these … within a radically transformed ethical framework.

The 1AC attempts to reduce as many effects to as few causes as possible through the assignation of essential identities to agents. This metaphysics is useless for policy and causes conflict
Srnicek ’10 Nick, , PhD Student at London School of Economics and Political Science “Conflict Networks: Collapsing the Global into the Local” Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, Issue 2 (2010) http://www.criticalglobalisation.com/Issue2/JCGS_Issue2_Conflict_Networks.html)
This leads us to the … global interacts with the local.
====Realism==== 
Security is a social construct. Claims of war create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our provocations. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs affirmative advantage claims.
David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)
Approaches that deconstruct theoretical … conditions of existence are generated18.
====Environment==== 
Subjectifying nature leads to self hatred as we internalize the guilt and blame ourselves for the chaos it holds—leads to extinction
Baudrillard 2k7 (Jean, professor of philosophy of culture and media criticism at the European Graduate School, “Darwin’s Artificial Ancestors and the Terroristic Dream of the Transparency of the Good” International Journal of Baudrillard Studies, vol. 4 No. 2)
All this has been brought … 'scientific' vision of the species.
====Terrorism==== 
Their representations of terrorism lend ideological support to mass violence
John Collins, Assistant Professor of Global Studies at St. Lawrence University, and Ross Glover, Visiting Professor of Sociology at St. Lawrence University, 2002 (Collateral Language, p. 6-7)
The Real Effects of Language … the physical effects of violence.
====Afghan Stability==== 
The affirmative represents Afghanistan as an uncivilized state that must be brought into the neoliberal order and crowds out alternative epistemologies. These representations are the root caues of their harms.
Crowe 7 (L. A. Crowe, Researcher, York Centre for International and Security Studies, York University, 2007, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’” [[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]])
These elements of oppositional binaries … a means of control and coercion.92
====Asian Regionalism==== 
Asian regionalism presumes a Pan-Asian identity and absolute distinctions from the US – turns solvency
Baogang He 2004 (chair of International Studies at Deakin University, “East Asian Ideas of Regionalism,” Australian Journal of International Affairs, Volume 58, Issue 1, pg. 121-122)
Asian culture is problematic for … the late 1990s (Rozman 1998a).
===AT Realism=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Security is a social construct. Claims of war create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our provocations. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs affirmative advantage claims. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Approaches that deconstruct theoretical … conditions of existence are generated18.</span>

Empirically Fails
Edward A Kolodziej, Research Professor Emeritus of Political Science, is the Director of the Center for Global Studies at the University of Illinois, PhD U Chicago Political Science, Renaissance in Security Studies? Caveat Lector!, International Studies Quarterly 1992 (36)
Perhaps a concrete example may help to suggest the damaging … , as Hobbes, The Federalist, and Axelrod suggest, for consensual, not coercive, solutions to political conflict, war, and security.

Realist’s conception of rationality is incomplete- destroys its explanatory power and makes realism unrealistic
dr. A. (Annette) Freyberg Inan Associate Professor, the Director of the Master's Program in Political Science, Univ of Amsterdam, PhD in Political Science at the University of Georgia, USA. Her MA degrees in Political Science and English were obtained at the University of Stuttgart in her native Germany. Editorial Board Member: International Studies Review, Globalizations Journal, Advisory Board Member: Millennium, What Moves Man: The Realist Theory of International Relations and Its Judgment of Human Nature 2004
That the assumption of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">self-interested rationality does not fully characterize </span>… and a lesser degree of abstraction. In so doing, they render the theory considerably more realistic. (110-112)
===AT Schmidt=== 
Schmidt's theory destroys political agency by ignoring nonviolent solutions to political conflict. Being is indistinguishable from war.
Burke 2007 Anthony, Senior Lecturer in Politics and International Relations at UNSW, Sydney. “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason”
This essay forms part of an Australian Research Council funded project on the politics and ethics of the use of force. The Johns Hopkins University Press. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Schmitt</span> claim<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">s</span> that his <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">theory … </span>of such ontologies in action.
===AT Empirics=== 
Their predictions and empirical claims are flawed
Inan 4 (Annette Freyburg, Associate Professor, Director of the Master's Program in Political Science, Univ of Amsterdam, PhD, Poli Sci, "What Moves Man: The Realist Theory of International Relations and Its Judgment of Human Nature")
How is it that the bias in the assumptions underlying realist theory can …as well as political possibilities and actual behavior.”7 (119-120)
===AT Threats Real=== 
the fact that threats to life exist does not justify the disciplinary apparatus of security, here’s comparative evidence that dehumanization outweighs
Burke 2007 lecturer at Adelaide University School of History and Politics, “What security makes possible,” Working Paper 2007 p.11-12
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Even if threats are credible … </span>individual nor international security exist’:
==Orientalism== 
===1NC=== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The role of the scholar should be to interrogate systems of knowledge- the 1AC representations are tainted by orientalist modes of thought which renders them suspect. Interrogation of representations outweighs policy making</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Anand 07—Reader, IR, U Westminster. PhD, politics, Bristol (Dibyesh, Western Colonial Representations of the Other, http://staff.bath.ac.uk/ecsda/DAnandNPSArticleMar07.pdf) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Within the context of European … natives and idealization of some. </span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Rhetorical engagement with the Middle East is locked within an orientalist narrative of dualistic identity construction. The aff's epistemological intervention is founded on assumptions that make domination inevitable. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Munif 2006 (PhD candidate, UMass-Amherst Department of Sociology, "Media is the continuation of War", MIT, E-Journal of Middle East Studies, Vol 6) </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Third, an understanding of the … the foundations of European modernity. Interrogation of representations is a prerequisite to reducing violence Chow 06 - PHD</span>
===AT Perm=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The permutation allows dominant paradigms to reproduce themselves </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">GERGES 1991 – MIDDLE EASTERN STUDIES PROF SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE THE STUDY OF MIDDLE EAST IR: A CRITIQUE, BRITISH JOURNAL OF ME STUDIES, VOL 18 NO 2 </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In an assessment of the … being allowed to represent itself. 7</span>
===AT Realism=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Realism fails in the ME- it has no explanatory power for the actions of Arab states </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Michael N. Barnett 98. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">But Realism has a difficult time addressing...the subject for a faulty instrument</span>
===AT Framework=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We link turn evertheiry bit of policy offense- critically engaging policy towards the Middle East is key </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Karawan, 03 director of the Middle East Center at the University of Utah, where he teaches international politics, 2003 (Ibrahim, “Time for an Audit”, Journal of Democracy 13.3, pg. 96-101 </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Today there is a clear need … to evade this key responsibility.</span>
==D&G== 
===1NC=== 
The status quo is paranoiac even in its attempt at counter culture. Status quo methodology confines experimentation to only processes with set goals in mind, destroying these movements from the beginning. We must instead abandon these final goals and embrace free thought.
Deleuze and Guattari 1972, Anti-Oedipus, 370-1
The codes and their signifiers , … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">it proceeds-art as "experimentation</span>.'

Focus on the state ignores the fascism hidden in the every day. Only a focus on the self and our relation towards repression can begin to account for the operations of desire – independent DA to your framework
Deleuze & Guattari, A Thousand Plateaus (1980. p214-5.)
Doubtless, fascism invented the concept of the totalitarian State, … molecules both personal and collective.

Language frameworks and philosophy based <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">on language leaves us trapped in language and preventing us from taking </span>action – this turns the case/K
Claire Colebrook 2002 (Understanding Deleuze) Page xxxv
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The problem of structuralism</span>, to … and orthodoxy of our concepts.
==China Containment Disad== 
===1NC=== 
US is stepping up its influence to contain China but presence is key
Mark Landler, diplomatic correspondent of The New York Times and Sewell Chan, Washington correspondent for The New York Times and writes about economic issues. 10/25/10. (“Taking Harder Stance Toward China, Obama Lines Up Allies”. New York Times. [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/26/world/asia/26china.html?partner=rss&emc=rss]] )
WASHINGTON — <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The Obama administration</span>, facing a … , deeper friends in the region.”

Withdrawal causes miscalc, china war and jacks credibility
Dr. Cheng 12-30-10 (Dean, Research Fellow in Chinese Political and Security Affairs in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, “Chinese Military Modernization: The Future Is Arriving Much Sooner Than Expected,” Heritage, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/12/Chinese-Military-Modernization-The-Future-Is-Arriving-Much-Sooner-Than-Expected)
The Growing Chinese Military A number … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">risk of miscalculation and conflict</span>.
===<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2NC Russia War</span>=== 
And, Chinese Nuclear Launch activates the Russian Early Warning System
Kristensen director of the Nuclear Information Project at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federation_of_American_Scientists|Federation of American Scientists]], 06 [“Report: Chinese Nuclear Forces and U.S. Nuclear War”, [[http://www.nukestrat.com/china/chinareport.htm]]]
In Chapter 2 we quoted a range for China’s DF-5A ICBM of at least 8,000 miles (13,000 km). … trajectories from China to the continental United States which do not overfly Russia would require a range exceeding 10,560 miles (17,000 km).

Accidental launch
Rosenberg, San Francisco Gate, 06 [Eric, “Experts warn of an accidental atomic war / Nuclear missile modified for conventional attack on Iran could set off alarm in Russia”, [[http://articles.sfgate.com/2006-10-06/news/17316809_1_nuclear-missiles-norwegian-scientific-rocket-ballistic]]]
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Russian military officers might misconstrue a</span> submarine-launched conventional … the radars and confirm whether missile launches are truly under way or are false alarms.

Only scenario for extinction
Bostrom, gannon award winner, prof at oxford, 02 [Nick Bostrom, Professor of philosophy at Oxford University, 2002, (http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)]
A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-… see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.
===AT Peaceful Rise=== 
China has been consistently aggressive—is empirically a threat
Charles R Smith, Has top secret US government security clearance, designs DOD wargames, runs the leading cyber security consulting firm in the US, is frequently called on by congress to testify about Chinese combat systems 3-14-02 [[http://www.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2002/3/14/133903.shtml]]
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">China is angry at the … </span>– that America is its No. 1 target.

Chinese regional aggression now.
Blumenthal 6/7 – resident fellow at American Enterprise institute (Dan, The Weekly Standard, AEI, “Losing Asia?.” http://www.aei.org/article/102121)
Even with a government in Taiwan … allies during Asia's 30-year peace.

China is aggressive and threatens now – wants Taiwan and Spratly.
Maginnis 5/20 -- retired Army lieutenant colonel, a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television and a senior strategist with the U.S. Army (Robert, Human Events, “China's High Seas Aggression.” http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=37081)
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">China’s aggressive actions on the … </span>growing regional and global interests.”

China is a threat – seeks primacy.
Blumenthal 6/7 – resident fellow at American Enterprise institute (Dan, The Weekly Standard, AEI, “Losing Asia?.” http://www.aei.org/article/102121)
This <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">decision was driven by a … </span>domination by any other power.

Past actions prove China is a threat
Chang, 08 (Gordon, has spoken at Columbia, Cornell, Princeton, Yale, and other universities and at The Brookings Institution, The Heritage Foundation, the Cato Institute, RAND, the American Enterprise Institute, the Council on Foreign Relations, and other institutions. He has given briefings at the National Intelligence Council, the Central Intelligence Agency, the State Department, and the Pentagon. “Examples of China’s Aggression” 11-24-08. [[http://www.opposingviews.com/arguments/examples-of-chinas-aggression]])
Is China a threat to the … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">our Navy transiting international waterways</span>.

Studies prove China is realist and aggressive, and the United States will inevitably attempt to contain it
Yuan-Kang Wang, Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and the School of Public Affairs and Administration at Western Michigan University, CNAPS Taiwan Fellow. July 2006. (THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION. [[http://www.brookings.edu/fp/cnaps/papers/wang2006.pdf]] )
Studies have shown that China … a stronger great power next door.
==Afghanistan Withdrawal Disad== 
===1NC=== 
The plan cedes Middle Asia to China, Russia, and Iran, collapsing hegemony and American containment efforts. It also causes regional instability including Afghan civil war and Pakistani support for terrorism.
Brooks, '10 (Webster, Senior Fellow at the Center for New Politics and Policy (CNPP) and Editor of Brooks Foreign Policy Review, the international affairs arm of CNPP. His articles on foreign policy have appeared in numerous newspapers and websites in the Middle East, Eurasia and in the United States. 2/22/10. “Obama's Grand Strategy in the Middle East & Central Asia”. http://www.lebanonwire.com/1002MLN/10022201WB.asp )
For the next two decades, … U.S. attempts to isolate hostile regimes.

Unchecked Russian or Chinese expansionism causes nuclear war and destroys global stability
Stephen J. Blank, strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago, March 2009. “RUSSIA AND ARMS CONTROL: ARE THERE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION?”
Proliferators or nuclear states like … neighbors or their own people.172
===2NC Internal Link=== 
History proves Afghanistan is enormously strategic—it's also key to oil access
International-issues.org, 6/18/10 – an organization dedicated to studying, researching and analysing trends and issues of an international nature (“The struggle for Eurasia”. [[http://www.international-issues.org/wp/?p=267|http://www.international-issues.org/wp/?]]
Afghanistan throughout history has been … fits into the Eurasian jigsaw.

U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan causes Russian and Chinese expansionism, kills US-Russian relations, undermines hegemony, and increases terrorism
Gordon M Hahn 5/21/2009 senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California; senior researcher, Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (CETIS), Akribis Group, California; and analyst/consultant. “U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism" [[http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf%20p.%208-9|http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9]] ZM
However, there is some space … only benefit the region’s jihadists.6
==Japan Prolif Disad== 
===1NC=== 
A. Credibility. Troops are the best guarantee that nuclear threats mean something.
Nye ‘9 (Joseph, Prof. IR – Harvard U., Korea Times, “Will US-Japan Alliance Survive”, 7-14, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/opinon/2009/07/137_48423.html)
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Japan </span>officially endorses the objective … of regional ballistic missile defense.

B. Reducing reliance on nuclear weapons triggers Japanese prolif --- this triggers a regional arms race and collapses the NPT.
Richard <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Halloran</span>, 5/24/200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">9</span>. Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years. “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html.
That anxiety has reinvigorated a debate … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">commitment to Japan's</span> nuclear <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">defense</span>.

C. Arms race in Asia causes global nuclear war
Stephen <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Cimbala</span>, March 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">8</span>. Professor of Political Science at Penn State University. “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia,” Comparative Strategy 27.2, p 113-132.
The spread of nuclear weapons … marginalization <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">of major interstate war</span>fare<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>
===2NC Impact Calc=== 
a. Magnitude --- proliferation in East Asia causes instability that triggers war between great powers --- this is the most likely place for escalation to global nuclear war.
Toshimaru Ogura and Ingyu Oh, April 1997. Professor of Marxist Economics at Toyama University and professor of political economy at Waikato University. “Nuclear Clouds Over the Korean Peninsula and Japan,” Monthly Review, Ebsco.
North Korea, South <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Korea, and … </span>to <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">escalate into a global conflagaration</span>.

Also --- Northeast Asia is the most likely location for great power nuclear war.
Morton H. Halperin, 7/9/1999. PhD International Relations @ Yale, Senior Fellow @ Center for American Progress and Senior Advisor to Open Society Institute. “The Nuclear Dimension of the U.S.-Japan Alliance,” http://www.nautilus.org/archives/library/security/papers/US-Japan-4.html.
If <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">conflict </span>is to occur <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">… </span>efforts to control nuclear proliferation.

c. Timeframe --- Japan can go nuclear in months.
Frank Barnaby, 5/14/2009. PhD Nuclear Physics, worked for the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, former Director of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, former Professor at the Free University, Amsterdam, and former Visiting Professor at the University of Minnesota. “Will Japan react to North Korea's missile and nuclear programmes?” Scitizen, http://scitizen.com/stories/future-energies/2009/05/Will-Japan-react-to-North-Korea-s-missile-and-nuclear-programmes/.
If Japan, at some future … an actual nuclear-weapon power.
===2NC Link=== 
Coming nuclear cuts magnify the link.
Nye ‘9 (Joseph, Prof. IR – Harvard U., CQ Transcriptions, DEL. ENI H. FALEOMAVAEGA HOLDS A HEARING ON JAPAN'S CHANGING ROLE, 6-25, L/N)
And, this raises the following … increase rather than decrease proliferation.

New government agrees.
Nye and Ogawa ‘9 (Joseph, Prof. IR – Harvard U., interviewed by Satoshi, Correspondent, Yomiuri Shimbun, “TRANSFER OF POWER; DPJ win ‘to boost soft power’”, 9-2, L/N) Q:
Some experts are concerned … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">forward presence of American troops</span>.

Symbolic action key to deterrence. Specifically with Japan.
Schoff ‘9 (James, Associate Dir. Asia-Pacific Studies – Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, “Realigning Priorities: The U.S.-Japan Alliance & the Future of Extended Deterrence”, March, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/RealignPriorities.pdf, p. xi-xii)
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Symbols have always been important … </span>has not been explored adequately.
===2NC Japan-Alliance=== 
Japan prolif destroys their soft power or chance of getting a Security Council seat.
Matake Kamiya, Winter 2003. Associate professor of international relations at the National Defense Academy of Japan. “Nuclear Japan: Oxymoron or Coming Soon?” Washington Quarterly 26.1, Ebsco.
Fourth, and again contrary to … and prestige in the world.

Japanese soft power is critical to maintain the US-Japan alliance --- prevents subservient relationship that causes anti-American backlash in Japan.
Takakazu Kuriyama, Fall 2000. Advisor to the Japanese minister of foreign affairs and a visiting professor at Waseda University. "Challenges for Japan's Foreign Policy Future," Japan Review of International Affairs, p.218.
In closing I would like to … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">for building an international order</span>.
==ROK Investment Disad== 
Plan guts investment in South Korea which collapses its economy Magnum 04- Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea (Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf] au)
Many Koreans ignore the fact … the capability of its forces.

South Korean economy is key to Asian democracy
NEWSWEEK, 10 (1/29/10, “Selling South Korea,” [[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html]]) Calum
In short, the South Korean … than, say, that of China."

Extinction
Diamond, 95 – Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm, KONTOPOULOS)
This hardly exhausts the lists … , accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness.

Independently, withdrawal will stop U.S. foothold in the Asian Pacific Market which will collapse the U.S. economy
Kinne 04- Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691]au) Strategic withdrawal of U.S. forces from … ascendancy into the global marketplace.

Global nuclear war
Mead 09 (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]
So far, such half-hearted … may still have to fight.

Turns the case – North Korea will take advantage of declining investment to start another war
Yonhap News 03 (1/8/03, “South Korea's Defence Ministry asserts reasons for alliance with US military” pg online @ lexisnexisau)
Seoul, 8 January: The Defence Ministry … alliance with the United States.
===**2NC Uniqueness**=== 
South Korean economy improving but still vulnerable
AFP 7/6 (7/6/10, “IMF raises South Korea growth forecast,” [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5htfyFtNWtKHP7VMZ3f7qKve1BjXA]] via GoogleNews)
SEOUL — The International Monetary Fund … would be welcome," it said.

ROK economy high now—trade and manufacturing
Chosun 7/6 (7/6/10, Chosun Ilbo, “Korean Economy Sees Faster-Than-Expected Recovery in First Half,” http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2010/07/05/2010070500901.html)
The Korean economy is showing … to building a more robust economy.
===**2NC Link**=== 
Our link is empirically true – … withdrawal will destroy investor confidence
AFP News 03 (3/27/03, “North Korea not a US target -- top South Korean presidential advisor” pg online @ lexisnexis//au)
Washington has not ruled out … Han river that bisects Seoul.
==ROK Relations Disad== 
U.S. will maintain a credible commitment to the ROK
CQ, 10 [3/25/10, Congressional Quarterly, “FISCAL 2011 BUDGET U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND, U.S. FORCES KOREA; COMMITTEE: HOUSE ARMED SERVICES,” Lexis]
The relocation of U.S. forces in … enhancing force protection for USFK.

Withdrawal will crush U.S.-South Korean relations
Dujarric, 04 – Visiting Scholar at the Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry (7/12/04, International Herald Tribune, “Japan's Security Needs U.S. Troops in S. Korea,” [[http://www.rieti.go.jp/en/papers/contribution/dujarric/02.html]], JMP)
Though it is possible that these moves will be reversed, as … forces will be less potent.

Turns the case – key to solve North Korean aggression and regional stability
Levin, 4 – Senior Analyst at the RAND Corporation, (Norman D, “Do the Ties Still Bind?: The US-ROK Security Relationship After 9/11,” [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2004/RAND_MG115.pdf]])
In short, security cooperation with … the core of a critical region.

Independently, U.S. ground forces key to … a credible nuclear guarantee for Seoul
Payne, et. al, 10 – Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]], JMP)
Forward deployment of forces, then, … essential to the nuclear guarantee.

Prevents South Korean prolif
Hughes, 2007 [Christopher W., PhD University of Sheffield, 1997, Reader/Associate Professor, University of Warwick. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan,” January, Asia Policy No 3, http://www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf]
South Korea’s history of considering … the reaffirmation of U.S. security guarantees.54

Escalates to global nuclear war
Cirincione, 2000 – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)
The blocks would fall quickest … use of a nuclear weapon since 1945.
===2NC Uniqueness=== 
Relations are stronger than ever – quotes ambassadors
Yonhap News, 6/23 – (6/23/10, Kim Deok-hyun, Yonhap News Agency, South Korea’s only news agency, “Alliance between S. Korea, U.S. 'stronger than ever': U.S. ambassador,” http://english. yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2010/06/23/6/0301000000AEN20100623006200315F.HTML) DH
The U.S. ambassador to Seoul on … , using South Korea's official name.

US military commitment to South Korea strong now.
Armacost, et. al., 10 (5/10, Michael H. Armacost, Distinguished Fellow at the Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center, former U.S. Ambassador to Japan and the Philippines; and former under secretary of state for political affairs, other members of the New Beginnings Policy Research Study Group, a joint venture of The Korea Society and Stanford University’s Shorenstein Center, “‘New Beginnings’ in the U.S.-ROK Alliance: Recommendations to the Obama Administration,” iis-db.stanford.edu/evnts/6219/New_Beginnings_FINAL_May_2010.pdf) DH
The Obama administration has engaged … alliance’s deterrent and defensive capabilities.

Relations high – support after the Cheonan incident proves.
Feulner, 10 (2/4/10, Edwin Feulner, PhD., President of the Heritage Foundation, “The Status of the U.S.-Korea Relationship in 2010,” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Lecture/The-Status-of-the-US-Korea-Relationship-in-2010) DH
President Obama's summit meeting in … infringement on South Korean sovereignty.

Relations strong because of OPCON transfer – solves all perception links – delay was designed to send a message.
VOA News, 6/27 (6/27/10, VOA News, “US, South Korea Postpone Transfer of Wartime Force Control,” http://www1.voanews.com/english/news/asia/US-South-Korea-Postpone-Transfer-of-Wartime-Force-Control--97264784.html) DH
President Barack Obama has agreed … a more capable alliance," said Russel.
===2NC Link=== 
Security relationship is the lynchpin for all relations Campbell, et al, 09 – Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs (Kurt M., Center for a New American Security, “Going global: the future of the U.S.-South Korea alliance.” Ed. by Campbell et al, “Going global: the future of the U.S.-South Korea alliance.” P. 79-80 http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CampbellPatel_Going%20Global_February09_0.pdf) In spite of U.S. efforts to … fulfillment of the OPCON transfer. Lack of consultation will wreck the credibility of U.S. security assurances and spur allied nuclearization Campbell & Einhorn, 04 – senior vice president and director of the International Security Program at CSIS, AND

Senioror adviser in the CSIS International Security Program, where he works on a broad range of nonproliferation, armscontrol, and other national security issues (Kurt M. Campbell and Robert J. Einhorn, The Nuclear Tipping Point: Why States Reconsider Their Nuclear Choices, “12. Avoiding the Tipping Point: Concluding Observations,” ed by Campbell, Einhorn and Mitchell B. Reiss, JMP)
However, bolstering the confidence of … Egypt for pursuing a nuclear option.

South Korea public supports presence
Snyder, 08 – Senior Associate in the International Relations program of The Asia Foundation and Pacific Forum CSIS (Scott, Asia Policy, “U.S.-ROK Civil Society Ties: Dynamics and Prospects in a Post-Alliance World.” In “What If? A World without the U.S.-ROK Alliance.” Ed. by Nicholas Eberstadt, Aaron L. Friedberg & Geun Lee Number 5, (January 2008), 43-59)
Ultimately, South Korean public attitudes … closest neighbors, Japan and China.

ROK public opinion of the US dramatically affects the strength of relations.
Armacost, et. al., 10 – (5/10, Michael H. Armacost, Distinguished Fellow at the Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center, former U.S. Ambassador to Japan and the Philippines; and former under secretary of state for political affairs, other members of the New Beginnings Policy Research Study Group, a joint venture of The Korea Society and Stanford University’s Shorenstein Center, “‘New Beginnings’ in the U.S.-ROK Alliance: Recommendations to the Obama Administration,” iis-db.stanford.edu/evnts/6219/New_Beginnings_FINAL_May_2010.pdf) DH
Overall Relations Since the alliance … to Korea along similar lines.

Withdrawal will undermine commitment to South Korea
Henricks, 05 – Lieutenant Commander, Civil Engineer Corps, United States Navy (2/14/05, Todd B., “Adverse Effects of Prospective U.S. Forces Korea Troop Realignments,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463965&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)
The ROK will doubt the … in the event of attack.

Withdrawal will crush commitment to Seoul
Huessy, 03 – Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states (8/13/2003, Peter, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560]], JMP)
Ted Carpenter of the CATO … its security commitment to Seoul.

U.S. military presence key to critical to the U.S.-ROK alliance
Henricks, 05 – Lieutenant Commander, Civil Engineer Corps, United States Navy (2/14/05, Todd B., “Adverse Effects of Prospective U.S. Forces Korea Troop Realignments,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463965&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)
CONCLUSION
“The imminent prospect of … States and the international community.

==Politics== 
===Debt Ceiling=== 
====1NC==== 

It’ll pass but Obama needs to have to political ammo to endure the fight
Sargent 1/12-2011, [[mailto:greg@talkingpointsmemo.com|Greg Sargent]] is the editor of Election Central, Talking Points Memo's politics and elections Web site, “Chamber of Commerce prez: Debt ceiling hike "will be done"” http://voices.washingtonpost.com/plum-line/2011/01/chamber_of_commerce_prez_debt.html
With a showdown over the debt … showdown with a pretty strong hand.

Reducing foreign military activism is overwhelmingly unpopular—destroys political capital.
Logan 10. Justin Logan, Associate Director of Foreign Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, March 23, 2010, “The Domestic Bases of America's Grand Strategy,” online: [[@http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11606]]
Domestic politics is driving U.S. grand … are dramatically skewed toward activism.

The mere perception that the US is going to reach the ceiling kills investor confidence
Wallace 11-January 5, Charles Wallace is a veteran business journalist who has written about economics, corporate finance and consumer electronics forTime, Fortune, The Los Angeles Times, The Financial Times and Institutional Investor magazine, “The Debt-Ceiling War: Wall Street Could Be a Casualty” http://www.dailyfinance.com/story/credit/will-congressional-war-over-the-debt-ceiling-end-up-wounding-wal/19786800/
When the new Congress meets … get the debt ceiling raised.

Investor confidence is necessary for economic health and global economic stability
CANSIZLAR, 2002,Chair Capital Markets Board of Turkey & Chair of IOSCO Emerging Markets Committee, Logan Cansizlar’s Speech to the Securities Commision”, pg. [[http://www.sc.com.my/eng/html/resources/speech/sp_20021028_1.html]]
Investor confidence provides the foundation on which the securities market has been built. If … the health of the global economy due to spillover effects

Not Good!!!
Friedberg & Schoenfeld 08 Friedberg - professor of politics and international relations at Princeton & Schoenfeld - visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute 8 [Aaron Friedberg is a professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School. Gabriel Schoenfeld, senior editor of Commentary, is a visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., “The Dangers of a Diminished America,” Wall Street Journal, Ocbtober 21, 2008, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html]
With the global financial system … tag of continued American leadership.


====2NC Uniqueness==== 

No Debt Ceiling unless republicans get spending compromise
AP 1/6-2011, Associated Press, “Boehner: Spending cuts must accompany debt limit”
http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5gXxmH5UNtK-wOPYg2Mzylv0MZ3qg?docId=f4c47d80a35142f389e65bca8f8135ef
House Speaker John Boehner says any increase in the nation's debt limit must include steps to cut federal spending.
The Ohio Republican says the … together to rein in spending.

Senate democrats will lashout against GOP spending cuts
Sullivan 11-January 6, Andy Sullivan is a writer for Reuters, “House budget chairman says deeper cuts ahead”
http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE7055ZN20110106
Republicans had promised before the … we're here, and we're responsible.'"

Political capital key to get democrats to compromise—Recent tax cuts prove
Weisenthal 1/10-2011, Joe Weisenthal is a reporter for Clusterstock and former correspondent for paidContent.org, “Will It Actually Be Democrats That Create A Debt Ceiling Crisis?” http://www.businessinsider.com/will-it-actually-be-democrats-that-create-a-debt-ceiling-crisis-2011-1
The common assumption in the … to think about and wargame

AND, Republicans are simply playing a “Game of Chicken” with the democrats to get spending concessions but Obama has enough political capital to get the debt ceiling raised
Pace 11-January 4, [[http://www.time.com/time/letters/email_letter.html|Julie]] Pace is a political analysts for the Associated Press, “Obama's GOP Appeal: Put Politics Aside”
http://www.time.com/time/politics/article/0,8599,2040670,00.html
Another critical juncture could come … on openly gay service members.

Here’s more ev—

GOP will split from tea party and compromise
Yakabuski 11-January 4, Konrad Yakabuski is The Globe and Mail's chief U.S. political writer, based in Washington. He covers all aspects of the American political scene, including relevant social and cultural issues, “Many House Republicans likely to trade Tea Party zeal for moderation” http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/konrad-yakabuski/many-house-republicans-likely-to-trade-tea-party-zeal-for-moderation/article1857844/
Mr. Boehner’s first real test … different than it did in 2010.”

Will Pass—Treasury
Lightman and Hall 1/6-2011, David Lightman and Kevin Hall are reporters for McClatchy Newspapers, “Treasury warns Congress on debt limit” http://www.kansascity.com/2011/01/06/2565790/treasury-warns-congress-on-debt.html
The federal government could run … ceiling is not increased soon.

Obama pushing for compromise and bipart
Pace 11-January 4, [[http://www.time.com/time/letters/email_letter.html|Julie]] Pace is a political analysts for the Associated Press, “Obama's GOP Appeal: Put Politics Aside” http://www.time.com/time/politics/article/0,8599,2040670,00.html
Ending a two-week vacation, President … 21st century," the president said.

===Corporate Tax=== 
====1NC==== 

Will pass- political capital key- key to the economy
Davidson 1-27 Paul, USA Today, Corporate tax rates beg for cut but reform tough to achieve [[http://www.usatoday.com/money/perfi/taxes/2011-01-27-corporatetaxrates27_ST_N.htm]]
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Experts say the odds</span> that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">… </span>for the Washington Research Group.

<link>

Economic crisis triggers nuclear conflict.
Mead ‘9 (Walter Russell, Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of God and Gold: Britain, America and the Making of the Modern World, Lauren Gottlieb Provided Research Assistance, Only Makes You Stronger, Accessed Online @ TNR)
If current market turmoil seriously … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">may</span> still <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">have to fight</span>.


====2NC Semiconductors Impact==== 

Corporate Tax Reform solves semiconductor offshoring
LaPedus 1-26 (Mark, SIA sends wish list to Obama, [[http://www.eetimes.com/electronics-news/4212558/SIA-sends-wish-list-to-Obama-]])
SAN JOSE, Calif. - The U.S. Semiconductor … , Semiconductor Industry Association, in a statement.

Offshoring poses unique risks – adversaries will tamper with technology to gain a strategic advantage, devastates all military operations.
Defense Science, 2005 [Defense Science Board Task Force, “Defense Science Board Task Force On HIGH PERFORMANCE MICROCHIP SUPPLY,” February, http://www.acq.osd.mil/dsb/reports/ADA435563.pdf]
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Because of</span> the U.S. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">military dependence … </span>equivalent impact (i.e., software modification) Cost

Continued industry migration devastates the military – puts UAVs, missile defense, cruise missiles, and intel at risk.
Lieberman, 2003 [Joe, US Senator, “THE NATIONAL SECURITY ASPECTS OF THE GLOBAL MIGRATION OF THE U.S. SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY,” 6-5, http://www.fas.org/irp/congress/2003_cr/s060503.html]
The Pentagon's Advisory Group on … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">an acceptable national security option.</span>

UAVs key to solve terrorism.
Anderson, 3-8-2010 [Fellow on the Hoover Task Force on National Security and Law, and a professor at American University, Washington College of Law, Weekly Standard, Vol. 15, No. 24, “Predators Over Pakistan”, http://www.weeklystandard.com/print/articles/predators-over-pakistan]
Targeting terrorists and militants with … a critical part of our offense.

The risk of a nuclear terror attack is high and it causes extinction—experts agree
Rhodes 9, 12-14-09 Richard, affiliate of the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University, Former visiting scholar at Harvard and MIT, and author of “The Making of the Atomic Bomb” which won the Pulitzer Prize in Nonfiction, National Book Award, and National Book Critics Circle Award. “Reducing the nuclear threat: The argument for public safety” [[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/op-eds/reducing-the-nuclear-threat-the-argument-public-safety]]
The response was very different … the name of sending a message.

Cruise missiles are critical to East Asian military presence – deters China.
Ross, 2005 [Robert, professor of political science at Boston College, an associate at the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard University and senior advisor in the security studies program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Assessing the China Threat,” The National Interest, Fall, http://www.cerium.ca/IMG/pdf/Ross_-_Assessing_the_China_Threat_-_National_Interest.pdf]
Moreover, the United States is … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">balance of power and U.S. security,</span> n

Extinction.
The Strait Times, 2000 [“No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis]
The high-intensity scenario postulates <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a … </span>puts sovereignty above everything else.

Missile defense prevents rogue nuclear aggression.
Kourri, 2009 [Jim, vice-president of the National Association of Chiefs of Police and a staff writer for the New Media Alliance, “Exclusive: Security: Obama, Gates Gamble with American Lives,” 7-18, http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.3772,css.print/pub_detail.asp]
* <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The threat from North … </span>listen to the American public."

Global nuclear war.
Dibb, 2006 [Paul, Emeritus Prof of IR, Australian National University, Sydney Morning Herald (Australia), August 15, 2006 Tuesday, “As one nuclear flashpoint reaches a lull, another simmers away,” Pg. 11, Lexis]
NOW that the building blocks … Israel in the Middle East.

==Debate K== 
===1NC=== 
**We begin the first negative constructive with a story**
**Andrew ‘Ender’ Wiggen is a 7 year old strategist, drafted into the world’s military in the novel Ender’s Game. Plucked from Earth at the age of 6 he is in a constant struggle in the Battle School, an orbiting space station training Earth’s best and brightest to do battle in the zero G battle room against each other in units or “armies” in preparation for an inevitable war with an Alien race called the Buggers. This is part of his story:**
<span class="Underline">After practice one afternoon, Ender stayed in the battleroom. He had noticed that Dink Meeker usually came late to dinner<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and he assumed it was for extra practice. Ender wasn't very hungry, </span>and he wanted to see what it was Dink practiced when no one else could see<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. But Dink didn't practice. He stood near the door, watching Ender. </span>Ender stood across the room, watching Dink<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Neither spoke. It was plain Dink expected Ender to leave. It was just as plain that Ender was saying no. </span>Dink turned his back on Ender, methodically took off his flash suit, and gently pushed off from the floor. He drifted slowly toward the center of the room, very slowly, his body relaxing almost completely, so that his hands and arms seemed to be caught by almost nonexistent air currents in the room<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. After the speed and tension of practice, the exhaustion, the alertness, it was restful just to watch him drift. He did it for ten minutes or so before he reached another wall. </span>Then he pushed off rather sharply, returned to his flash suit, and pulled it on<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. "Come on," he said to Ender. </span>They went to the barracks. The room was empty, since all the boys were at dinner<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Each went to his own bunk and changed into regular uniforms. Ender walked to Dink's bunk and waited for a moment till Dink was ready to go. "</span>Why did you wait?" asked Dink<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. "</span>Wasn't hungry<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." "</span>Well, now you know why I'm not a commander<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." Ender had wondered. "Actually, </span>they promoted me twice, and I refused<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." "Refused?" "</span>They took away my old locker and bunk and desk, assigned me to a commander cabin and gave me an army. But I just stayed in the cabin until they gave in and put me back into somebody else's army<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." "</span>Why<span style="font-size: 7pt;">?" "</span>Because I won't let them do it to me.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> I can't believe you haven't seen through all this crap yet, Ender. But I guess you're young. </span>These other armies, they aren't the enemy. It's the teachers, they're the enemy. They get us to fight each other, to hate each other. The game is everything. Win win win, it amounts to nothing. We kill ourselves, go crazy trying to beat each other, and all the time the old bastards are watching us, studying us, discovering our weak points, deciding whether we're good enough or not. Well, good enough for what? I was six years old when they brought me here. What the hell did I know? They decided I was right for the program, but nobody ever asked me if the program was right for me." "So why don't you go home?" <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Dink smiled crookedly. "</span>Because I can't give up the game." He tugged at the fabric of his flash suit,<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> which lay on the bunk beside him. "</span>Because I love this<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." "</span>So why not be a commander<span style="font-size: 7pt;">?" Dink shook his head. "</span>Never. Look what it does to Rosen<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The boy's crazy. Rose de Nose. </span>Sleeps in here with us instead of in his cabin. Why? Because he's scared to be alone, </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Ender. Scared of the dark." "Rose?" </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">"</span>But they made him a commander and so he has to act like one. He doesn't know what he's doing. He's winning, but that scares him worst of all, because he doesn't know what he's winning<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, except that I have something to do with it. Any minute somebody could find out that Rosen isn't some magic Israeli general who can win no matter what. He doesn't know why anybody wins or loses. Nobody does." "</span>It doesn't mean he's crazy, Dink<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." "</span>I know, you've been here a year, you think these people are normal. Well, they're not. We're not<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. I look in the library, I call up books on my desk. Old ones, because they won't let us have anything new, but I've got a pretty good idea what children are, and we're not children. Children can lose sometimes, and nobody cares. </span>Children aren't in armies, they aren't commanders, they don't rule over forty other kids, it's more than anybody can take and not get a little crazy." </span>


**We quote this passage from Orson Scott Card’s novel, Ender’s Game (2002. P106-8) not as another debate card, but as a story for us to consider in relation to our lives and our participation in debate. While we don't wish to mock our opponent’s advocacy, we're trying to recognize how we all engage in discourse that ignores the disturbing implications of our own thoughts and actions. The above tale teaches us that sometimes our resolve to make a better world comes attached with a refusal to question ourselves, we trade agency for the game and become all the worse for it.**
**We continue our exposition with a section from the end of the novel, after Ender has won the war and eliminated the last hive on last planet in the last galaxy in the universe.**
He walked to the mirror, lifted, pulled away. Nothing jumped from the space behind it. Instead, in a hollowed-out place, there was a white ball of silk with a few frayed strands sticking out here and there. An egg? No. The pupa of a queen<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> bugger, already fertilized by the larval males, ready, out of her own body, to hatch a hundred thousand buggers, including a few queens and males. Ender could see the slug-like males clinging to the walls of a dark tunnel, and the large adults carrying the infant queen to the mating room; each male in turn penetrated the larval queen, shuddered in ecstasy, and died, dropping to the tunnel floor and shriveling. Then the new queen was laid before the old, a magnificent creature clad in soft and shimmering wings, which had long since lost the power of flight but still contained the power of majesty. </span>The old queen<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> kissed her to sleep with the gentle poison in her lips, then wrapped her in threads from her belly, and </span>commanded her to become herself, to become a new city, a new world, to give birth to many queens and many worlds<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>How do I know this, thought Ender.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> How can I see these things, like memories in my own mind. </span>As if in answer, he saw the first of all his battles with the bugger fleets. He had seen it before on the simulator; now he saw it as the hive-queen saw it, through many different eyes<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The buggers formed their globe of ships, and then the terrible fighters came out of the darkness and the Little Doctor destroyed them in a blaze of light. </span>He felt then what the hive-queen felt, watching through her workers' eyes as death came to them too quickly to avoid, but not too quickly to be anticipated<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. There was no memory of pain or fear, though. What the hive-queen felt was sadness, a sense of resignation. </span>She had not thought these words as she saw the humans coming to kill, but it was in words that Ender understood her: They did not forgive us, she thought. We will surely die<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. "</span>How can you live again?" he asked<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The queen in her silken cocoon had no words to give back; but when he closed his eyes and tried to remember, instead of memory came new images. </span>Putting the cocoon in a cool place, a dark place, but with water, so she wasn't dry<span style="font-size: 7pt;">; no, not just water, but water mixed with the sap of a certain tree, and kept tepid so that certain reactions could take place in the cocoon. </span>Then time. Days and weeks<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, for the pupa inside to change. And then, when the cocoon had changed to a dusty brown color, Ender saw himself splitting open the cocoon, and helping the small and fragile queen emerge. He saw himself taking her by the forelimb and helping her walk from her birthwater to a nesting place, soft with dried leaves on sand. Then I am alive, came the thought in his mind. Then I am awake. Then I make my ten thousand children. "</span>No," said Ender. "I can't<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." Anguish. "</span>Your children are the monsters of our nightmares now. If I awoke you, we would only kill you again<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." </span>There flashed through his mind a dozen images of human beings being killed by buggers, but with the image came a grief so powerful he could not bear it, and he wept their tears for them<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. "</span>If you could make them feel as you can make me feel, then perhaps they could forgive you<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." Only me, he realized. They found me through the ansible, followed it and dwelt in my mind. In the agony of my tortured dreams they came to know me, </span>even as I spent my days destroying them; they found my fear of them, and found also that I had no knowledge I was killing them<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In the few weeks they had, they built this place for me, and the Giant's corpse and the playground and the ledge at the End of the World, so I would find this place by the evidence of my eyes. I am the only one they know, and so they can only talk to me, and through me. We are like you; the thought pressed into his mind. We did not mean to murder, and when we understood, we never came again. We thought we were the only thinking beings in the universe, until we met you, but never did we dream that thought could arise from the lonely animals who cannot dream each other's dreams. How were we to know? We could live with you in peace. Believe us, believe us, believe us. </span>He reached into the cavity and took out the cocoon. It was astonishingly light, to hold all the hope and future of a great race within it<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. "</span>I'll carry you," said Ender, "I'll go from world to world until I find a time and a place where you can come awake in safety. And I'll tell your story to my people, so that perhaps in time they can forgive you, too<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The way that you've forgiven me." He wrapped the queen's cocoon in his jacket and carried her from the tower. </span>"What was in there?" asked Abra. "The answer," said Ender<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. "</span>To what?" "My question<span style="font-size: 7pt;">." And that was all he said of the matter; they searched for five more days and chose a site for the new colony far to the east and south of the tower.</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(pg. 319-21) </span></span>


**No one in debate has pointed this out more relevantly than Gordon Mitchell. In his Fall 1998 article for Argumentation and Advocacy ('Pedagogical Possibilities for Argumentative Agency in Academic Debate'. v35. p43-4.), he explains how the sterile laboratory model of debate desensitizes participants to human suffering and enslaves our activity within a spectator-mentality :**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">While an isolated academic space that affords students an opportunity to learn in a protected environment has significant pedagogical value (see e.g. Coverstone 1995, p. 8-9), </span>__the notion of the academic debate tournament as a sterile laboratory carries with it some disturbing implications, when__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the metaphor is extended to its limit. To the extent that the academic space begins to take on characteristics of a laboratory, </span>__the barriers demarcating such a space from other spheres of deliberation beyond the school grow taller and less permeable. When such barriers reach insurmountable dimensions, argumentation in the academic setting unfolds on a purely simulated plane, with students practicing critical thinking and advocacy skills in strictly hypothetical thought-spaces.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Although they may research and track public argument as it unfolds outside the confines of the laboratory for research purposes, in this approach, students witness argumentation beyond the walls of the academy as spectators, with little or no apparent recourse to directly participate or alter the course of events (see Mitchell 1995; 1998). </span>__The sense of detachment associated with the spectator posture is highlighted during episodes of alienation in which debaters cheer news of human suffering or misfortune. Instead of focusing on the visceral negative responses to news accounts of human death and misery, debaters overcome with the competitive zeal of contest round competition show a tendency to concentrate on the meanings that such evidence might hold for the strength of their academic debate arguments. For example, news reports of mass starvation might tidy up the "uniqueness of a disadvantage" or bolster the "inherency of an affirmative case"__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (in the technical parlance of debate-speak). Murchland categorizes cultivation of this "spectator" mentality as one of the most politically debilitating failures of contemporary education: </span>__"Educational institutions have failed even more grievously to provide the kind of civic forums we need. In fact, one could easily conclude that the principle purposes of our schools is to deprive successor generations of their civic voice, to turn them into mute and uncomprehending spectators in the drama of political life"__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (1991, p. 8).</span>



**He goes on to connect this lack of argumentative agency to the danger that corporate or statist institutions may recruit debaters to legitimate insidious forms of social control (ibid. p44-5) :**
__The undercultivation of student agency in the academic field of argumentation is a particularly pressing problem, since social theorists such as Foucault, Habermas and Touraine have proposed that information and communication have emerged as significant media of domination and exploitation in contemporary society. These scholars argue, in different ways, that new and particularly insidious means of social control have developed in recent times. These methods of control are insidious in the sense that they suffuse apparently open public spheres and structure opportunities for dialogue in subtle and often nefarious ways.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Who has authority to speak in public forums? How does socioeconomic status determine access to information and close off spaces for public deliberation? Who determines what issues are placed on the agenda for public discussion? It is impossible to seriously consider these questions and still hew closely to the idea that a single, monolithic, essentialized "public sphere" even exists. Instead, multiple public spheres exist in diverse cultural and political milieu, and communicative practices work to transform and reweave continuously the normative fabric that holds them together. </span>__Some public spaces are vibrant and full of emancipatory potential, while others are colonized by restrictive institutional logics.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Argumentation skills can be practiced in both contexts, but how can the utilization of such skills transform positively the nature of the public spaces where dialogue takes place? For students and teachers of argumentation, the heightened salience of this question should signal the danger that critical thinking and oral advocacy skills alone may not be sufficient for citizens to assert their voices in public deliberation. </span>__Institutional interests bent on shutting down dialogue and discussion may recruit new graduates skilled in argumentation and deploy them in information campaigns designed to neutralize public competence and short-circuit democratic decision-making (one variant of Habermas' "colonization of the lifeworld"__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> thesis; see Habermas 1981, p. 376-373).</span>__Habermas sees the emergent capacity of capitalist institutions to sustain themselves by manufacturing legitimacy through strategic communication__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as a development that profoundly transforms the Marxist political dynamic. </span>__By colonizing terms and spaces of public dialogue with instrumental, strategically-motivated reasoning, institutions__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> are said by Habermas to </span>__have engineered a "refeudalization" of the public sphere. In this distorted space for public discussion, corporations and the state forge a monopoly on argumentation and subvert critical deliberation by members of an enlightened, debating public.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This colonization thesis supplements the traditional Marxist problematic of class exploitation by highlighting a new axis of domination, the way in which capitalist systems rely upon the strategic management of discourse as a mode of legitimation and exploitation. </span>__Indeed, the implicit bridge that connects argumentation skills to democratic empowerment in many argumentation textbooks crosses perilous waters, since institutions facing "legitimation crises"__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (see Habermas 1975) </span>__rely increasingly on recruitment and deployment of argumentative talent to manufacture public loyalty.__



**One may ask, why are you still following the rules? Why aren't you doing a dadaist jig? Why aren't you vandalizing tournaments? Indeed, why haven't you exited debate? We wish to avoid being either generically avant-garde or generically anti-debate, and we know that one of the reasons debate rounds in 2005 look very different from rounds in 1985 is because kritiks won ballots. So we act to sneak explosive creativities through the back-door, using the appearance of a legitimate carded position in order to further illegitimate questions, to light those critical fires that may burn away some of the narrow-minded micro-fascisms of debate. Experimenting with new articulations requires a modest method of lodging oneself in collective assemblages, gently tipping them toward their own self-critique, without causing polarization, while avoiding the dis-empowering alternatives of either total rejection or pseudo-revolution. Deleuze & Guattari in A Thousand Plateaus (1980. p160-1.)**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">You have to keep enough of the organism for it to reform each dawn; and </span>you have to keep small supplies of significance and subjectification, if only to turn them against their own systems when the circumstances demand it<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, when things, persons, even situations force you to; </span>and you have to keep small rations of subjectivity in sufficient quantity to enable you to respond to the dominant reality. Mimic the strata. You don't reach the BwO, and its plane of consistency, by wildly destratifying.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> That is why we encountered the paradox of those emptied and dreary bodies at the very beginning: //they had emptied themselves of their organs// instead of looking for the point which they could patiently and momentarily dismantle the organization of organs we call the organism. </span>There are, in fact, several ways of botching the BwO<span style="font-size: 7pt;">: either one fails to produce it, or one produces it more or less, but nothing is produced on it, intensities do not pass or are blocked. </span>This is because the BwO is always swinging between the surfaces that stratify it and the plane that sets it free. If you free it with too violent an action, if you blow apart the strata without taking precautions, then instead of drawing the plane you will be killed, plunged into a black hole, or even dragged toward catastrophe. Staying stratified - organized, signified, subjected - is not the worst that can happen; the worst that can happen is if you throw the strata into demented or suicidal collapse, which brings them back down on us heavier than ever. This is how it should be done: Lodge yourself on a stratum, experiment with the opportunities it offers, find an advantageous place on it, find potential movements of deterritorialization, possible lines of flight, experience them, produce flow conjunctions here and there, try out continuums of intensities segment by segment, have a small plot of new land at all times.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> It is through a meticulous relation with the strata that one succeeds in freeing lines of flight, causing conjugated flows to pass and escape and bringing forth continuous intensities for a BwO. </span>Connect, conjugate, continue: a whole "diagram," as opposed to still signifying and subjective programs. We are in a social formation; first see how it is stratified for us and in us and at the place where we are; then descend from the strata to the deeper assemblage within which we are held; gently tip the assemblage, making it pass over to the side of the plane of consistency.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> It is only there that the BwO reveals itself for what it is: connection of desires, conjunction of flows, continuum of intensities. </span>You have constructed your own little machine, ready when needed to be plugged into other collective machines.

===2NC Overview=== 

Welcome to the Alpharetta Treasure Hunt where roving bands of debaters roam the hallways attempting to steal wins from each other to get the shiny trophy. The ‘W’ is the currency of the debate community and your ballot should reflect that, what teams you vote for and what arguments are endorsed define how future debates will go down. What arguments you don’t vote for and what arguments are rejected describe alternate visions of debate that could have been but aren’t. The reason debate in 2010 looks different from debate in 1984 is that kritiks won ballots, the reason why beacon DF can get to finals of the barkley forum reading an aff without a plan text is because arguments like that won ballots, the reason why Townson CL, Towson CK and Towson EM can all succeed in the college level is that their arguments and argument like that win ballots. If you want to talk about policy, the reason the 50 states CP, the worst thing to happen to policy debate since ASPEC and T-substantial, and the politics disad, which is 95% of the time dumber than ASPEC, can be read in a 1NC is because those arguments won a lot of debates especially last year. We are not a policy replacement and we are certainly not an abdication of all policy, instead we are a policy corrective. There is a massive deficit in the way debates occur in the status quo. Heck, even Scott Phillips, who high school debater flock to like 12 year olds at a Justin Bieber concert, agrees that modern debate has become to fixated on terminal impacts, accessing just that much greater a terminal impact.
(Scott Phillips, 2/10/11, The3nr, http://www.the3nr.com/2011/02/10/some-notes-on-impacts/)
__I’m somewhat baffled by many of the debates I see lately (as well as with the decisions of other judges when I listen to them) with the strange focus on terminal impacts, both in what percentage of time is spent debating them, and then even after a lot of time is spent arguing defense to them with how large of a “risk” judges assign them. Especially with people who I have had conversations with about how to debate or adjudicate impacts who when they are then in a debate seem to disregard/not employ the views they had previously expressed.__


Why do 2NRs and 2ARs have to start a debate with impact calculus? Because that form of argumentation has been encouraged tournament after tournament. Screw the link debate, we can just win turns case and “warming outweighs” and then it’s just a risk of a link. 1% of infinity is still infinity right? And it’s not just “policy debates”, if anything traditional K debates have become even more inane. Zero Point of the Holocaust! No Value to Life! Extinction! Whatever Zizek says! Lacan has become a buzzword for a series of obtuse overhighlighted assertions about the how you secretly think your mom is hot. The Security K has literally become a meaningless term as debater cobble together conflicting authors in a 1NC shell none of the people they cite would agree with.
The 1AC is symptomatic of this _
The ballots serves as a referendum on how the military presence exists in debate. We are a guerilla intervention into status quo discussions about military presence. Using the appearance of “legitimate carded positions” while instead using passages from science fiction enables us to sneak in questions about how debate works. Instead of just trashing rooms and leaving debate entirely we are a wolf in sheep’s clothing tricking people like Will Caplan into thinking what we have made is a “real” argument.
Status quo debate mirrors The Battle School of Ender’s Game. Some of the smartest kids around the world are selected to in order to participate in an activity steeped in destruction and warfare where we become ratio calculating computers and not like Watson the jeopardy champion. The deaths in the Battle Rooms and on the screens of the simulators parallel the “billions of deaths” and “multiple extinction” scenarios of 2NC/2AR Impact Calc. while we develop a certain neurosis. Like Dink Meeker we can’t leave the Game, it’s too much fun so instead we just don’t get promoted, we don’t leave the system and when we go into jobs later we carry with us the cost/benefit polemical devil’s advocate type mindset. How much worse do you think the Iraq war could have been if there were proficient policy debaters arguing FOR first striking Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan? What would Congress do in the face of Westminster AT, all grown up, reading their 25 bazillion ice age cards in response to Cap and Trade legislation? Maybe they’re right and an ice age is coming, but in a world of policy debate that means we nuke the north and south poles and purposefully destroy the ozone layer and while we are at it, why not first strike china or reinstate autocratic governments to prevent 10 times the number of deaths when the crunch happens. We can’t reconcile with an Alien other when we have the world’s best strategist already on their way to the absolute annihiliation of the last alien homeworld. What’s the point of communication when we have already gone to the extreme? It is almost impossible to be moderate when you engage the extremists on their level. They’ll drag you down and beat you with experience. Instead we should take these arguments and use them, twist them, turn them, modify them, rinse and repeat until we have created a new form of debate, less extremist and more reconciliatory. Like Ender, we should take the 1AC as a jumping off point to create something. From within the skeleton of the 1AC we bring forth something new and positive. There is no looking back, we should just be constant new creation.

Now, the 1AR and 2AR will probably say that we have dropped a lot of arguments because we are too slow, not doing line by line or are just bad at debate, but you should think about what they have said first. Is what they have extended a genuinely unique and unanswered argument? Line-by-line taken to the extreme is something we would also disagree with, it segments the debate into a bunch of mini debate that ignores the larger context that it exists in. This is what causes us to look only at the impact level of the debate and check in on try or die, because it ignores the way that discussion fits in with the link discussion or the internal link debate. Instead of evaluating arguments in a segmented artificial way, you should think about it in a holistic manner. Have they provided a coherent comprehensive argument that refutes ours? They may be right and I dropped subpoint I of argument number 7 on the third page of the framework flow, but unless they explain how that argument directly answers all the other claims we have made then it should not be regarded as dropped. Being able to explain how all these individual ‘dropped’ arguments fit into a larger cohesive force is a brightline for actually answering the negative.

===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">**AT Framework**</span>=== 


Counterinterpretation – the resolution is a filter to discuss military presence in this space. We are not a wholesale replacement of debate and we aren’t saying every debate should be exactly like this one, just that in this round you should endorse a change, even if a small one, in the way our debates occur.
The criticism is the net benefit to our framework interpretation, discussion of militarism within the structure of debate is necessary to change that, that’s the solvency arguments and arguments that wins and losses create debate
This should frame all of your decisions because violence should always outweigh their fairness arguments, even if there are marginal imbalances in fairness the fact that our discursive violence creates actual exclusion elsewhere should outweigh. You might be right that you lose an add-on but human life should probably outweigh
Fairness and ground are just internal links to education, fairness in it of itself isn’t a goal or something to be preserved or tic-tac-toe would be the best game ever and we should be playing card games. We are impact turning their education claims because the ground that they are given is strung together in order to create the kind of polemical arguments that we impact in the 2NC. We are a key internal link to education because an analysis of how debate produces knowledge and facts is necessary to determine if their education is even worth something. Even if in the abstract their disads or impacts are true, you should endorse a meta system that analyzes those claims which is the negative. Also, indepth policy education has become a joke, if we read a generic agent CP and politics they wouldn’t read framework but a criticism of the 1AC should be excluded from this round. Seriously, “policy engagement” with the rest of the world is inevitable. I’m going to pay attention to the riots in Libya, Egypt, Tunisia, Iran and Burma, the fact that the House passed parts of the Patriot Act again, the fact that we have COIN troops stationed in Afghanistan regardless of the fact that I’m going for this argument. However, how often will you ponder the way debate operates on a daily basis? Maybe or once or twice a month? You might think about it all the time, but you would just be an example of what we are trying to make the rest of this institution think and act like. This is a unique site to talk about the way our debates go down in a place that influences other teams through wins and losses.
And they necessarily exclude tons of schools and teams like Towson, UCO, Oklahoma, Louiseville, Towson, Millard South, Us, Long Beach from the movie Resolved, Thorndale, Churchill and many other teams that don’t think that fiat is necessary for education. Their archaic interpretation would force them out of the community silencing their voices which is the terminal impact to their fairness and ground claims.
Their predictability claims are answered by the thesis of our argument, wins/losses create predictability so it is impossible to have a “predictable” interpretation of debate because it is constantly changing as arguments, teams and advocacies win and lose. This is also ridiculous because many other teams have won on arguments similar to ours and the fact that they aren’t prepared proves that they have purposefully ignored those forms of arguments and WANT to go for theory. THEY KNEW we were going to read something distinct from the usual arguments read and could have prepared accordingly.
We also impact turn their predictability claims because the idea that there should be a static pool of arguments we should be able to read and link chains that can be made necessarily discourages innovation and critical analysis of their arguments because this is all we got. There is a reason we do debate and not mock trial.
There is a reason we all decided to spend our weekend at the Alpharetta debate tournament and it’s not because of the striking architecture and food. If what we do in debate rounds doesn’t change the way other people interact then what are you doing here? You and I both know that debaters gossip more than the View which means other Georgia debaters are going to have at least cut answers to our argument. This may mean they cut new cede the political cards but it probably means they cut better internal link cards, read more reasonable advantages or change the way they debate in some way to accommodate that.
And this is not a reason for them to win, even if they convince you of the framework debate, that’s just a reason why you should evaluate the affirmative’s advantage claims and our criticism of them against a change within the debate community.
Also, extend the argument from cross-x, the reason their education is good is because it’s necessary to solve problems like the 1AC, but their impacts are supposedly only a few years away and really soon, if this was true then there is no way that their method of debating can resolve these problems because it would take longer than just those few months or years for them to influence that level of policy. What we need is an entire change in the way debates occur to prevent the reasons the harms of the affirmative even need to be “resolved’ through polemical debate. This means you should assign literally 0 weight to their education standards.

===AT Perm=== 

The argument that we should “do both” the 1NC and the 1AC doesn’t make sense. The negative position is entirely in opposition to not just the “reps” “ontology” or advantages of the 1AC or even the political process. We are a criticism of the way they have chosen to present their arguments which can’t just be resolved by “doing both”. Think about what that even means. We are not testing the USfg should <x> part of the 1AC, we an even more important question, is the way they have debated, is the template they have used to construct their argument a good one. You can’t just combine two entirely different methods of debate and the 2AC certaintly doesn’t attempt to explicitly either justify why they can kick not just the 1AC but the entire debate prior to the 1NC or how would the permutation would even work. The fact that the rest of the 2AC links to our argument proves that they aren’t actually a change in strategy but instead just an attempt to apologize while repeating the same mistakes over and over. Everything about the 1NC was an interruption of dominant debate paradigms. The rejection of tenuous and contrived internal links chains, using science fiction instead of political pundits and think tank writers, not having traditional impact calculus are just parts of our argument. You should take the position of Ender, having graduated from Battle School you are now looking back on the battlefield you have left and can now create anew something that repairs damage done. The permutation asks you to go back to battle school, to return to the system of militaristic, heuristic thinking that created the extinction of a foreign race that we ask you to fix.




=Specific Rounds= 
==Wake Forest Round 2 v. Marist CT (COIN)== 
Aff: COIN - Heg + Pakistan Instability
1NC Gender IR, T - combat troops, START, NMS CP, CMR, Heg Bad, Afghan Instability Defense
2NC: Gender IR, T - combat troops, Instability
1NR: START, NMS CP, CMR, Heg Bad
2NR: NMS CP, CMR, Heg Bad
=== === 
==Wake Forest Round 4 v. Lexington GT (COIN)== 
Aff COIN - Heg + Terrorism + Instability
1NC: Orientalism, T - combat troops, START, NMS CP, CMR, Heg Bad, Afghan Instability Defense, Terror Defense
2NC: Orientalism
1NR: START, Case
2NR: Orientalism

==Wake Forest Round 6 v. Stratford (Bagram)== 
Aff Bagram Courts - Judicial Independence, I-Law, Terror
1NC: CIL PIC, T - ground troops, START, Democracy Bad, JI Bad, Terror defense
2NC: CIL PIC
1NR: START
2NR: CIL PIC

==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">Chattahoochee Round 1 v. Johns Creek (TNWs)</span>== 
Aff TNWs - Iran prolif, Israeli Strikes, ME prolif
1NC: NMS CP, CMR, START, Gender IR, T - troops only, Turkey credibility/relation turns on case
2NC: T - troops only, NMS, CMR, Case
1NR: START
2NR: NMS + CMR

==Chattahoochee Round 3 v. Sequoyah (Futenma)== 
Aff Futenma - Imperialism
1NC: Whaling Condition CP, NMS CP, CMR DA, T - troops only, START, case D
2NC: Whaling CP, Case D,
1NR: START
2NR: Whaling CP

==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">Chattahoochee Quarters v. Woodward SS (COIN)</span>== 
Aff COIN - OSB good
1NC: "Humyn rights" PIC, PIC out of Human Rights, Human Rights Promo bad, START, OSB bad/Heg good
2NC: Humyn rights PIC
1NR: Heg Good/OSB bad
2NR: Humyn rights PIC
==Lexington Round 2 v. Edgemont JN== 
Aff Counternarcotis -- Terrorism, Pakistan Stability, Myanmar stability, Afghanistan stability
1NC: Debt Ceiling Politics, Security K, Pakistan Advantage CP, T - substantial, Case
2NC: K and case
1NR: Politics and case
2NR: Politics and case

==Lexington Round 3 v. Head Royce SK== 
Aff Withdraw soldiers with PTSD -- calculations bad, util bad, no value to life
1NC: T - combat troops, Iraq Withdrawal CP, State Bad K, Debt Ceiling Politics, Heg Disad, Case
2NC: Iraq Withdrawal CP, Case, Heg Disad
1NR: T - combat troops, Heg Disad (I'm not entirely sure)
2NR: T, Iraq CP, Heg Disad, Case

==Lexington Round 6 v. Dallas Jesuit KM== 
Aff South Korea -- Regionalism, Korean War, China Containment Bad
1NC: T - Ground Forces, 6-party talks + End Taiwan Arms sales CP, Debt Ceiling Politics, Kritik, ROK investment disad, ROK alliance disad, China Containment Good, Case
2NC: China Containment Good, Case
1NR: T, CP, Politics
2NR: T

==Lexington Octos v. UClab HR== 
Aff Iraq-Afghanistan (Basically reinstate DADT there) -- Futurism Bad, Heteronormativity
1NC: T - combat troops, NMS CP, Deleuze and Guattari K, Heg Disad, Case
2NC: Case, K
1NR: Heg Disad
2NR: Case, K

==Emory Round 2 v Centennial== 
Aff -- Futenma
1NC: Security K, China Disad, Restructuring CP, Politics, Case
2NC: China Disad, CP, Case
1NR: Politics, Case
2NR: China Disad, Case

==Emory Round 4 v Bronx Science== 
Aff COIN - heg, pakistan stability
1NC: T - combat, Security K, Withdrawal Disad, Pakistan Infrastructure CP, Case (India relations disad, china modernization disad, stability disad)
2NC: CP, Withdrawal Disad, Case
1NR: T, Case
2NR: CP, Withdrawal Disad, Case

==Emory Round 6 v Chattahoochee== 
Aff Futenma - japan alliance
1NC: T - reduce, T - substantial, Security K, Regionalism Disad, China deterrence bad Disad, Uniqueness CP, Politics, Case (Ice age on warming)
2NC: Kritik, Regionalism Disad, China Deterrence Bad Disad, Uniqueness CP
1NR: T - reduce, Case
2NR: T - reduce, Kritik