[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Inherency </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">First, US military basing is expanding in Korea despite opposition by local populations </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Kirk 8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies at Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, <span style="color: blue;"><span style="-webkit-background-clip: initial; -webkit-background-origin: initial; background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span></span>)</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The **expansion of…**</span>__ __<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">new bombing training site.</span>__ </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">And, despite the “zero tolerance” policy and executive orders, military prostitution and immunity from prosecution for sex crimes continues in Korea </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Kirk 8</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies at Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, <span style="color: blue;"><span style="-webkit-background-clip: initial; -webkit-background-origin: initial; background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span></span>)</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Military prostitution continues…</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> industry flourished during the Vietnam War. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Advantage - Prostitution </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">US military presence in Korea sustains prostitution and violence—Americans project Orientalist and gendered notions of culture onto Korean women to maintain a permanent underclass in Korea </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Moon 9</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Katharine H.S. College professor “Military Prostitution and the U.S. Military in Asia” in The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus. January 17 <span style="color: blue;"><span style="-webkit-background-clip: initial; -webkit-background-origin: initial; background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/margins-to-centre/2009-January/001668.html]]</span></span> KD)</span> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Where there are soldiers, there… at Amerasian transit center, Ho Chi Minh City, 1992. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Military violence is neither natural nor inevitable—war is sustained by gendered systems of identity like military prostitution </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Enloe 93</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Cynthia, Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley “The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of the Cold War” p. 245-248) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Conquerors' mistresses, wartime rape victims,…</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> __as the most analytically interesting__</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Current ideologies of a dangerous world solidify the gendered order of international relations. The war in Korea will never end until military masculinity is challenged </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Enloe 93</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Cynthia, Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley “The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of the Cold War” p. 12-16)</span> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The filmmakers weren't able… side of the rising Cold War wall.9 </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The US perpetuates a sexist ideology everywhere it goes; this legitimizes class and race struggles and the subjugation of women</span>** </span></span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Enloe 90,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cynthia </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Ph.D. from the University of California/Berkeley</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Bananas, Bases, and Patriarchy<span style="color: black;">”</span>in “Women, militarism, and war: essays in history, politics, and social theory,” by Jean Bethke Elshtain and Sheila Tobias, p 187-205 JD)

Most </span>__historical accounts…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a "banana republic." </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Invisible conflicts create more violence than publicized militaristic violence </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Reardon, 93**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Betty, Women and peace: feminist visions of global security, p.39-40 JD)

War has always…</span> __go on unabated.__</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Patriarchal militarism will end life on Earth </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Warren and Cady 94</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Karen and Duane, Professors of Philosophy at Malacaster College and Hamline University)</span> </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The notion of patriarchy as… connections in regional, national, and global. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">The idea of masculine military dominance makes nuclear war inevitable </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Reardon 93 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Betty, “Women and peace: feminist visions of global security” p.31) </span>

__<span style="color: black;">A clearly visible element</span>____<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> for standing armies to be used. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Orientalist notion that Korea must be defended is wrong and makes war inevitable </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Barkawi 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Tarak, lecturer in international security at the Centre of International Studies, University of Cambridge, specializes in the study of war, “Orientalism at War in Korea,” <span style="-webkit-background-clip: initial; -webkit-background-origin: initial; background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p252622_index.html]]</span> KD) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Since its publication… few outnumbered Americans. </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Solvency </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Only withdrawal of our military basing can prevent sexploitation—the plan is the only option to combat rape and prostitution</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Kirk, 2008</span>**<span style="color: black;">(Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, <span style="color: blue;"><span style="-webkit-background-clip: initial; -webkit-background-origin: initial; background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]]</span></span>) </span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Militarism is a system…</span>__** **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">and to act accordingly </span>__**</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">Sex trafficking and rape are flourishing, and we are complicit due to our military basing strategies in Asia. Postmodern problematizations of feminisms and definitions promote the very silence that fuels this system of sexploitation. Academia is a key site for the theorization of the global sex trade and is vital to opening up spaces of resistance.</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Stone 5</span>**<span style="color: black;">(Marjorie, Prof Gender Studies at Dalhousie University, “Twenty-first Century Global Sex Trafficking: Migration, Capitalism, Class, and Challenges for Feminism Now” Muse <span style="color: blue;"><span style="-webkit-background-clip: initial; -webkit-background-origin: initial; background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/esc_english_studies_in_canada/v031/31.2stone.html]]</span></span>) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In a chapter on "The Breaking Grounds"…</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;"> action against the material and discursive complexities of sex </span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Reducing Military presence alone doesn’t solve—we must prioritize an understanding of masculinity and femininity to truly demilitarize and break the cycle of militarization and patriarchal attitudes globally </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Enloe 93</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Cynthia, Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley “The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of the Cold War”)</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">It is a misplaced hope. For… partners in a postCold War dance. </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Intervening at the site of military prostitution allows us to globally challenge the masculine international order as a whole </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Enloe 93</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Cynthia, Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley “The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of the Cold War”)</span>

__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">It's true that in international politics… have scarcely begun to fathom</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Our challenge to patriarchy can fundamentally transform the international system—extinction and all types violence are inevitable until this is done </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black;">Warren 94</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Professor of philosophy at Macalester College. “Ecological Feminism” p. 193-194) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In a similar vein, Paula Smithka…</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> __and__</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> itself </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">breeds violence</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="color: #1a1a18; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Georgia; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**The reason power relations are unequal is because Women’s calls for equality are met with ‘this is the wrong time’, this continually delays change and causes the impacts they isolate which are a product of the unequal power realtions**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Georgia;">**Enloe 93** </span>(Cynthia is a Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley, “Bananas, Beaches and Bases”, p. 61-64/JD)


Nationalism has provided...to-state negotiation.</span>






<span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Georgia; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence and bases from South Korea**</span>
=Negative= 
Consult NATO

Security l
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]