Aff Cites: brcanniff [at] aol [dot] com
Neg Cites: hosford [dot] lukas [at] gmail [dot] com
[[toc]]
=Cards you want= 
**New Khalilzad Card:**
**Heg good – nuke war**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rosenbaum, ‘11</span>__** – journalist, author, and historian (Ron, 3/2/11, //How The End Begins: The Road To A Nuclear World War III//, http://www.npr.org/2011/03/02/134203232/Ron-Rosenbaum-World-On-The-Brink-Of-World-War-III, date of access: 3/5/11 LH) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">What the very senior minister was describing was perhaps the most perilous — and emblematic — crisis of the second nuclear age thus far: it is a new world in which the bipolar "stability" of the "balance of terror" has degenerated into </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">a chaotic state of multipolar nuclear powers</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> with less control and less restraint and a greater chance of </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">touch</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ing </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">off a regional nuclear war that could escalate to global scale</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Nuclear proliferation scholar Benjamin Frankel tells us </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> "inherent </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">complexity" of the</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> new </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">nuclear age "dooms multipolar systems to instability making them susceptible to</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> crisis and </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">war</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">." "The world has arrived at a nuclear tipping point," a Carnegie Endowment for International Peace study warned. "</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We are at the tipping point</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">," former Senator Sam Nunn, co-founder of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, has said, "and we are headed in the wrong direction." "</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> current global </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">nuclear order</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">," declared Harvard's Graham Allison, "</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">is extremely fragile</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">." Already India and Pakistan nearly used their nuclear arsenals against each other in 1999 and 2002. That was still bipolar. The Syria raid, however, was the most dramatic embodiment of the difference between the bipolar Cold War type of nuclear war close calls, and the new type of </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">multipolar chain reactions</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">could reach critical mass</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in our new nuclear age. </span>


**New Thayer Card:**
**Heg good – Liberal order**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background: yellow;">Zhang and Shi, ‘</span>__****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">11</span>__** – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Washington, D.C.; **Lin Shi is from Columbia University. She also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. (1/22/11, //America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry//, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/ LH) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This does not</span>__ necessarily __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">mean that the US is in systemic decline</span>__, but it encompasses a trend that appears to be negative and perhaps alarming. Although __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the US still possesses incomparable military prowess and its economy remains the world’s largest, the once seemingly indomitable chasm that separated America from anyone else is narrowing</span>__. Thus, the global distribution of power is shifting, and the inevitable result will be a world that is less peaceful, liberal and prosperous, burdened by a dearth of effective conflict regulation. Over the past two decades, no other state has had the ability to seriously challenge the US military. Under these circumstances, motivated by both opportunity and fear, many actors have bandwagoned with US hegemony and accepted a subordinate role. Canada, most of Western Europe, India, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Singapore and the Philippines have all joined the US, creating a status quo that has tended to mute great power conflicts. However, __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">as the hegemony that drew</span>__ these __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">powers together withers</span>__, so will the pulling power behind the US alliance. __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The result will be an international order where power is</span>__ more __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">diffuse, American interests and influence can be</span>__ more __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">readily challenged, and conflicts or wars may be harder to avoid. As history attests, power decline</span>__ and redistribution __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">result in military confrontation</span>__. For example, in the late 19th century __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">America’s emergence as a regional power saw it launch its first overseas war of conquest</span>__ towards Spain. By the turn of the 20th century, accompanying the increase in US power and waning of British power, the American Navy had begun to challenge the notion that Britain ‘rules the waves.’ Such a notion would eventually see the US attain the status of sole guardians of the Western Hemisphere’s security to become the order-creating Leviathan shaping the international system with democracy and rule of law. __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Defining this US-centred system are three key characteristics: enforcement of property rights, constraints on the actions of powerful individuals and groups and</span>__ some degree of __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">equal opportunities</span>__ for broad segments of society. __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As a result</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> of</span>__ such __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">political stability, free markets, liberal trade and flexible financial mechanisms have appeared</span>__. And, with this, __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">many countries have sought opportunities to enter this system, proliferating stable and cooperative relations</span>__. However, what will happen to these advances as America’s influence declines? Given that America’s authority, although sullied at times, has benefited people across much of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Balkans, as well as parts of Africa and, quite extensively, Asia, the answer to this question could affect global society in a profoundly detrimental way. Public imagination and academia have anticipated that __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">a post-hegemonic world would return to the problems of</span>__ the 1930s: __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">regional blocs, trade conflicts and strategic rivalry</span>__. Furthermore, __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">multilateral institutions</span>__ such as the IMF, the World Bank or the WTO __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">might give way to regional organisations</span>__. For example, __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Europe and East Asia would</span>__ each __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">step forward to fill the vacuum left by Washington’s withering leadership to pursue their own visions of regional political and economic orders</span>__. Free markets would become more politicised — and, well, less free — and __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">major powers would compete for supremacy</span>__. Additionally, such power plays have historically possessed a zero-sum element. In the late 1960s and 1970s, US economic power declined relative to the rise of the Japanese and Western European economies, with the US dollar also becoming less attractive. And, as American power eroded, so did international regimes (such as the Bretton Woods System in 1973). __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A world without American hegemony is one where <span style="background: yellow;">great power wars re-emerge, the liberal international system is supplanted by an authoritarian one, and trade protectionism devolves into restrictive, anti-globalisation barriers</span></span>__. This, at least, is one possibility we can forecast in a future that will inevitably be devoid of unrivalled US primacy. 

=Affirmative= 
==**Afghanistan Aff**== 
===1acs -- Tournament-by-Tournament=== 
Chronological Order:
====Wake==== 

The United States federal government should reduce military presence in Afghanistan to levels consistent with a counterterrorism strategy.

Advantage 1 is the war—
We are losing in Afghanistan – five reasons.
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Nelson, ‘9</span>__ **– former director of a Joint … )**
**Q1: General McChrystal is expected … any “all-in” approach would entail.**

**<span style="color: black;">(and)</span>**<span style="color: black;"> Geography </span>
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">Stewart, ‘10</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> - Professor of the Practice … </span><span class="sifr-alternate"><span style="color: black;">”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, </span></span> [[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3]]<span style="color: black;">) </span> <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">The <span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">co</span>unter<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">in</span>surgency strategy and surge <span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">… </span></span></span><span style="color: black;">country and its political structures. (and)</span>**

Taliban adaptivity
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Dorronsoro, ‘09</span>__ **- visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (2/9/09, Gilles, The National Interest, “Going South in Afghanistan,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20794]]) <span class="Underline"> Afghanistan may be the right war, but … regions <span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">better</span> than any <span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">foreign forces</span> ever could.</span>**

A large footprint in Afghanistan destabilizes Pakistan and boosts terrorism
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Simon and Stevenson, ‘09</span>__ *** adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409)**
**Whatever US officials might concede… __increasing rather than decreasing pressure on India to act in the breach of American ineffectuality__.**

Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Pitt, ‘09</span>__**<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">-</span> //<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” </span>//<span style="color: black;">http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183</span>) But a suicide bomber in Pakistan … serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.**

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">Morgan, ‘9</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct) </span>**
**<span style="color: black;"> In a remarkable website on nuclear… </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">and suffering in a <span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">nuclear winter</span></span></span><span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">.</span>**

Timeframe is 2013
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">Allison, ‘10</span>__</span> **- Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th, <span style="color: black;">http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0</span>) In his first speech to the U.N. Security … <span class="underline0">determination to pursue it. </span>**

Loss means withdrawal is inevitable – it’s more stable if it occurs now rather than later
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Finel, ‘09</span>__**- Senior Fellow @ the American Security Project (8/20/09, Bernard, “An Alternative Strategy for Afghanistan,” ASP, <span style="color: black;">http://www.americansecurityproject.org/theflashpointblog/bernard-finel/2009/08/20/an-alternative-strategy-for-afghanistan/</span>) One of my great frustrations in … __<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">regime or a legitimate successor</span>__.**

Advantage 2 is Hegemony—
The first internal link is COIN—
The conflation of counterterrorism and counterinsurgency in afghanistan has required a substantial military footprint that undermines US influence and overextends and exhausts the US military.
<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">Boyle, ‘10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span> Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” <span style="color: black;">http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract</span>) __This episode indicates the … <span class="Underline">insurgencies as the incubators of future terrorist threats</span>__.**

Just the application of counterinsurgency doctrine in Afghanistan will overstretch the military
__Dorronsoro, ‘10__ **- Visiting Scholar @ Carnegie (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” May 24th, Carnegie, <span style="color: black;">http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863</span>) <span class="underline0">The coalition's strategy in … <span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">would overstretch the U.S. military</span>.</span>**

Next is Credibility—
The lack of a coherent policy makes the collapse of credibility inevitable.
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Stewart, ‘09</span>__ **- Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]]) __<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">The best Afghan policy would be </span>____…__ in the long-term, less will be more.**

Obama’s July 2011 withdrawal date is tenuous at best – only small numbers will leave
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">CBS, 6/24</span>__ **(Brian Montopoli, 6/24/10, " July 2011 Deadline for Afghanistan Troop Withdrawal: Politics Over Policy? ", [[http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-503544_162-20008781-503544.html]]) When President __Obama announced__ … for the White House not to make at least some concessions to their deadline.**

The announcement destroyed the perception of U.S. commitment to Afghanistan
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Rubin, ‘10</span>__ **– resident scholar at the <span style="color: black;">American Enterprise Institute</span>; senior lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School's Center for Civil-Military Relations; and a senior editor of the //<span style="color: black;">Middle East Quarterly</span>//. (Michael, Public Square, 3/8, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” [[http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline]]) It is true, as Schlesinger …. __<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Pakistan, Iran, and even Russia</span>__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">.</span>**

The plan solves – reducing to a counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence, and prevents vacillations between engagement and isolationism
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Stewart, ‘09</span>__ **[Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]])] __<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">The best Afghan policy would be to </span>____…__period. In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.**

Obama will sell the plan as a drawdown to a lighter but permanent commitment to Afghanistan – this resolves confusion over the withdrawal deadline and restores US credibility
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; color: black;">Stewart, ‘10</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “</span><span class="sifr-alternate"><span style="color: black;">Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, </span></span>[[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3]]<span style="color: black;">) </span> <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">But this moderate tone gains … in Afghanistan but a much greater focus on Kashmir</span></span><span style="color: black;">.1 </span>**

The alternative to U.S. hegemony is a apolarity and global nuclear wars
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Ferguson, ‘04</span>__ **Niall Ferguson, July/August 2004 “A World Without Power,” FOREIGN POLICY Issue 143**
**<span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">So what is left?</span></span> <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Waning empires. Religious … from such a not-so-new world disorder</span></span><span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">.</span>**

American primacy is vital to accessing every major impact—the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Kagan, ‘07</span>__ **[Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History” //Policy Review,// [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]] <span class="Style1CharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This is a good thing, and it should continue to be a … </span></span>and global involvement will provide an easier path.**

Heg key to de-escalate conflict and prevent great power war – multiple internal links
__<span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Thayer, ’06</span>__ **– professor of Political Science at Baylor University (Bradley A., November/December, “In Defense of Primacy,” NATIONAL INTEREST Issue 86)**
**<span class="UnderlineChar">THROUGHOUT HISTORY, <span style="background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">peace and stability have </span>…missions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg</span><span class="Underline">.</span>**

====**<span class="Underline">New Trier</span>**==== 
The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence in Afghanistan.

Contention 1 is the Soviet nightmare—
Russia is preparing for war—18 warrants
__Nyquist, ‘01__ **– Former Contractor in Soviet/Russian Analysis Group for U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, Former Ph.D. Student at UC-Irvine in Political Sociology, and widely syndicated columnist and published author (JR, War Preps, http://www.jrnyquist.com/war_preps.htm LH)**
**Moscow has outfitted … and nuclear weapons into the U.S.**

Drawdown is perceived by Russia as regrouping to contain them – the plan is the key factor to prevent expansionism – the timeframe is the end of the year
__Steff, ‘10__ **– Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm)**
**Well 2010 will be a period … the US remains impossible.**

U.S. focus on the Islamic world prevents any possible prevention of Russian expansionism
__Kabalan 6/25__ **/10 (Marwan Al, Professor of Political Science and Media at Damascus University, “Russia is reasserting its influence”, http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/russia-is-reasserting-its-influence-1.645812)**
**The US has always been … them adopt a more pragmatic approach.**

No risk of offense—Russian relations are unsustainable—11 reasons.
__Suslov, ’05__ **– Deputy Director for Research at the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy (Dmitry V., 28 February 2005, US-Russia Relations Saved for Now, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/us-russia-relations-saved-now LH)**
**The most serious reason … in the majority of Russia's troubles.**

Russian expansionism will lead to an invasion of the Caucasus region
__Kvelashvili, ’10__ **– analyst for the Jamestown Foundation's Eurasia Daily Monitor (Giorgi, February 23, 2010. Russia’s Ursine Embrace of Georgia’s Abkhazia Province: Ongoing Annexation with Larger Geostrategic Consequences. http://jamestownfoundation.blogspot.com/2010/02/russias-ursine-embrace-of-georgias.html)**
**On February 16, the Russians … but the United States and the West as well.**

That would draw in the US and ensure nuclear war
__Blank, 2k__ **– strategic Studies Institute's expert on the Soviet bloc and the post-Soviet world since 1989; former Associate Professor of Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine, Research, and Education, Maxwell Air Force Base; B.A. in History from the University of Pennsylvania, and a M.A. and Ph.D. in History from the University of Chicago (Stephen J., June 2000. “U.S. MILITARY ENGAGEMENT WITH TRANSCAUCASIA AND CENTRAL ASIA” http://www.bits.de/NRANEU/docs/Blank2000.pdf)**
**Russia’s drive for hegemony … of unilateral advantage and reintegration. 75**

We outweigh on magnitude
__Bostrom, ’02__ **– Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University (Nick, March, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards)**
**A much greater existential … risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.**

We outweigh on probability—comparative evidence
__Umland, ’09__ **– DAAD Lecturer, Shevchenko University (Andreas, “The Unpopular Prospect of World War III…The 20th Century is Not Over Yet,” HISTORY NEWS NETWORK, January 17, 2009, http://hnn.us/roundup/entries/60004.html)**
**That is because the …. -case scenario ever materializes.**

The threshold for war is low
__Smith, ’07__ **– Honorary research in the science and technology department of the university college London (P.D., Doomsday Men; The Real Dr. Strangelove and the Dream of the Superweapon, p. 433-435 JB)**
**Twenty years after the release of Dr. … of the end for life on earth.**

The timeframe is 30 minutes
__Helfand and Pastore, ‘09__ **– past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility (Ira and John, “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html)**
**President Obama and Russian … existed in 1995 remains in place today.**

Contention 2 is US-Indian Relations—
Relations high now—8 warrants
__Roemer, ’10__ **-- U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of India (Timothy J., Hindustan Times, August 17, 2010, We're in this together, http://www.hindustantimes.com/editorial-views-on/columnsothers/We-re-in-this-together/Article1-588203.aspx LH)**
**India is one of the … and peace in Asia and around the world.**

A quick troop decrease collapses US-India relations
__Kaplan, ‘10__ **(Robert, Senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, South Asia’s Geography of Conflict, www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf)**
**He or she who sits in Delhi with … United States deserts Afghanistan, it deserts India.**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The impact is an indo-sino nuclear war, the brink is now.</span>
__Sullivan & Mazza 9/27__ **/10 (Tim, research fellow and program manager @ American Enterprise Institute’s Center for Defense Studies, Michael, senior research associate, The Wall Street Journal, “The Next Nuclear Arms Race”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703384204575509163717438530.html)**
**India and Pakistan are the two countries most … for heightened insecurity.**

Contention 3—put away your disads—
We are losing in Afghanistan – five warrants.
__Nelson, ‘09__ **– former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)**
**Q1: General McChrystal is expected to request up to 40,000 … by a strategy that minimizes the loss of life and dizzying levels of expenditure that any “all-in” approach would entail.**

**(and)** Geography
__Stewart, ‘10__ **- Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14,**
**http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3)**
**The counterinsurgency strategy and surge in … of the country and its political structures.**

**(and)** Taliban adaptivity
__Dorronsoro, ‘09__ **- visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (2/9/09, Gilles, The National Interest, “Going South in Afghanistan,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20794)**
**Afghanistan may be the right war, but the … than any foreign forces ever could.**

No impact to Afghanistan—
a) No great powers would get drawn into a conflict
__Weitz, ‘6__ **(Richard, Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies at Hudson Institute, Washington Quarterly 29.3, Muse)**
**Central Asian security affairs have … ties traditionally have predominated.**

b) Too many alt causes to solve
__United Nations__ **10/14/**__08__ **US Fed News, “Build on Positive Trends to Reverse Deteriorating Situation in Afghanistan,” Lexis, 10/14/08**
**ZALMAY KHALILZAD (United States) said that, …would be sent to Afghanistan.**

c) SCO **(Shanghai Cooperation Organization)** checks escalation
__Maksutov, ‘06__ **(Ruslan, August, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization: A Central Asian Perspective, http://www.sipri.org/research/security/euroatlantic/sipri_prod_material/project_papers/ruslan_SCO)**
**As a starting point, it is fair to say … threats that now loom so large by comparison.**

No impact to terrorism—
a) Either terrorists aren’t a threat or it’s impossible to prevent them
__Mueller, ’06__ **(John Mueller, Ph.D., Professor, Political Science, Ohio State University, October 2006. [Foreign Affairs, Is There Still a Terrorist Threat?: The Myth of the Omnipresent Enemy, p. lexis]**
**It may well have become …image would suggest.**

b) Terrorists don’t want WMD
__Frost, ‘05__ **(Robin, teaches political science at Simon Fraser University, British Colombia, “Nuclear Terrorism after 9/11,” Adelphi Papers, December)**
**Psychotic terrorist killers. The overwhelming … capacity to do so is limited and unconvincing.**

c) Terrorists cannot build nuclear weapons
__Frost, ‘05__ **(Robin, teaches political science at Simon Fraser University, British Colombia, “Nuclear Terrorism after 9/11,” Adelphi Papers, December)**
**Do-it-yourself’ nuclear weapons. It is most… , and the process takes years.**

No impact to Pakistan—
a) Alt cause—structural poverty
__Goldberg, ’09__ **– writer-in-residence with the United Nations Foundation (Mark Leon, How Rural Poverty Fuels Instability in Pakistan, February 17, http://www.undispatch.com/node/7710 LH)**
**Discussions on the precarious situation in … the vacuum created by poverty and poor governance.**

b) Status quo solves
__APP, 10__ **(Associated Press of Pakistan, “WE NEED MORE MARKET ACCESS, ZARDARI TELLS HOLBROOKE”, Business Recorder, 6/24/2010, Lexis)**
**President Asif Ali Zardari on Wednesday … of peace and stability in the region," he said.**

====**MSU**==== 
President Obama should substantially reduce the United States military presence in Afghanistan. We reserve the right to clarify.

Conflict over Taiwan is inevitable now—expanded U.S. presence in Asia is key to deter war. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Maginnis</span>**, 8/6/**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">10</span> **– Maginnis, a Retired Army lieutenant colonel, a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television and a senior strategist with the U.S. Army (Robert, //Winning the New Cold War//, http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=38425) [[#_Toc278750139]]<span class="Underline">to advance its hegemonic ambitions. </span>**

Afghanistan presence takes US focus away from China
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kaplan, 9/26</span>__**/10 (Robert D., author of "Monsoon: The Indian Ocean and the Future of American Power." He is a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a national correspondent for the Atlantic magazine. “While U.S. is distracted, China develops sea power,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/09/24/AR2010092404767.html)**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">America's preoccupation </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… </span>__as a great power.**

Chinese expansionism leads to Taiwan war – Presence is key
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alagappa, ’03</span>__ **– Senior Fellow East-West Center PhD, International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy Tufts University (Muthia, “Asian security order: instrumental and normative features”, p. google books)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 115.5pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States has also … </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">isolating or provoking it</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>**

Global nuclear war
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hunkovic, ’09</span>__ **– American Military University (Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 84.75pt;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A war between China, Taiwan </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… </span>__will not be considered in this study. </span>**

Evaluate magnitude first – we also have a high probability anyway
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon, ’07</span>__ **– adjunct professor at John Hopkins and lecturer at Princeton and Bush (Michael, “A war like no other: the truth about China's challenge to America”, p. google books)**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">War between China and</span>__ __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">States real!)' would sit out a China-Taiwan war.</span>**

We outweigh on magnitude – comparative ev
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tucker, ’05</span>__ **– professor at Georgetown University (Nancy, “Dangerous strait: the U.S.--Taiwan--China crisis”, google books)**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">At the beginning of this new century, </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">nowhere is the … </span>__**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the assent of the people of Taiwan</span>__.**

Fast Timeframe – new economic developments
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Financial Times, 11/10</span>__**/10 (//Beijing’s elevated aspirations//, http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/1cfa57c4-ed03-11df-9912-00144feab49a.html#axzz16MJk0fHz LH) At the root of the anxieties is the … __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">and that is just a fact</span>__.”**

Chinese Nuclear Launch activates the Russian Early Warning System
__Kristensen, ’06__ **– director of the Nuclear Information Project at the** Federation of American Scientists (“Report: Chinese Nuclear Forces and U.S. Nuclear War”, http://www.nukestrat.com/china/chinareport.htm) 
<span style="tab-stops: 131.25pt center 3.75in;">In Chapter 2 we quoted a range … __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">would require a range exceeding 10,560 miles</span>__ (17,000 km). </span>

**Accidental launch—triggers a full scale war**
**__Rosenberg, ’06__ –** San Francisco Gate (Eric, **“**Experts warn of an accidental atomic war / Nuclear missile modified for conventional attack on Iran could set off alarm in Russia”, http://articles.sfgate.com/2006-10-06/news/17316809_1_nuclear-missiles-norwegian-scientific-rocket-ballistic)
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Russian military officers might … under way or</span>__ __are <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">false alarms</span>.__

**//<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">That outweighs on magnitude </span>// //__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">Bostrom, ’02</span>__//**
//<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal;">– Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University (Nick, March, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards)</span>//
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A</span>__ __much <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">greater existential risk </span>… to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century__.

**The threshold for war is low**
**Smith, ’07** – Honorary research in the science and technology department of the university college London (P.D., //Doomsday Men; The Real Dr. Strangelove and the Dream of the Superweapon//, p. 433-435 JB)
<span style="tab-stops: 67.5pt;">Twenty years after the release of Dr. … </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt; padding: 0in;">end for life on earth</span>__**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Advantage two is Diplomacy—**
**Afghanistan stalemate limits Obama’s ability to reorient foreign policy towards effective diplomacy**
**Fernholz, ‘10** – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation (Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) Katulis = security policy analyst at the Center for American Progress
<span class="Underline">Obama's final decision in December … <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">any of his other initiatives</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span> </span>

**COIN is a vortex for US diplomacy – kills leverage**
**Haddick, ’10** – Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois (Robert, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25th, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex)
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Afghanistan is becoming a …</span> presumably considered and rejected. </span>

**COIN shreds foreign policy coherence—especially resources for diplomacy and climate change**
**Cohen, ‘09** (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html)
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 … agenda - and his presidency. </span></span>

**The ability to effectively deploy diplomatic assets is key to stop warming**
**Hague 9/27**/10 (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10)
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But I particularly wanted to make the point to … will determine our destiny for us. </span></span>

**Warming kills billions. Risks extinction.**
**Cummins and Allen ‘10** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)
<span style="tab-stops: 90.75pt;"><span class="Underline">The hour is late. Leading …"business as usual." </span></span>

**Cooperation ensures new weapons states and rising powers are stable—the impact is nuke war**
**Dyer, ‘04** - worked as a freelance journalist, columnist, broadcaster and lecturer on international affairs for more than 20 years, but he was originally trained as an historian. Born in Newfoundland, he received degrees from Canadian, American and British universities, finishing with a Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History from the University of London. [Gwynne, "The end of war," Toronto Star, 12/30, l/n]
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">War is deeply …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and solve the problem of war within the context of the existing state system.</span></span>

====**Blake**==== 
President Obama should substantially reduce the United States’ military presence in Afghanistan.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Russia </span>
Russia’s on the offensive—escalation is likely 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Umlanda, ’09</span> **– teaches within the Master in German and European Studies program at the Kyiv-Mohyla Academy (Andreas, //Will there be a second Crimean war//, http://www.globalpolitician.com/2561-crimea-russia) <span class="Underline">The August 2008 war in the … Crimean War could become reality. </span>**

Drawdown is perceived by Russia as regrouping to contain them – the plan is the key factor to prevent expansionism – the timeframe is before the beginning of the 2011 drawdown.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Steff, ‘10</span>__ **– Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm)**
**Well 2010 will be a period of consolidation for … between Iran and the US remains impossible.**

Signals of weakness cause a reinvasion of Georgia. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell</span>**, 7/6/**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">09</span> **– Co-Founder of the Center for European Policy Analysis, (A. Wess, //Stiffening the Russian Reset//, REALCLEARWORLD, http://realclearworld.com/articles/2009/07/06/stiffening_the_russia_reset_96881.html) <span style="tab-stops: 207.0pt;"><span class="Underline">And herein lies the real danger … <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Crimea or</span> even <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">invading Georgia again</span></span>. </span></span>**

Causes nuclear escalation – we have the higher probability
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rozoff</span>**, 2/27/**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">09</span> **– frequent contributor to Global Research (Rick, //Baltic Sea: Flash Point For NATO-Russia Conflict//, Feb 27, 2009, http://groups.yahoo.com/group/stopnato/message/37592) <span style="tab-stops: 112.5pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In</span> such <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">an environment of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">international <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">…. That</span> area <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">is the Baltic Sea region</span></span>.</span> </span>**

//<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">We outweigh on magnitude</span>//
//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">Bostrom, ’02</span>__// **//<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal;">– Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University (Nick, March, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards)</span>// __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A much greater existential risk </span>____… in the 21st century__.**

The threshold for war is low
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Smith, ’07</span> **– Honorary research in the science and technology department of the university college London (P.D., //Doomsday Men; The Real Dr. Strangelove and the Dream of the Superweapon//, p. 433-435 JB) <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Twenty years after the release of Dr… </span>**
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt; padding: 0in;"> of the end for life on earth</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

Withdraw from Afghanistan is inevitable—either of our own accord or because Russia forces us out. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist, ’10</span> **– Former Contractor in Soviet/Russian Analysis Group for U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, Former Ph.D. Student at UC-Irvine in Political Sociology, and widely syndicated columnist and published author (JR, //An Unkind Cut//, Weekly Column Published: 4.09.2010, [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2010/0409.html]] LH) <span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">According to a news article by Simon Shuster, "…</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Americans out of their base</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">? </span></span>**

Contention 2 is Legitimacy—
Material collapse of hegemony is inevitable 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Layne and Schwarz</span> **9/29/**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">09</span> **– professor of government at Texas A&M and a consultant to the National Intelligence Council and Benjamin, literary and national editor of the Atlantic (Christopher, //Twilight of Pax Americana//, http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/commentary/la-oe-schwarz29-2009sep29,0,4375015.story) <span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The international order that emerged after World …to a new constellation of world powers. </span></span>**

We’re losing Afghanistan – six reasons
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Peña, ‘10</span> **– Senior Fellow @ The Independent Institute; Senior Fellow with the Coalition for a Realistic Foreign Policy, former Senior Fellow with the George Washington University Homeland Security Policy Institute & Former Director of Defense Policy Studies @ Cato Institute; Adviser to the Straus Military Reform Project; Analyst for MSNBC television; holds an M.A. in Security Studies from George Washington University (Charles, 05/23/10, //Why We Can’t Win in Afghanistan//, Antiwar.com, http://original.antiwar.com/pena/2010/05/23/why-we-cant-win-in-afghanistan/print/) <span style="tab-stops: 124.5pt;"><span class="Underline">First and foremost, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">we don’t have … a </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">completely <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">new pattern emerges</span></span>. </span></span>**

Anti-Americanism is growing—9 reasons
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AP, 11/21</span>__**/10 (//Afghans losing patience in war//, <span style="color: black;">http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5iw6AX4QMzl7</span> oIhETrqXBzW4PQy6Q?docId=578244cf5b29452bbc170915f4a573ed LH) <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The reasons for Afghan patience running … about civilians killed by insurgents. </span>**

Karzai is corrupt and uncooperative – prefer top level government documents and the ambassador.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">CSM, 11/29</span>__**/10 – Staff Writer (Ben Arnoldy) @ The Christian Science Monitor (//WikiLeaks fallout reveals more cracks in Afghan war strategy//, http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Asia-South-Central/2010/1129/WikiLeaks-fallout-reveals-more-cracks-in-Afghan-war-strategy LH) <span style="margin-left: .25in; tab-stops: 368.25pt;">//*Karl Eikenberry is the U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan & Military commander in Afghanistan from 05-07// </span> <span style="tab-stops: 368.25pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The latest WikiLeaks revelations</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> corrupt government</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.” </span></span>**

Statistical models prove – large footprint strategies inevitably fail
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Greig and Enterline, ‘09</span> **– associate professors of political science at the University of North Texas and research associates at the Castleberry Peace Institute (J. Michael and Andrew, “No Good Choices,” 11/11, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/11/11/no_good_choices)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 99.0pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We used forecasts from statistical …</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Afghanistan have been around for nearly a decade</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span> </span>**

That undermines our leadership 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Innocent and Carpenter, ‘09</span> **(Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> and undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

Withdrawal from Afghanistan allows the US to recapture international legitimacy 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Haddick, ‘10</span> **(Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex)**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Afghanistan is becoming a …</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> considered and rejected.</span> </span>**

Building hegemony with institutional legitimacy means the world order outlasts US material decline – the alternative is great power conflict 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah, ‘09</span> **(Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, //The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11,// http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf) <span class="Underline">I see a multi-polar world as one being … predominance in world affairs.”60</span>**

Hegemony through legitimacy is good
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah, ‘09</span> **(Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 30.75pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A final major gain to the United States … expressed in a specific individual-in a</span></span></span>**

====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Lexington</span>**==== 
**<span style="tab-stops: 30.75pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Replaced Umlanda with: </span></span></span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Russia is preparing for war</span>
Whitney 1/5/**11 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Mike, “US- NATO Missile Deployments directed against Russia: Putin Prepares For War,” //Global Research,// </span>__<span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=22650</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">)</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The clash in South Ossetia </span>____<span style="color: black;">… breaks out, Putin will be ready</span>__<span style="color: black;">. Russia is fortunate to have such a leader. Added: </span>**

5 more warrants.
<span style="color: black;">Brookes, ’09</span> **<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">– Senior Fellow, National Security Affairs and Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies @ the Heritage foundation (Peter, June 9, //The Bear Is Back: We Face Increasing Challenges From a Resurgent Russia//, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2009/06/The-Bear-Is-Back-We-face-increasing-challenges-from-a-resurgent-Russia<span class="Underline"> LH) </span></span> <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">After years of abject neglect …</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> the growth in its military budget and activities, Russia wields another big club as well. </span></span>**

A large military preoccupation in Eurasia ensures Russian expansionism – it’s the key factor
__<span style="color: black;">Stratfor</span>__ **<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">3/8/</span>**__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__ **<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">– STRATFOR Global Intelligence think tank http://russiaotherpointsofview.typepad.com/files/russia_influence_intro_stratfor.pdf </span> __<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">While Russia reconsolidated …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Afghanistan or its standoff with Iran?</span>**

====**Emory**==== 

President Obama should substantially reduce the United States’ military presence in Afghanistan.

Contention 1 is Russia –
<span style="color: black;">Russia is preparing for war </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Whitney 1/5</span> /**11 (Mike, “<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">US- NATO Missile Deployments directed against Russia: Putin Prepares For War,” //Global Research,// </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=22650) </span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The clash in South Ossetia </span>____<span style="color: black;">…</span>__<span style="color: black;"> is fortunate to have such a leader. </span>**

<span style="color: black;">5 more warrants. </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brookes, ’09</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – Senior Fellow, National Security Affairs and Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies @ the Heritage foundation (Peter, June 9, //The Bear Is Back: We Face Increasing Challenges From a Resurgent Russia//, http://www.heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2009/06/The-Bear-Is-Back-We-face-increasing-challenges-from-a-resurgent-Russia<span class="Underline"> LH) </span></span> <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">After years of abject neglect … another big club as well. </span></span>**

Drawdown is perceived by Russia as regrouping to contain them – the timeframe is before the beginning of the drawdown in July.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Steff, ‘10</span>__ **– Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm)**
**Well 2010 will be a period of … between Iran and the US remains impossible.**

Signals of weakness cause a reinvasion of Georgia. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell</span>**, 7/6/**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">09</span> **– Co-Founder of the Center for European Policy Analysis, (A. Wess, //Stiffening the Russian Reset//, REALCLEARWORLD, http://realclearworld.com/articles/2009/07/06/stiffening_the_russia_reset_96881.html) <span style="tab-stops: 207.0pt;"><span class="Underline">And herein lies the real danger …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> or</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> even <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">invading Georgia again</span></span>. </span></span>**

Causes nuclear escalation – high probability
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rozoff</span>**, 2/27/**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">09</span> **– frequent contributor to Global Research (Rick, //Baltic Sea: Flash Point For NATO-Russia Conflict//, Feb 27, 2009, http://groups.yahoo.com/group/stopnato/message/37592) <span style="tab-stops: 112.5pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">In</span> such <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">an environment of </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">international … area <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">is the Baltic Sea region</span></span>.</span> </span>**

//<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">We outweigh on magnitude</span>//
//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">Bostrom, ’02</span>__// **//<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal;">– Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University (Nick, March, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards)</span>// __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A much greater existential risk </span>____… encounter in the 21st century__.**

The threshold for war is low
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Smith, ’07</span> **– Honorary research in the science and technology department of the university college London (P.D., //Doomsday Men; The Real Dr. Strangelove and the Dream of the Superweapon//, p. 433-435 JB) <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Twenty years after the release of Dr. … </span>**
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 14pt; padding: 0in;"> of the end for life on earth</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

Withdraw from Afghanistan is inevitable—either of our own accord or because Russia forces us out. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nyquist, ’10</span> **– Former Contractor in Soviet/Russian Analysis Group for U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, Former Ph.D. Student at UC-Irvine in Political Sociology, and widely syndicated columnist and published author (JR, //An Unkind Cut//, Weekly Column Published: 4.09.2010, [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2010/0409.html]] LH) <span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">According to a news article by Simon …</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> Americans out of their base</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">? </span></span>**

Contention 2 is Legitimacy –
US primacy is in decline – legitimacy is the only thing preserving the world order – deescalates conflict.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edelman, 1/25</span>__**/11 – director of the foreign policy initiative (Eric, //The time to debate America's strategy for the new century is now, says FPI Director Eric Edelman//, http://www.foreignpolicyi.org/content/time-debate-americas-strategy-new-century-now-says-fpi-director-eric-edelman LH) Like clockwork, at the end of … progressive national “reform” agenda.**

We’re losing the war – 5 warrants
**<span style="margin-left: .25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Theros and Rosen, 1/20</span>__/11 – *Marika Theros, research officer at LSE Global Governance where she coordinates the research programme on Afghanistan; Nir Rosen, freelance writer, photographer and film-maker who has worked in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan (//Afghanistan: losing the Afghan people//, http://www.presstv.ir/usdetail/161092.html LH) </span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This unfolding </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">narrative of progress</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> simply </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… not just for their own strategic interests</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

**None of their COIN good offense applies – we’re shifting toward population destruction, not protection**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hallinan, 1/14</span>__/11 – columnist for Foreign Policy In Focus (Conn, //Afghanistan: Why pursue a losing strategy?//, [[http://peoplesworld.org/afghanistan-why-pursue-a-losing-strategy/]] LH) <span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">In spite of a White House declaration that "… leading Pakistan politician Mushahid Hussain. </span>**

**We have 3 internal links –**
**1) Obama’s indecisiveness**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bacevich, 10/5</span>__/10 – Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University (Andrew J., “Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439) <span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">Bourne thereby identified a … find himself soon thereafter seeking new employment. </span>**

**2) Loss kills legitimacy**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Raja, 1/22</span>__/11 – defence and political analyst (Asif Haroon, //The US must solve Kashmir tangle before departure//, http://www.asiantribune.com/news/2011/01/21/us-must-solve-kashmir-tangle-departure LH) <span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">None can deny that as against …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> will render them more vulnerable</span>__. </span>**

**3) COIN causes militarized diplomacy.**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Williams, 1/24</span>__/11 – reports and produces stories for The Environment Report (Rebecca, A House Divided on Diplomacy and Foreign Aid, http://thewillandthewallet.org/2011/01/24/a-house-divided-on-diplomacy-and-foreign-aid/ LH) <span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">The same is true with Afghanistan. __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">At … efforts to undermine extremism</span>__. </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Independently, Obama’s legitimacy solves global wars. </span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hanson, ‘09</span>__<span style="color: black;"> – Senior Fellow in Residence in Classics and Military History @ Hoover Institution, Stanford University [Dr. Victor Davis Hanson, “Change, Weakness, Disaster, Obama: Answers from Victor Davis Hanson,” Interview with the Oregon Patriots, Resistnet.com, December 7, 2009 at 3:52pm, pg. [[http://www.resistnet.com/group/oregon/forum/topics/change-weakness-disaster-obama/showLastReply]].) </span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">BC:</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Are we currently sending …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and now no one quite knows whom it will bite or when. </span>**

**<span class="Underline">(and) </span> Building legitimacy means the world order outlasts U.S. – the alternative is great power conflict.**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah, ‘09</span> (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, //The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11,// http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf) <span class="Underline">I see a multi-polar world as one … predominance in world affairs.”60 </span>**

**Hegemony through legitimacy is good**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah, ‘09</span> (Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf) <span style="tab-stops: 30.75pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A final major gain to the United States … of international security.57</span></span></span>**

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hoflo</span>==== 

President Obama should substantially reduce the United States’ military presence in Afghanistan. 


**Contention 1 is the status quo –**
**We’re losing the war – 5 warrants**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Theros and Rosen, 1/20</span>__**/11 – *Marika Theros, research officer at LSE Global Governance where she coordinates the research programme on Afghanistan; **Nir Rosen, freelance writer, photographer and film-maker who has worked in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan (//Afghanistan: losing the Afghan people//, http://www.presstv.ir/usdetail/161092.html LH)** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This unfolding </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">narrative of progress</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> just for their own strategic interests</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

Six more reasons 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Peña, ‘10</span> **– Senior Fellow @ The Independent Institute; Senior Fellow with the Coalition for a Realistic Foreign Policy, former Senior Fellow with the George Washington University Homeland Security Policy Institute & Former Director of Defense Policy Studies @ Cato Institute; Adviser to the Straus Military Reform Project; Analyst for MSNBC television; holds an M.A. in Security Studies from George Washington University (Charles, 05/23/10, //Why We Can’t Win in Afghanistan//, Antiwar.com, http://original.antiwar.com/pena/2010/05/23/why-we-cant-win-in-afghanistan/print/) <span style="tab-stops: 124.5pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">First and foremost, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">we don’t have … </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">completely <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">new pattern emerges</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span> </span>**


Anti-Americanism is growing—9 reasons 
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">AP, 11/21</span>__**/10 (//Afghans losing patience in war//, <span style="color: black;">http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5iw6AX4QMzl7</span> oIhETrqXBzW4PQy6Q?docId=578244cf5b29452bbc170915f4a573ed LH)**
**The reasons for Afghan patience running … started sending out news releases about civilians killed by insurgents.**

Contention 2 is Legitimacy – 
US primacy is in decline – legitimacy is the only thing preserving the world order – deescalates conflict. 
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Edelman, 1/25</span>__**/11 – director of the foreign policy initiative (Eric, //The time to debate America's strategy for the new century is now, says FPI Director Eric Edelman//, http://www.foreignpolicyi.org/content/time-debate-americas-strategy-new-century-now-says-fpi-director-eric-edelman LH)**
**Like clockwork, at the end of … national “reform” agenda.**

2 internal links – 
1) Obama’s indecisiveness 
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bacevich, 10/5</span>__**/10 – Professor of History and International Relations at Boston University, graduated from West Point, former Colonel in the United States Army, holds a Ph.D. in American Diplomatic History from Princeton University (Andrew J., “Obama Must Defy His Generals,” The New Republic, October 5th, Available Online at http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=130346439) <span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">Bourne thereby identified a central truth of …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> king is likely to find himself soon thereafter seeking new employment.</span> </span>**

2) Loss kills legitimacy
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Raja, 1/22</span>__**/11 – defence and political analyst (Asif Haroon, //The US must solve Kashmir tangle before departure//, http://www.asiantribune.com/news/2011/01/21/us-must-solve-kashmir-tangle-departure LH) <span style="tab-stops: 155.25pt;">None can deny that as against brilliant …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> them more vulnerable</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span> </span>**

<span style="color: black;">Independently, Obama’s legitimacy solves global wars. </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hanson, ‘09</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> – Senior Fellow in Residence in Classics and Military History @ Hoover Institution, Stanford University [Dr. Victor Davis Hanson, “Change, Weakness, Disaster, Obama: Answers from Victor Davis Hanson,” Interview with the Oregon Patriots, Resistnet.com, December 7, 2009 at 3:52pm, pg. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.resistnet.com/group/oregon/forum/topics/change-weakness-disaster-obama/showLastReply]]</span>.) </span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">BC:</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Are we currently sending a …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> knows whom it will bite or when. </span> <span class="Underline">(and) </span>**

Building legitimacy means the world order outlasts U.S. – the alternative is great power conflict. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah, ‘09</span> **(Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, //The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11,// http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)**
**<span class="Underline">I see a multi-polar world as one being … predominance in world affairs.”60 </span>**

Hegemony through legitimacy is good 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kromah, ‘09</span> **(Lamii Moivi Kromah, Department of International Relations University of the Witwatersrand, February 2009, “The Institutional Nature of U.S. Hegemony: Post 9/11”, http://wiredspace.wits.ac.za/bitstream/handle/10539/7301/MARR%2009.pdf)**
**<span style="tab-stops: 30.75pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A final major gain to the United States … measure of international security.57 </span></span></span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Contention 3 is China – </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">China is rising now because of Afghanistan, risking catastrophic miscalculation </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Paal, 11/2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">/10 (Douglas H. Paal, vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, served as vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase International and as unofficial U.S. representative to Taiwan as director of the American Institute in Taiwan, was on the National Security Council staffs of Presidents Reagan and George H. W. Bush as director of Asian Affairs, and then as senior director and special assistant to the President, held positions in the policy planning staff at the State Department, as a senior analyst for the CIA, and at U.S. Embassies in Singapore and Beijing, studied at Brown and Harvard Universities, “China: Actions Belie Rhetoric,” 11/2/10) http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=41882 </span>**
**<span style="tab-stops: .25in .5in .75in 1.0in 1.25in 1.5in 1.75in 2.0in 2.25in 2.5in 2.75in 3.0in 3.25in 3.5in 3.75in 4.0in 4.25in 4.5in 4.75in 5.0in 5.25in 5.5in 5.75in 6.0in 6.25in 6.5in 6.75in 7.0in 7.25in;"><span class="UnderlineA"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">A recent senior Chinese official … e</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">stimate the correlation of forces</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">. </span></span></span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Overstretch because of Afghanistan risks miscalc </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gordon, ‘07</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> – chief military correspondent for the New York Times (Michael, Survival, Break Point? Iraq and America’s Military Forces, </span><span class="Hyperlink1">[[http://www.journalsonline.tandf.co.uk/media/e2wquwrwth0v8u1trg3h/contributions/m/7/6/7/m76738823338363h.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">) </span> <span style="tab-stops: .25in .5in .75in 1.0in 1.25in 1.5in 1.75in 2.0in 2.25in 2.5in 2.75in 3.0in 3.25in 3.5in 3.75in 4.0in 4.25in 4.5in 4.75in 5.0in 5.25in 5.5in 5.75in 6.0in 6.25in 6.5in 6.75in 7.0in 7.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">A greater worry has been the …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> to other contingencies</span>__ </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Unchecked Chinese rise causes global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Walton, ‘07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> – C. Dale Walton, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, 2007, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49 </span>**
**<span style="tab-stops: .25in .5in .75in 1.0in 1.25in 1.5in 1.75in 2.0in 2.25in 2.5in 2.75in 3.0in 3.25in 3.5in 3.75in 4.0in 4.25in 4.5in 4.75in 5.0in 5.25in 5.5in 5.75in 6.0in 6.25in 6.5in 6.75in 7.0in 7.25in;"><span class="UnderlineA"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Obviously, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">it is of vital importance </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;"> close great power alliances.</span></span> </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Deterrence is key to prevent a Taiwan war </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alagappa, ’03</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Senior Fellow East-West Center PhD, International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy Tufts University (Muthia, “Asian security order: instrumental and normative features”, p. google books) </span>**
**<span style="tab-stops: 115.5pt 1.75in 2.0in 2.25in 2.5in 2.75in 3.0in 3.25in 3.5in 3.75in 4.0in 4.25in 4.5in 4.75in 5.0in 5.25in 5.5in 5.75in 6.0in 6.25in 6.5in 6.75in 7.0in 7.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States has also intervened in …</span>__<span style="background: yellow;"> it and trying to deter China without isolating or provoking it</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Global nuclear war </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hunkovic, ’09</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – American Military University (Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf) </span>**
**<span style="tab-stops: 84.75pt 1.25in 1.5in 1.75in 2.0in 2.25in 2.5in 2.75in 3.0in 3.25in 3.5in 3.75in 4.0in 4.25in 4.5in 4.75in 5.0in 5.25in 5.5in 5.75in 6.0in 6.25in 6.5in 6.75in 7.0in 7.25in;">__<span style="background: yellow;">A war between China, …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> be considered in this study. </span></span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Primacy in Asia is key to regional stability and stopping multiple sites for escalation </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Goh, ‘08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database) </span>**
**<span style="tab-stops: .25in .5in .75in 1.0in 1.25in 1.5in 1.75in 2.0in 2.25in 2.5in 2.75in 3.0in 3.25in 3.5in 3.75in 4.0in 4.25in 4.5in 4.75in 5.0in 5.25in 5.5in 5.75in 6.0in 6.25in 6.5in 6.75in 7.0in 7.25in;"><span class="UnderlineA"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">The centrality of these mutual processes … not doing so would appear to be much worse. </span></span> </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Nuke war </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in; tab-stops: .25in .5in .75in 1.0in 1.25in 1.5in 1.75in 2.0in 2.25in 2.5in 2.75in 3.0in 3.25in 3.5in 3.75in 4.0in 4.25in 4.5in 4.75in 5.0in 5.25in 5.5in 5.75in 6.0in 6.25in 6.5in 6.75in 7.0in 7.25in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Landay, 2k </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan S., national security and intelligence correspondent, March 10, 2k, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, Lexis)</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The 3,700-mile arc that … to the Commerce Department.</span>

===Combat Troops T 2ac=== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">“Presence” is only military aid, combat operations, and bases</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">American Observer,’09 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(quoting DOD Reports – “US military presence in foreign countries exceeds rest of world” – November 10, 2009 –http://inews6.americanobserver.net/articles/us-military-presence-foreign-countries-exceeds-rest-world)</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The United States has … U.S. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">soldiers are engaged in combat theaters</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">presence is just being in a country</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Jones, ‘95 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">– Major, USAF (Bud, Air & Space Power Journal 1995-1998 (there is no date listed in the archive but this article is listed under that date range), “The Objective is Influence, not Presence  or  Its Influence (not Presence) Stupid!,” http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/cc/influenc.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The objective of military presence … important objective: influence. </span>

**Overlimits**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">O’Hanlon, ‘08</span>** – senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a senior advisor to the Center for a New American Security (Michael, Unfinished Business: U.S. Overseas Military Presence in the 21st Century, June, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/reports/2008/06_military_ohanlon/06_military_ohanlon.pdf)
Today, __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span>__nited __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">S</span>__tates __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">has</span>__ … remains on a few key players.

**Better Limits**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Thomason, ’02</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – their author, Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis, (James, //Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD//, July, 2002 http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf )</span> <span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">This is generally consistent, …</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> and analytical groups; exchanges of military</span> </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Brightline </span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Keeting, ‘10 </span>__**– Associate Editor at Foreign Policy citing an Iraq combat veteran and the US Army public affairs office (Joshua, 8/3/10, “What’s the Difference between Combat and Non-combat troops?” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/08/03/what_s_the_difference_between_combat_and_noncombat_troops )
On Monday, U.S. President …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> be completely different</span>__."

===**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Khorasan PIC 2ac</span>**=== 

Khorasan is not the same region as Afghanistan
Encyclopedia Brittanica 10
<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Khorāsān</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">. (2010). In</span> //<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Encyclopædia Britannica</span>//<span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Retrieved October 03, 2010, from Encyclopædia Britannica Online:</span> [[http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/316850/Khorasan|**http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/316850/Khorasan**]]**
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Khorāsān</span>__ <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">,</span>**<span style="font-size: 9.0pt;"> also spelled</span> <span class="alternate"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-variant: small-caps;">…</span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> to the boundaries of India. </span>**

No Impact- thousands of authors and policy elites will still refer to the nation as Afghanistan, that is what their constitution says making the impacts inevitable, and US Code proves.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">US CODE, ‘10</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">UNITED STATES PUBLIC LAWS 111th Congress -- 1st Session (c) 2009, LEXIS-NEXIS, A DIVISION OF REED ELSEVIER INC. AND REED ELSEVIER PROPERTIES INC. PUBLIC LAW 111-84 [H.R. 2647] OCT. 28, 2009 NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010 111 P.L. 84; 123 Stat. 2190; 2009 Enacted H.R. 2647; 111 Enacted H.R. 2647 </span>
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Subtitle B--__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Matters Relating to</span>__ Iraq, __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Afghanistan</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">,</span> …__.__</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Sec. 1237. No permanent military bases in Afghanistan.</span>**

Perm do Both-
A. Words are instruments for political dialogue if they are allowed to be expressed in an authentic manner. Giving meaning to language can’t be done when one person defines words on behalf of others.
B. They don’t get solvency- liberation is only possible with a consistent effort, not a strategic discourse
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Freire in ‘70</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Paulo, Brazilian educator and influential theorist of critical pedagogy//, Pedagogy of the Opressed//, 1970) </span>**
__<span style="text-underline: thick;">If it is in speaking … together, to learn more than they now know</span>__**.**

<span style="color: black;">“Khorasan” is not a benign term – their PIC embraces a legacy of genocide perpetuated by Khorasani Turks and ignores that imperialism existed in the region long before Western interventions</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Sassani</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> 12/14/</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">08</span>__ **<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.0pt;">(Jaff, OpEdNews, “Turkey: Turkish Wars of Genocide,” http://www.opednews.com/articles/2/TURKEY-TURKISH-WARS-OF-GE-by-Jaff-Sassani-081210-863.html, jj)</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in;">Having received the permission of Sultan …</span>**
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;"> killed millions of people in the region</span>__ <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Attempts to censor language make the problem worse- the politically correct surface they create only makes violence easier to swallow. </span>
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Zizek in ‘99</span> <span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">(Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies (Ljubljana), //The Ticklish Subject// p. 253-4) </span>**
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Take politically correct …</span>__ __<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">in this very act of inflicting wounds on himself</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>**

<span style="color: black;">Turn- focusing solely on the language used to describe something masks the problem and makes it harder to confront</span>
<span style="color: black;"> __Meisner__</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">,</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">professor of environmental studies at York University</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">,</span> **<span style="color: black; font-size: 10.0pt;">19</span>**__<span style="color: black;">95</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Mark, “Resourcist Language: The Symbolic Enslavement of Nature”, Proceedings of the Conference on Communication and Our Environment, ed: David Sachsman, p. 242)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">Changing the language we use to …</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> or that it is deterministic.</span>

===<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Obama Good 2ac</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">link is inevitable </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bennett, 1/18</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">/11 – staffer at the Center for New American Security (John T., //Armed Services to Take ‘Wire Brush’ to Afghan Withdrawal Strategy//, [[http://www.cnas.org/node/5563]] LH) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">January 18, 2011 — </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">House <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Republicans will</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> closely </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> starting in July 2011,” the proposed plan states. </span>

<span style="tab-stops: 313.5pt;">**<span style="color: black;">plan is bipart </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; tab-stops: 313.5pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Innocent, ‘10</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;"> [Malou Innocent is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute, “Leaving Afghanistan moves beyond left vs. right” – Politico – March 10th – 2010 – [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0310/34158.html|__http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0310/34158.html__]]]</span> </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 313.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The resolution’s substance and timing …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> bringing this war to a close. </span>__ </span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;">No internal link</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;">—issues are compartmentalized </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Dickinson, 09</span>__** <span style="color: black;">– professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,”[[http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/]]) </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">As for Sotomayor, from here the path … be measured through legislative boxscores.\</span>

<span style="tab-stops: center 403.1pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;">Winners Win </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; tab-stops: center 403.1pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Mason, ‘10</span>__** <span style="color: black;">(Jeff, covers the White House for Reuters, covering Barack Obama 26 March, “Obama's health win could boost foreign policy”,[[http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/N26180856.htm]]) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: center 403.1pt;"><span style="color: black;">WASHINGTON, March 26 (Reuters) - President Barack</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Obama's domestic … closing the biggest deal you have going</span>__<span style="color: black;">."</span> </span>

**Gates shields the link.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ricks, ‘09</span>__** (Thomas E. Ricks, 4/3, a member of the Center for a New American Security, “Gates in Trouble with the GOP?”, The Foreign Policy Morning Brief, http://ricks.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/04/03/gates_in_trouble_with_gop) </span>
Until now, Defense Secretary Robert __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Gates</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> has …</span>__ will be crying, "Bobby, we hardly knew ye." 

**Political capital is resilient**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Melber, ‘08</span>__** – staff writer and political science bachelor (Ari, 11/08, http://www.thenation.com/blogs/notion/382337) </span>
Because now, Obama's team wants everyone to know. The … adviser to Hillary Clinton's campaign, raised that prospect in the article

===KORUS Bad 2ac=== 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">KORUS kills the auto industry </span>– turns econ</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">PR Newswire 12</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">/</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">9</span>__</span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">/10</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“USW Opposes Passage of Revised US-Korea Trade Agreement,” [[http://www.poten.com/NewsDetails.aspx?id=10843874]], jj) </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Last week's negotiations resulted …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> support, and we will oppose its passage.</span></span>


**KORUS leads to passage of CFTA and PFTA**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The Wall Street Journal 1/6</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">/11 (“U.S.-Seoul Trade Deal Can Boost Colombia Pact” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704415104576066133140466372.html) </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">WASHINGTON--</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-weight: normal;">The </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-weight: normal;">recent …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> pacts will be ready for ratification.</span></span>


**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">CFTA causes Colombian instability </span></span>**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Damme, ’10</span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> (Lauren, 8-2, New America Foundation, “The Colombia Free Trade Pact is Bad Policy,” http://www.newamerica.net/node/35106, jj) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is hard to know whether the …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> human and labor rights.</span>__


**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">That spills over regionally and undermines the war on drugs </span></span></span>**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Sweeney</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;"> ’99</span>__</span>** (John, //former Latin America Policy Analyst in The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis International Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation,// 3-26, Heritage Foundation, “Tread Cautiously in Colombia’s Civil War,” [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/1999/03/tread-cautiously-in-colombias-civil-war]], jj) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">The marriage of </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">communist </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">… in </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the illegal <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">narcotics trade</span>.</span></span></span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Manwaring ‘05</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, venezuela’s hugo chávez, bolivarian socialism, and asymmetric warfare, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Chávez also …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">endanger global security</span>____, peace, and prosperity.65__


**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">KORUS kills Canada’s economy </span></span>**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span class="cite">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Globe and Mail 12/7</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">/10</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Barrie McKenna, Greg Keenan, “U.S., “EU pacts with South Korea put pressure on Canadian exporters,” lexis, jj) </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-weight: normal;">Canadian companies </span>…</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of its own in the next few months.</span>


**That causes Quebec secessionism****.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Donald E. </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Nuechterlein</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, September 19</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">99</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. Rockefeller Research Scholar at the University of California, Berkeley. “CANADA DEBATES A VARIETY OF DOMESTIC ISSUES,” [[http://donaldnuechterlein.com/1999/canada.html]]. </span></span>
__Current opinion polls <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">in … if it separates</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Nuke war**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; padding: 0in;">N</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ew </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; padding: 0in;">W</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">orld </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; padding: 0in;">O</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">rder </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">I</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">ntelligence, May, </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">96’</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> http://www.survivalistskills.com/quebec.htm/ </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Lamont's forecasts, based … buffer", has ceased to exist.</span>


**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SKFTA encourages trade discrimination, making it net worse for free trade, and stunts South Korean economic growth </span></span>**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span class="cite">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Korea Times 12/12</span>__**/10</span> (“South Korea should boycott FTA with US, Chang says,” http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/biz/2010/12/123_77835.html, jj) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Chang Ha-joon, a best seller author …</span><span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-weight: normal;"> rate</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">,” Chang said in the report.</span>


**Extinction**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Copley News Service, ‘99</span>__</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">[Dec 1, LN] </span></span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">For decades, many … trade. They should be celebrating it. </span>__

===KORUS Bad 1ar=== 

**No impact – Japan will fill in for relations**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">David L.</span> **<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Steinberg</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, ‘</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">06</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> - Director of the Asian Studies Program @ Georgetown U. International Journal of Korean Studies, Fall/Winter 2006. "The U.S.-ROK Alliance: American Perspectives." </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">If we are to consider the …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> the Korean-U.S. relationship</span>____.____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">1</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">3</span>


**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Strong US-South Korea relations put the US and China on a collision course, destabilize Asia, and cause global great power wars - brink is now </span></span>**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">BBC, ‘10</span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific, 7-27, “Commentary warns US-South Korea drills could spark confrontation with China,” lexis, jj)</span> </span>
<span class="underline">A </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">four-day </span><span class="underline">US-ROK joint … is also a regional troublemaker</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**US-Sino cooperation key to solve terror, resource wars, warming, prolif and nuclear war**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Campbell</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">,</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;"> ‘08</span>__</span>** (Kurt, CEO of the Center for a New American Security, “U.S.-China Relations,” Statement before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, May 15, 2008, CQ Congressional Testimony, lexis) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet </span><span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Asia</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is not a theater of peace: …</span><span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;"> U.S.-Chinese cooperation</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

**US-China war causes extinction**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Straits Times, ’2k</span>__</span>** (“No one gains in war over Taiwan,” 6/25, lexis) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The high-intensity scenario …</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-weight: normal;"> sovereignty above everything else.</span></span>


**Asian wars go global and nuclear**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ogura and Oh, ’97</span>__</span>** (Toshimaru and Ingyu, Economic Professors, Monthly Review, April) </span>
<span class="underline">North Korea, South Korea, …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> a global conflagration.</span> </span>

==Pataphysics Aff -- TOC Rd. 4 & 5== 

**Scenario 1 is the Pornography of Information –**
<span style="tab-stops: 51.75pt;">**__Politics is dead__** **– the constant writing and rewriting of history and events ensures they lose all of their original meaning because all singularity of analysis is lost.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ’92</span>__** (Jean, //Pataphysics of Year 2000//, [online] LH) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Outside of this</span> gravitational pull which … or into the stereophony of information.

**The notion of establishing truth and reality in politics turns us into the agents of abstraction, destroying the potential for creative politics.**
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="CharacterStyle5">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Baudrillard, ‘88</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Jean, //The Ecstasy of Communication//, p. 15-24 LH) </span></span></span></span>
<span class="CharacterStyle5"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Private telematics: </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">each individual …</span>__</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;"> information</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">: this is obscene</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**This system produces totalitarianism as we are manipulated by elites**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hedges, ‘09</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – Thom interviews Chris Hedges (fifteen years as a war correspondent for the New York Times, author, senior fellow at The Nation Institute in New York City, Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, received the Amnesty International Global Award for Human Rights Journalism, taught at Columbia University, New York University and Princeton University, and is currently the F. Ross Johnson-Connaught Distinguished Visitor in American Studies at the Centre for the Study of the United States at The University of Toronto) about his book "Empire of Illusion", 21 July 2009, //Transcribed by Suzanne Roberts, Portland Psychology Clinic,// //<span style="font-style: normal;">http://www.thomhartmann.com/blog/2009/07/transcript-chris-hedges-empire-illusion-21-july-2009 MRL </span>//</span></span>
Thom: So great to have you here. In …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> driven by</span>__ __very <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">destructive forces</span>__**__<span style="background: yellow;">.</span>__**

**Scenario 2 is Security –**
**This excess of information and power installs a system of global security that preemptively turns everything is a plastic reflection of itself and the world is confined to failed policies.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ’94</span>__** (Jean, //Disneyworld Company//, [online] LH) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">But the Disney</span> enterprise …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> scene</span>__ [//hors-scene//], __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">to be obscene</span>__.

**That turns us into zombies – preventing us from living or dying**
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Baudrillard, ’93</span>__** <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(Jean, //Symbolic Exchange and Death//, p. 185-187) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pursued and censured everywhere, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">death </span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">… an end to political economy</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

**Such a system of global security invites its own destruction by creating a constant desire for terrorism – good and evil are inevitable – tipping the balance too far in one direction will invite destruction.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ’02</span>__** (Jean, //The Spirit of Terrorism//, p. 4-14 LH) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 113.25pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">All that has been said and written is …</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> a proportionate violence</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

**Scenario 3 is Creative Aesthetics –**
**The plan is an experiment – it produces certain modes of existing in the world through its very process.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baugh, 2k</span>** (Bruce, //Deleuze and Literature; Chapter 2: How Deleuze can help us make Literature work//, p. 35-36 LH) </span></span>
Deleuze and Guattari describe their … simply reading and interpreting it.

**This intensive experiment produces our life and worldview – we should seek to recreate this.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Colombat, 2k</span>** (AndreÂ Pierre, //Deleuze and Literature; Chapter 1: Deleuze and Signs//, p. 17-20 LH) </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in; tab-stops: 2.5in;"><span class="Underline">***Haecceity – denotes the discrete qualities, properties or characteristics of a thing which makes it a //particular// thing.** </span></span>
<span class="Underline">But this example of the two … or <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">unfolds our active `viewpoint'</span>.</span>

**Absent this recreation, political meaning and existence are reduced to mere reflection of seemingly greater politics.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cholodenko, ’08</span>** – is former Head of Department and Senior Lecturer in Film and Animation Studies in the Department of Art History and Film Studies at the University of Sydney, where he now holds the title of Honorary Associate; graduate of Harvard law school (Alan, //The Spectre in the Screen//, Animation Studies – Vol.3, 2008, http://journal.animationstudies.org/download/volume3/ASVol3Art6ACholodenko.pdf LH) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The screen is</span>, we would say, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span> of Death. The end… of the end…</span>

**Life is a performance – how you act matters as much as what comes out of it – the way the 1ac is oriented is a particular kind of refrain that is of the utmost importance.**
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pindar and Sutton, ‘2k</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">(Ian and Paul, //Introduction to The Three Ecologies//, p. 8-13 LH) </span></span>
__There are many refrains in … for accident and chance__.'15

**Scenario 4 is our Imaginary solution –**
**To counter the crushing power of information and security we need a creative phenomenon for a political strategy. In light of this necessity, we should affirm those actions which do not exist.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in; tab-stops: 381.75pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ’92</span>__** (Jean, //Rise Of The Void Towards The Periphery//, [online] LH) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Dissuasion is</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">a</span> rather particular form …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> that death has remained virtual</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**This imaginary strategy runs counter to the reactive form of politics that over-prescription of reality creates – we are the only ones who can develop a form of active and creative politics.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ‘96</span>** (Jean, //The Perfect Crime//, p. 102-104) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">It is not a question of defending …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> meaning</span> itself <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">cannot be resolved</span>.</span>

**Thus we offer our imaginary solution to an imaginary problem: The United States Congress should substantially reduce its police presence from Japan.**

===Topicality/Framework 2ac=== 

**__Precision__** **– the resolution doesn’t demand implementation – means the mandate of the plan is the only thing that matters in determining topicality.**
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Johnson, ‘03</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Charles W., <span style="color: black;">June 30 2003, </span>Parliamentarian—United States House of Representatives, <span style="color: black;">http://thomas.loc.gov/home/lawsmade.bysec/formsofaction.html) </span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in;">Joint resolutions may originate either in … are published in the Congressional Record.</span>

===Cede the Political 2ac=== 

**__Losers Win__** **– when politics is looming and universalized, it invites terroristic backlash, which prompts the whole system to commit suicide upon itself – politics must lose momentum before reaching critical mass, lest it collapse in upon itself, that’s the second contention.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in; tab-stops: 81.0pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ‘10</span>__** (Jean, //Carnival and Cannibal; Ventriloquous Evil//, p. 13-18 LH) </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is the whole paradox of power. </span>__We …__ I would say that all is not lost' (Elias Canetti).</span>

**__their links have no brink__** **– poly-sci and IR majors solve – empirically disproven.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Brown, ‘05</span>__** <span style="color: black;">(Wendy, Edgework: Critical Essays on Knowledge and Politics, Professor of Poli Sci, UC Berkeley)</span> </span>
<span style="color: black;">On the one hand, critical theory cannot …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> imaginative reach and vigor</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====--Boggs 2ac==== 

**Their Boggs evidence makes specific internal links to environmental destruction – they’re wrong about the direction of that internal link – more engagement destroys the environment.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__Baudrillard, ’07__** (Jean, International Journal of Baudrillard Studies; Volume 4, Number 2 (July, 2007), //Darwin’s Artificial Ancestors and the Terroristic Dream of the Transparency of the Good//, http://www.ubishops.ca/baudrillardstudies/vol4_2/v4-2-baudrillard.html#_edn2 LH) </span>
It seems that __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the more the </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… an anxious eye trained on its biospheric destiny</span>__. 

===Cps 2ac=== 
**__Perm do both__** **– only the perm can serve as a barrier against the poor politics of the CP**
<span style="margin-left: .25in; tab-stops: 81.0pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ’10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Jean, //Carnival and Cannibal; Ventriloquous Evil//, p. 70-73) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">IN THE PROMETHEAN PERSPECTIVE of unlimited growth, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is the intelligence of the mystery. </span></span>

**The Cp’s pragmatic solution can’t affirm non-meaning and gets coopted by the state**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Browne</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, </span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">‘95</span>__ (Harry, Former libertarian party candidate for President and Director of Public Policy for the DownsizeDC.org, //Why Government Doesn’t Work//, p. 20-21) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Government grows</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> also </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">because</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> government for their own ends</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

===Politics 2ac=== 
<span style="tab-stops: 342.75pt;">**We’ll bolster our no link arguments – politics are compartmentalized**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Dickinson, 09</span>__** <span style="color: black;">– professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,”[[http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/]]) </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">As for Sotomayor, from here the … through legislative boxscores. </span>

<span style="tab-stops: center 403.1pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;">Winners Win </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; tab-stops: center 403.1pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Mason, ‘10</span>__** <span style="color: black;">(Jeff, covers the White House for Reuters, covering Barack Obama 26 March, “Obama's health win could boost foreign policy”,[[http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/N26180856.htm]]) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: center 403.1pt;"><span style="color: black;">WASHINGTON, March 26 (Reuters) - President Barack</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Obama's … the biggest deal you have going</span>__<span style="color: black;">."</span> </span>

**Political capital is resilient**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Melber, ‘08</span>__** – staff writer and political science bachelor (Ari, 11/08, http://www.thenation.com/blogs/notion/382337) </span>
Because now, Obama's team … prospect in the article 

**Reject expert analysis**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Quirk, ‘10</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Paul J. 'THE TROUBLE WITH EXPERTS', Critical Review, 22: 4, 449 — 465, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/08913811.2010.541699) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In fact, apparently underlining … ultimately </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">competence. </span>__

**Gates shields the link.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ricks, ‘09</span>__** (Thomas E. Ricks, 4/3, a member of the Center for a New American Security, “Gates in Trouble with the GOP?”, The Foreign Policy Morning Brief, http://ricks.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/04/03/gates_in_trouble_with_gop) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Until now, Defense Secretary … be crying, "Bobby, we hardly knew yet."</span>

===Cap K 2ac=== 
**Double bind – either a) they link to our advantages because they attempt to create real affects in the world and try to remap our affirmative in terms of** […] **OR b) <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">perm do both</span> – that’s best because we embrace more imagination and non-reality, the aff is sufficient to create creative politics, but more wouldn’t hurt.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Adams, ’02</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> – Assistant Professor of English at University of Tulsa (Katherine, Hypatia, //At the Table with Arendt: Toward a Self-Interested Practice of Coalition Discourse//, Muse) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">As Anzaldúa and Friedman both … self-interested discourse at work. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;">Criticism of ideas is hopeless</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;"> – imagination is the only act that transforms itself more than we are capable of transforming it, </span>****<span style="color: black;">that’s our last contention</span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ‘05</span>** (Jean, //Intelligence of Evil or the Lucidity Pact//, p. 40-41) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The task of philosophy is … **is part of the object it reflects**</span>. </span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;">Perm do both speech acts</span>__****<span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;"> –</span>** **the only way to resist capitalism is to include the imaginary because capitalism is itself an imaginary idea.**
<span style="margin-left: .5in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">De Landa, ’97</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> (Manuel, Philosophy Professor, //A Thousand Years of Non-Linear History//, Cambridge University Press, 1997, p. 265-273)</span> </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We no longer believe in a …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">in even the humlest forms of matter-energy. </span>

**__<span style="color: black;">Link turn</span>__****<span style="color: black;"> – </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">b) To K capital creates a simulacrum which helps it maintain itself </span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Baudrillard, ‘06</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> SIMULACRA AND SIMULACRUM p15 </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">All that</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> capital asks of us</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> is</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> to take up according to symbolic law</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">c) Revolution binds us within the system it rebels against </span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Baudrillard, ‘01</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Jean, //Uncollected Baudrillard//, p. 67-68) </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Where to from here? Is there a … and these convulsions in the system of values. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">The criticism attempts to script the process of resistance and in doing so only reifies managerial control intrinsic to modernity and entrenches elite control </span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Winchock, ‘10</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Dylan. Professor of English at Binghamton University (SUNY). Rated 4.8/5 on “ratemyprof”. Also got bonus points for “Hotness”, Copyright 2010 by Dylan Winchock Sobriquet Magazine #66Volume 16, Number 5 http://www.sobriquetmagazine.com/winchock.html) </span></span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">modernists</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> continued to </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">look</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> … can explain how things do not always live up to revolutionary expectations. </span>

==**God Aff -- TOC Rd. 2**== 

**__Contention 1 – God Exists__**
**Cosmology proves**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ’10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain.. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The New Atheism and Five Arguments for God </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8088]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Everything that begins </span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">… and unimaginably powerful.</span>__</span>


**So does Fine tuning**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ’10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The New Atheism and Five Arguments for God </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8088]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Before we discuss this … argument based on fine-tuning: </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
**The Dawkins evidence they will read to answer this has false premises and is a logical fallacy**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ’07</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain.. (William Lane, No Date</span>, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"What do you think of Richard Dawkins' argument for atheism in The God Delusion?" [[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=5493]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">What does follow from the … represent an advance in simplicity, for whatever that is worth.</span>

**Value judgments**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kreeft and Tacelli, ‘94</span>__** – Professors of Philosophy at Boston College. (Peter and Ronald, 1994 //Handbook to Christian Apologetics Handbook of Christian Apologetics: Hundreds of Answers to Crucial Questions,// p. 54-55 JB) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We notice around us </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">things</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span>__ __of all perfections" -is God__ **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

**To win God Exists, we only have to win that it is __possible__ God exists.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ‘10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The New Atheism and Five Arguments for God </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8088]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Plantinga’s version is formulated in …</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> a maximally great being exists. </span>__</span>

**The Joshi evidence they will read is a logical fallacy**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig and Moreland, ’03</span>** – <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Research Professors of Philosophy at Talbot School of Theology in La Mirada, California. (William Lane, J.P. //Philosophical foundations for a Christian worldview// Ch. 27 </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bethinking.org/advanced/the-problem-of-evil.htm]]</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> JB)</span> </span>
**<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">*(1) and (2) = 1. An omnipotent, omnibenevolent God exists. and 2. Evil exists. </span></span></span>**
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But the crucial assumption behind … that the logical problem of evil has been solved.</span></span>

**<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Our interpretation is correct—multiple early and independent testimonies to the resurrection narrative make it acceptable by any objective historical analysis.</span>**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ’07</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain.. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Subject: Independent Sources for Jesus' Burial and Empty Tomb</span>// <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=7047]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">I'm glad to clarify this issue, Dave, … the cumulative case for these facts is very powerful, indeed.</span>

**Jesus’ ability to control nature proves**
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #2e2e2e;">Little, ‘88</span>__<span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8.0pt;"> – </span>**<span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8pt;">Until his death in 1975, Little was also associate professor of evangelism at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois.(Paul E. 1988. EveryStudent.org //Beyond Blind Faith// (adapted from //Know Why You Believe// by Little) //[[http://www.everystudent.com/features/faith.html]]// JB)</span> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Christ demonstrated a …</span>__ __will believe in Him__ </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">."</span>____<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">17</span>__

**So does his rise from the dead**
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #2e2e2e;">Little, ‘88</span>__** <span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8pt;">– Until his death in 1975, Little was also associate professor of evangelism at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois.(Paul E. 1988. EveryStudent.org //Beyond Blind Faith// (adapted from //Know Why You Believe// by Little) //[[http://www.everystudent.com/features/faith.html]]// JB) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Jesus' supreme credential </span>____<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> to others, have been poor deluded fools.</span></span>

**Contention 2 – our Non-Violent Paradigm**
**Those that live by the sword will die by the sword—allowing the US to retain its imperialist presence makes us all die on the inside.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy, ‘03</span>** – Nobel Peace Prize Nominee, Priest of the Eastern Rite (Byzantine) of the Catholic Church. He is the founder and the original director of The Program for the Study and Practice of Nonviolent Conflict Resolution at the University of Notre Dame. (Emmanuel Charles, //Christian Just War Theory: The Logic of Deceit// pg 4.6-4.8 JB) </span>
<span class="Underline">Anyone who kills …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> who rely on them for spiritual truth?</span></span>

**Our 1ac stands counter to an extremely corrupt spiritual ontology—rejecting that is a try or die effort to turn back a history of violence in the name of the lord.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy, ‘03</span>** – <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nobel Peace Prize Nominee, Priest of the Eastern Rite (Byzantine) of the Catholic Church. He is the founder and the original director of The Program for the Study and Practice of Nonviolent Conflict Resolution at the University of Notre Dame. (Emmanuel Charles, //Christian Just War Theory: The Logic of Deceit// pg 5.7-5.8 JB)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Up to this moment institutional … and Jesus’ nonviolent monotheism.</span>

**We should stop trying to secure the world with our military project and instead lower our defenses to god by embracing the vulnerability of the world in its naked state.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Martin, ‘10</span>** – Catholic priest and author of 'The Jesuit Guide to (Almost) Everything' (Rev. James, 5/25 The Huffington Post //Want to Experience God? You Already Have: Vulnerability// [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rev-james-martin-sj/want-to-experience-god-yo_b_589728.html]] JB) </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But in general, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">people do not …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> aware of our innate desire for God</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

**We control they key internal link into plans for the future.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Deffinbaugh, ’09</span>** – graduated from Dallas Theological Seminary with his Th.M. in 1971. Bob is a pastor/teacher and elder at Community Bible Chapel in Richardson, Texas (Bob, 02/02/09, God’s Perfect Plan, [[http://bible.org/seriespage/god%E2%80%99s-perfect-plan]] LH)</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">When human plans fail, it </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> about lordship the hard way, but he indeed learned:</span></span>

**<span class="Underline">We control the key internal link to</span> conflict**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy, ‘03</span>** – Nobel Peace Prize Nominee, Priest of the Eastern Rite (Byzantine) of the Catholic Church. He is the founder and the original director of The Program for the Study and Practice of Nonviolent Conflict Resolution at the University of Notre Dame. (Emmanuel Charles, //Christian Just War Theory: The Logic of Deceit// pg 5.5-5.6 JB) </span>
<span class="Underline">Does<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the omniscient and omnipotent </span>…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> sons and daughters</span>.</span>

**<span class="Underline">We control the key internal link into</span> value judgments**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ‘08</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, //Reasonable Faith Third Edition// 74-75 JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If life ends at the grave</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, then </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">it </span>…<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> right and I am wrong.</span></span>

**<span class="Underline">We control the key internal link into</span> meaning**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ‘08</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, //Reasonable Faith Third Edition// 71-72 JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Loss of God and …</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> purpose</span>.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Let’s look at each of these.</span></span>

**We subsume every impact they have**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig and Moreland, ‘03</span>** </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Research Professors of Philosophy at Talbot School of Theology in La Mirada, California. (William Lane, J.P. //Philosophical foundations for a Christian worldview// Ch. 27 [[http://www.bethinking.org/advanced/the-problem-of-evil.htm]] JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">3. </span>God's purpose is not …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> faith and confidence in God.</span></span>

**Our impact is perpetual suffering for all eternity – we outweigh everything**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bowtie, ‘10</span>** – Politcal Scientist, PhD. (Elliot, 7/1 Professor Bowtie, //HEAVEN OR HELL: WHERE WILL YOU BE SPENDING ETERNITY?// [[http://www.bowtieprofessor.com/religion-and-politics/heaven-or-hell-where-will-you-be-spending-eternity-2010-07-1279]] JB) </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hell is not a place where … now become their Lord and Saviour:</span></span>

**Thus our advocacy: The United States federal government should substantially decrease its military presence in the topic countries.**

===**Disads 2ac**=== 
The struggle for survival is futile; we are all headed inexorably toward death. “Jesus says ‘anyone who loses his or her life for my sake...will save it.’ To go against Jesus for the sake of survival at the risk of our eternal lives is radically absurd. 

<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy, ‘03</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nobel Peace Prize Nominee, Priest of the Eastern Rite (Byzantine) of the Catholic Church. He is the founder and the original director of The Program for the Study and Practice of Nonviolent Conflict Resolution at the University of Notre Dame. (Emmanuel Charles, //Christian Just War Theory: The Logic of Deceit pg// </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">3.4 JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It seems to me that …</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> dinosaurs</span> and Babylon<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. And yet... </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="Underline">**Deffenbaugh and Martin create a Double bind: God has planned out the entirety of our existence, either their impact happens and God has accounted for it and will protect us if we trust him, or it does not happen and it was not a reason to doubt God.** </span>**Their methodology is self-defeating and presumptuous. We should trust in God’s omniscience and omnipotence.** </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">We assume that the desired outcome is the best one, and that if it doesn't occur, God must not be helping </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">GSL, ‘09</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Theological organization. (Gorden and Jacki’s Place //What is Blind Trust in God?// [[http://www.ourlittleplace.com/blind.html]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">What is blind trust? Good question. Blind …</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> us what HE knows is best! </span>__</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extend our Craig evidence on value and meaning. If God exists, God is the locus and paradigm of all value, meaning, and morality. Alternative explanations are arbitrary and reducible to conditioning. If they read a counter interpretation, it is only viable if God does not exist, if they didn’t, vote aff on presumption because if God exists it is morally incumbent upon us to be nonviolent in all circumstances** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy, ‘03</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nobel Peace Prize Nominee, Priest of the Eastern Rite (Byzantine) of the Catholic Church. He is the founder and the original director of The Program for the Study and Practice of Nonviolent Conflict Resolution at the University of Notre Dame. (Emmanuel Charles, //Christian Just War Theory: The Logic of Deceit// pg 5.4 JB) </span></span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> If God is the kind of God who approves … simple, absolutely without division. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**We have nothing to fear if we trust in God.** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; tab-stops: 455.25pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">GSL, ‘09</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Theological organization. (Gorden and Jacki’s Place //What is Blind Trust in God?// [[http://www.ourlittleplace.com/blind.html]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">After you</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> begin to </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">learn to</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;"> walk on the top with Him</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">! </span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**The goodness of God and the joy of heaven outweigh any suffering.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig and Moreland, ‘03</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Research Professors of Philosophy at Talbot School of Theology in La Mirada, California. (William Lane, J.P. //Philosophical foundations for a Christian worldview// Ch. 27 http://www.bethinking.org/advanced/the-problem-of-evil.htm JB) </span></span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">4. The knowledge of God is …</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> God, an incommensurable good.</span></span>


===Counterplans 2ac=== 

**We can only find security under god’s wings, not in policy—any attempt to seduce you into believing anything else is the work of the impure.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">deGraff, ‘06</span>** **–** Minister<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (B. 10/06 FREE REFORMED CHURCHES OF NORTH AMERICA. //SHELTER UNDER THE WINGS OF GOD.// JB)</span> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">But </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">there is something more important … to Him for safety will not be cast off. AMEN. </span></span>

==**Dng Aphorism Aff**== 

===**Wake/Valley/New Trier 1ac**=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The world was shocked 9 years ago; the jarring collapse of two symbols of western capitalism was broadcast to a million different living rooms, producing affects in 300 million people. The public outrage that ensued ensured that inaction was out of the question. Energized by an active public, the government rushed to act and an invasion of Afghanistan was quickly underway. The military establishment had done what it is best at, gazing upon the latest becomings of humans and labeling the transition from beating heart and blood to ash and smoke as “death.” This understanding—which found its way into the occupation and control of Afghanistan—is what ensures that we do die instead of achieving our potential, that being infinity. </span> __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Deleuze and Guattari in ’72 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Anti-Oedipus, 330-39)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But it seems that things are becoming very obscure, for … and being swallowed up-a question of regime. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This drive to impose order ensures that we segment everything into the safest and most stable units. We keep our soldiers in Afghanistan because we think that when we leave chaos will ensue. We turn into Nazi doctors, dispassionately deciding on how best to suppress the dangers of existence. We deny ourselves freedom because think that the bodies that died in the rubble of those two towers were anything more than a shell for subjectivity. Changing this understanding allows us to access the force that keeps the cosmos together.</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Aima in ‘9 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Rahel, Columbia University, in the beginning was the language, and the language was gravity, April 13, 2009, http://killingdenouement.wordpress.com/2009/04/13/in-the-beginning-was-the-language-and-the-language-was-gravity LH)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the beginning was the language, and the language was gravity. … we are finally irrational, ex-tinctual and free.</span>**

We can dwell as the poet or the assassin, either annihilating Afghanistan with our control or freeing it up to the fluctuating force of the universe.
__Deleuze and Guattari in ‘80__ **(A thousand Plateaus, p. 345-346)**
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Material thus has three principal characteristics: it is …. safeguards, to the threat of the atomic bomb.</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thus our demand: The United States federal government should eliminate its military presence in Afghanistan. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">For the past 9 years the drive to prevent death and impose order has coded the country of Afghanistan to include that as part of their national identity. We have tried to legislate their sickness to such a point that their country has become sick with our control. Our affirmation can free their existence from this totalization and establish freedom.</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Deleuze in '4 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Gilles. Desert Islands and other texts. p. 252-260 LH)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We are familiar with the great instruments of encoding; … , we must ask: who are today's nomads, who are today's Nietzscheans? </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We are the USFG—our agency is permeable; we have dissolved this boundary in order to allow desire to be an active force in these mutual actions. </span> __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Deleuze and Guattari in ’72 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Anti-Oedipus, p. 87-88 LH)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But simulation must be understood in the same … its oscillations on the circle. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our affirmation is a refrain of beautiful music, one of creativity and chaos, one that affirms joy and understanding. What we do necessarily sets up demarcations about what we are. Demarcations are necessarily artificial and can close off lines of escape or open us up to the fluctuating forces of the universe. </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Pindar and Sutton in ‘2k </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(Ian and Paul, Introduction to The Three Ecologies, p. 8-13 LH)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There are many refrains in our own lives as … but as a medium for accident and chance.'15 </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We embrace the necessity of the outcomes our affirmative entails—this singular affirmation is the lynchpin for affirming all of reality and life. </span> __Deleuze, ‘83__ **(Gilles, Prof of Philosophy @ U of Lyon, Paris, and Lycees, Nietzsche and Philosophy, p. 25-27)**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The game has two moments which are those of a … return of a combination by the number of throws, but the repetition of a dicethrow by the nature of the fatally obtained number. 23 </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our affirmative is by itself an ethical art of living. </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Foucault 1972 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Preface to Anti-Oedipus (p. xiii-iv.) [Edited for correct underlined sentence structure -MRL]</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Last but not least, the major enemy, the strategic … this great book into a manual or guide to everyday life:</span>**

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Scranton/Blake 1ac</span>**=== 
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">The United States retains its police efforts around the world in an attempt to stretch its fingers of control over all forms of subjectivity – turning the state into a machine consumed fascism destroying all semblance of free thought.</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Parr, ‘05 </span>__**(Adrian, //The// <span class="highlight">//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Deleuze</span>// //<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">dictionary,</span>//</span> Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, p. 98-99 LH)**
**<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;"><span style="color: #0c0c0c;">Deleuze and Guattari discuss both micro- … </span><span style="color: #111111;">it is portrayed as in Anti-Oedipus.</span> </span>**

<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">This policing of the world binds humans into a moral unity – the status quo is a brick, we can either throw it through the window or we can build a courthouse of reason with it. </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Massumi, ’80 </span>__**(Brian. //A Thousand Plateaus//. p. xi-xiii LH)**
**__“__<span class="UnderlinedChar">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">State philosophy” is another word for the …</span>__</span>entrenching oneself in a closed space (hold the fort).**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This moral unity – designed to keep the world safe – corrupts the world and denies our fundamental connection with the universe in its most primordial form – affirm an end to this policing as an act of creative destruction.</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Aima, ’09 </span>__**(Rahel, Columbia University, //in the beginning was the language, and the language was gravity//, April 13, 2009, http://killingdenouement.wordpress.com/2009/04/13/in-the-beginning-was-the-language-and-the-language-was-gravity LH) <span style="margin-left: .25in;">//*morpheme: the smallest linguistic unit that has semantic meaning// </span>**
**In the beginning was the language, and the … __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">prison, we are</span>__ __finally irrational, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">ex-tinctual and free</span>__.**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">This refusal to connect with the world ensures we die instead of achieving our infinite potential.</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hallinan, ’10 </span>__**– blake hallinan studies pataphysics and poetry at kansas state university (//microtheory: blake hallinan; Meditations on the Future of Death//. superplus vol. 1, ed. 3, http://superplusjournal.com/Magazines.html LH) Immortality terrifies me. I have no desire to …**
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">it with your own words and ideas.</span>__ __The fire continues__ **.**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Only adopting an ethic of detachment can stop us from treating the world like an object – instead we should accept that it is out of control.</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Slabbert, ’01 </span>__**<span style="color: black;">(Jos, //Tao Te Ching: Qualities of Compassion: How to Deal With Suffering//, </span>[[http://www.taoism.net/theway/suffer.htm]]<span style="color: black;">)</span> <span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If you open yourself to loss</span>__////<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, you are at … </span>//__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">more we tamper with it, the more damage we will do</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">We can either dwell as the poet or the assassin—bombarding the world with our control or opening it up to the fluctuating forces of the universe </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari, ’80</span>__
**(Gilles and Felix, //A Thousand Plateaus//, p. 345-346) Material thus has three principal characteristics: … of the radio, to computer safeguards, to the threat of the atomic bomb.**
Thus our refrain of life: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its police presence in the topic countries.

We will wage war with desire – the police’s system of control will end -- we shouldn’t let securitizing blackmail teach us how best to dissent in the meantime.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Marwill, ’10</span>__ **– sub-commandante marwill is the chief illegal officer of the union of concerned terrorists, detroit, mi and author of “Voice from Somewhere” (forthcoming), autonomedia, 2011 (//report from the union of concerned terrorists//, superplus vol. 1, ed. 3, [[http://superplusjournal.com/Magazines.html]] LH) <span class="Underline"> “To tell the truth, the disastrous unemployment … ideal or future utopia. And no matter how long it takes, our world is coming. </span>**

Police control codes the world under the symbol of Americanism – our task today is to decode the world from this control in order to affirm freedom.
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Deleuze, '04</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> (Gilles. //Desert Islands and other texts//. p. 252-260 LH) </span>**
**We are familiar with __the great ….__ nomads, who are today's Nietzscheans?**

Existence is an idea—we need to delimit this idea and let it run rampant through the world – this means our plan is a refrain against the policing of thought.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Guattari, ’92</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> (Felix, 1992, //Chaosmosis//, p. 107-110) </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">The new aesthetic paradigm has ethico-political … , in two modalities, which we will now examine, whose double articulation is characteristic of the machine in the wider sense envisaged here. </span>**

We are the USFG—our agency is permeable; we have dissolved this boundary in order to allow desire to be an active force in these mutual actions.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Deleuze and Guattari, ’72</span>__ **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">(Gilles and Felix, //Anti-Oedipus//, p. 87-88 LH) </span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">But </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">simulation</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> must be understood in the … </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">and concludes a self from its oscillations on the circle</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">. </span>**

Our affirmation is a refrain of beautiful music, one of creativity and chaos, one that affirms joy and understanding. <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">What we //__do__// necessarily sets up demarcations about what we //__are__//</span>. Police presence traps the world into exclusionary ideas, models, and ways of being. Our //only// goal is to escape from this black hole of existential contraction.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pindar and Sutton, ‘2k </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Ian and Paul, //Introduction to The Three Ecologies//, p. 8-13 LH)</span>**
**__There are many refrains in our__ own __…__ a painter but __as a medium for accident and chance__.'15**

We embrace the necessity of the outcomes our affirmative entails—this singular affirmation is the lynchpin for affirming all of reality and life.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Deleuze, ‘83</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> (Gilles, Prof of Philosophy @ U of Lyon, Paris, and Lycees, Nietzsche and Philosophy, p. 25-27) </span>**
**The game has two moments which are those of a …<span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> the nature of the fatally obtained number.</span></span> 23**

Our affirmative is by itself an ethical art of living.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Foucault</span>__ 19__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">72</span>__ **Preface to //Anti-Oedipus// (p. xiii-iv.) [Edited for correct underlined sentence structure -MRL] Last but not least, __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">the major enemy, the </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">… </span>__this great book into a manual or guide to everyday life:**

The negative might tell you that our goal should be to envision a world with less death or tragedy but suffering is the ontological core of being.
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kain, ‘07</span>__ **(Phillip J., Professor of Philosophy at Santa Clara University, The Journal of Nietzsche Studies, “Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence”, MUSE, jj)**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-right: 0.2in;">Knowledge of the horror of existence kills action—which … at all. That cannot be changed—it can only be concealed. </span>**

<span style="line-height: normal;">AND—Tragedy is a beautiful condition of life – we can see joy and multiplicity in even the deepest of suffering </span>
<span class="cite">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze, ‘83 </span>__</span>**(Gilles, Prof of Philosophy @ U of Lyon, Paris, and Lycees, //Nietzsche and Philosophy//__,__ p. 128-130) <span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Dionysus affirms</span> all</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> that appears, "</span><span class="underline0">… </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">" (VP IV 50). Tragedy — frank, dynamic, gaiety. </span></span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: normal;">Attempting to change the world is crucial to celebrating life.</span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">May, ’05 </span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">(Todd, prof @ Clemson. “To change the world, to celebrate life,” Philosophy & Social Criticism, Vol 31 nos 5–6 pp. 517–531)</span>**
**<span style="tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">To change the world and to… <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">, to those others who would be more than willing to take your world up for you</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>**

==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">PMCs 1ac (Semis of Hoflo)</span>**== 

<span style="tab-stops: 437.25pt;"><span class="Underline">**Plan: The United States federal government should remove its private military presence from the topic countries.** </span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: 437.25pt;"><span class="Underline">**Contention one is capitalist securitization—** </span></span>
<span class="Underline">**A significant shift is occurring in international relations --- military contractors are the key collision between capital and security** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous, ‘08</span>** – Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel University (Mark, //Critique of Security//, p. 147-150) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Retort has called this a … is made within the industry itself.20 </span>

<span class="Underline">**And, private military contractors reify the national security state and capitalism --- root cause of insecurity --- removing presence breaks down dominant dichotomies** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous, ‘08</span>** – Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel University (Mark, //Critique of Security//, p. 152-156) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">In this ‘new era’, then, … point is that the insecurity in question is an inescapable feature of bourgeois society. </span>

<span class="Underline">**This collision of capitalism and security creates unending violence** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Orts, ‘02</span>** – Professor of Legal Studies and Management, Wharton School @ UPenn, (Eric, //CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, STAKEHOLDER ACCOUNTABILITY, AND SUSTAINABLE PEACE//, http://www.wdi.umich.edu/files/Publications/WorkingPapers/wp427.pdf) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 40.5pt;"><span class="Underline">In a globalized society, simplified …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> the very survival of civilization </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">itself</span>.” 64 </span></span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Allowing capitalism to permeate the military realm creates the worst atrocities. </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Internationalist Perspective, ‘2k</span>__** (//Capitalism and Genocide//, [[http://www.geocities.com/wageslavex/capandgen.html]] LH) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mass death, and genocide</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, the … race can necessitate its elimination through physical removal (ethnic cleansing) or extermination (genocide). </span>

<span class="Underline">**Voting affirmative signals a normative rejection of capitalism --- this is the only ethical act** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Zizek and Daly, ‘04</span>** (Slavoj and Glyn, //Conversations with Zizek//, pg. 14-16) </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">For Zizek it is imperative that we … in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Rejecting the conceptual framework that allows for the existence of private military contractors is a necessary precursor for collapsing capitalist securitization** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous, ‘08</span>** – Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History Brunel University (Mark, //Critique of Security//, p. 159-160) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">In this sense, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the security …</span> labour, the <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">university</span>. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Removing pmc’s is key --- they cause conflict** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Salzman, ‘08</span>** -- ZOE SALZMAN, Clinical Contract Attorney @ Center for Human Rights and Global Justice, J.D. Magna Cum Laude from NYU Law (//PRIVATE MILITARY CONTRACTORS AND THE TAINT OF A MERCENARY REPUTATION//, 2008, http://www.law.nyu.edu/ecm_dlv2/groups/public/@nyu_law_websitejournalsjournal_of_international_law_and_politics/documents/documents/ecm_pro_058877.pdf) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 101.25pt;"><span class="Underline">The above example … the Blackwater incident is well-founded. </span> </span>

<span class="Underline">**PMC’s drive for profit results in global neo-imperialist war, internal conflict, and mass genocide** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Xavier, ’05</span>** – Renou, Prof. @ Université Patheon-Assas (Oxford Development Studies 33.1, //Private Military Compaies Against Development//, p. 108-110) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Globalization is a process of deepening of … strategies of war (in 1996 Zaire, in 1991 Croatia), etc. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Contention 2 is our framework –** </span>
<span class="Underline">**The ballot should prioritize a policy action to reject the logic of security --- you should posit yourself as an intellectual choosing the best rhetorical strategy** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Jones, ‘99</span>** – Professor International Politics @ Aberystwyth University (Richard Wyn, //Security, Strategy, and Critical Theory//, p. 155-163) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The **central political task of …**</span></span>, should act as both an inspiration and a challenge to critical security studies. 

<span class="Underline">**Hold the negative accountable for their speech act --- reps first** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Anand, ’07</span>__** – PhD (Bristol), MA (Hull), BA Honours (St Stephen’s College, Delhi) Reader in International Relations Centre for the Study of Democracy, Westminster University, London (Dibyesh, Geopolitical exotica: Tibet in western imagination p. 12-16 2007) </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">WORLD POLITICS AS THE POLITICS OF IMAGINATION </span>__…__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of some pregiven, essentialzed, fixed object.</span> </span>

<span class="Underline">**The negatives impact claims are constructed --- empirical examples go aff--- solves the escalation of conflict.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Talbot, ‘08</span>** ( 'Us' and 'mThem': Terrorism, Conflict and (O)ther Discursive Formations by Steven Talbot Defence Science and Technology Organisation Sociological Research Online, Volume 13, Issue 1Published: 21/3/2008 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As a point of departure, this paper aims to explore … extant within ‘so-called’ homogenous populations.</span>


=**Negative**= 
==Topicality== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Combat Troops 1nc</span>=== 

**Interpretation - Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thomason, ‘02</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">– Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? Our working …</span> __security operation or contingency should call for them__.

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ground Forces 1nc</span>=== 

**“Military” means land forces**
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">American Heritage Dictionary, 09</span>
(“Military,” http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/military) 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4. Of or</span>__<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">relating to land forces</span>. </span>__

**Presence is military personnel**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Poon et al, ‘06</span>__** - Department of Geography, University at Buffalo-SUNY, Buffalo (Jessie, “The role of US defense exports in Asia Pacific regionalism,” Political Geography 25 (2006) 715-734, Science Direct) 

<span style="color: black;">The major source of defense trade …</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> and developments in the region. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">they undermine education on the topic—this evidence also supports our ground and limits claims</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Till, ’06</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Geoffrey, Professor of Maritime Studies in the Defence Studies Department of King's College, The development of British naval thinking: essays in memory of Bryan McLaren Ranft, p. 130) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Accordingly, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">the aim of professional </span>____<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">… all too easily become ‘insufficiently naval’</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subsets </span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1nc</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**First, the word ‘in’ means throughout** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases, ‘08</span>** (Permanent Edition, vol. 20a, p. 207) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Colo. 1887. In the Act of 1861 …, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Second, “Military” includes the Navy, Marines, Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Random History, ‘07</span>** (History website; all authors have at least a BA, many have advanced degrees, “Pluralism, Expansionism, and Democracy: A History of the U.S. Military,” Random History and Word Origins for the Curious Mind, December 14, http://www.randomhistory.com/1-50/020military.html) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: center 3.75in;"><span class="Underline">In many ways, the history of … America still stands as the world’s premier military superpower, but it has not always been this way. </span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: center 3.75in;"><span class="Underline">**Third, Substantially necessitates complete withdrawal** </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Lowe, ‘03</span>** – Prof. of Philosophy at Durham Univ., UK (E.J. Lowe, //Substantial Change and Spatiotemporal Coincidence//, Ratio, XVI, 2, June, 2003) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Change comes in several species, …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> substances</span>’, or ‘substantial individuals’.</span>

====Ground 2nc==== 

**__Narrow Focus is Good__** **–** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">real world – it outweighs.</span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Branson, ‘07</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Josh Branson, Center for Strategic and International Studies and just graduated from Harvard Law, 2007, “[eDebate] Reflections about debate and policymaking”, http://www.mail-archive.com/edebate@www.ndtceda.com/msg01593.html)</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Well, thats not the way it worked at all, at least for …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> and causes the region to implode</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

====Limits Impact Calc==== 

**Key internal link to participation**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Rowland, ‘84</span>__** (Robert C., Debate Coach – Baylor University, “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective, Ed. Parson, p. 59-60) </span>
The first major problem identified by the …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> cancel their programs</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="tab-stops: 115.5pt;">**__Studies prove__** **– we access education better** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in; tab-stops: 115.5pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">SD, ‘09</span>__** (Science Daily, “Students Benefit From Depth, Rather Than Breadth, In High School Science Courses”, http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2009/03/090305131814.htm) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 115.5pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A recent study reports that </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> National Science Foundation.</span></span>

**Allows a more comprehensive view of individual problems**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Pilloton, ‘10</span>__** – Founder and Executive Director of Project H Design. Trained in architecture at UC Berkeley and product design at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, she started Project H to provide a conduit and catalyst for need-based product design that empowers individuals, communities, and economies (Emily, //Depth over Breadth: Designing for Impact Locally, and for the Long Haul//, Interactions, May/June) </span>
A few friends of mine are … __to <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">have a larger, stronger, and</span> even <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">exponential impact</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="tab-stops: 401.25pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Creates better social engagement </span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Pilloton, ‘10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> – Founder and Executive Director of Project H Design. Trained in architecture at UC Berkeley and product design at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, she started Project H to provide a conduit and catalyst for need-based product design that empowers individuals, communities, and economies (Emily, //Depth over Breadth: Designing for Impact Locally, and for the Long Haul//, Interactions, May/June)</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">I have never been one to sit …</span>__involvement and growing empowerment__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

====Predictability 2nc==== 

**They make the topic bidirectional**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">NYT</span>__**, 6/6/**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">03</span>__** (//G.I.'s Will Gradually Leave Korea DMZ to Cut War Risk//, http://www.nytimes.com/2003/06/06/world/gi-s-will-gradually-leave-korea-dmz-to-cut-war-risk.html) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 141.0pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">The <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span>__**nited **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; padding: 0in;">S</span>__**tates **__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">and … part of the country</span>__**, near the demilitarized zone.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;">A2: Military = Ground Forces</span>==== 

**Prefer our definition of military –**
**Context matters—for the purposes of deployment strategy, all aspects of armed power are included as “military”**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">VEGO, ‘03</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> (Milan, Professor of Operations, US Naval War College, Naval Strategy and Operations in Narrow Seas, pp. 1-2)</span> </span>
__<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">In the strict meaning of …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> when referring to land warfare.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The JCS errs neg – means we access predictability best which is a prerequisite to ground.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Blechman et al, ‘97</span>** – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The highly complex …</span> __capabilities__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”2</span>

====A2: "You just define our words for us"==== 

<span class="Underline">**The plan will be ruled “void for vagueness” – and struck down** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Klapach, ‘99** (Joseph S., JD Candidate – Cornell University Law School, “Thou Shalt Not Politic”, Cornell Law Review, January, 84 Cornell L. Rev. 504, Lexis) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A statute may be void </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span> with a barrage of questions:</span>

<span class="Underline">**Means no solvency** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Margulies, ‘03** (Peter, Professor of Law – Roger Williams University, “The Virtues And Vices Of Solidarity: Regulating The Roles Of Lawyers For Clients Accused Of Terrorist Activity”, Maryland Law Review, 62 Md. L. Rev. 173, Lexis) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">n162. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Courts may </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">….</span> of vagueness challenges.</span>

====A2: In = Within==== 

**The adjective “military” means the plan must apply to all of the armed forces generally—the plan applies only to one branch**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Spiritus Temporis, ‘05</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> (History website, //Military//, http://www.spiritus-temporis.com/military/meaning-of-the-word.html) </span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">In American …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and military force.</span>

====A2: Neg Side Bias==== 

<span style="tab-stops: list 40.0pt;">**Education Outweighs Fairness—__Real world__** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Branson, ‘07</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9pt;">(Josh Branson, Center for Strategic and International Studies and just graduated from Harvard Law, 2007, “[eDebate] Reflections about debate and policymaking”, http://www.mail-archive.com/edebate@www.ndtceda.com/msg01593.html LH)</span> </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">People’s obsession </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span>__ cry foul a lot. Maybe too much. 

====A2: Overlimits==== 

<span class="Underline">**People advocate full withdrawal – here’s proof –** </span>
<span class="Underline">**1. South Korea** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bandow, ‘03</span>** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, Author and Editor of Several Books, Former Special Assistant to President Reagan and visiting Fellow at the Heritage Foundation (Doug, "Bring the Troops Home Ending the Obsolete Korean Commitment", Policy Analysis, May 7th 2003, June 16th 2010, p. 11) PDF </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Former secretary …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> forces immediately</span>.101</span>

<span class="Underline">**2. Afghanistan** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hornberger, ‘09</span>** – Founder and President of The Future of Freedom Foundation (Jacob G., “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”, Hornberger’s Blog, February 9th 2009, http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Permit me to make …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> to the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span></span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">at once</span>.</span>

<span class="Underline">**3. Iraq** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Ackerman, ‘09</span>** – American National Security Reporter (Spencer, “Senior Military Official: U.S. Should Withdraw From Iraq Next Year”, Washington Independent, July 30th 2009, http://washingtonindependent.com/53243/senior-military-official-u-s-should-withdraw-from-iraq-next-year) </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">*Cites Timothy R. Reese – Army Col., Chief of the Baghdad Operations Command Advisory Team for Multinational Division-Baghdad </span></span>
<span class="Underline">As a result, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Reese contends, …</span> December 2011, as allowed in the SOFA.</span>

<span class="Underline">**4. Japan** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bandow, ‘04</span>** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, Author and Editor of Several Books, Former Special Assistant to President Reagan and visiting Fellow at the Heritage Foundation (Doug, “Withdrawal of U.S. forces a good start”, Japan Times, August 22nd 2004, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20040822db.html) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 50.25pt;"><span class="Underline">WASHINGTON -- President George W. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bush has … in two or three years</span>, rather than in 10.</span></span>

====A2: Reduce =/= Eliminate==== 

**Reduce means to make smaller**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="color: black;">Webster’s, ‘93</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Webster’s Third New International Dictionary, online at Emory) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 11.0pt;">reduce</span></span> //<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">vb</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> -ED/-ING/-S **b (1)** </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="color: black; font-size: 11.0pt;">: to …</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> smaller</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">:</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> LESSEN, SHRINK</span></span>

**Reduce can include an elimination**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__Federal Register, ‘10__** (<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">26 CFR 1.411(d)-3, Current as of 5/19/10, lexis)</span> </span>
(7) Eliminate; elimination; reduce; reduction. … __includes an elimination__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====A2: Substantially Checks/CI==== 

**Prefer this on Precision – Theoretic or philosophical definitions are more precise than reportative definitions – this is more predictable and a prerequisite for effective communication.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hospers, '97</span>** (Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at the University of Southern California, An Introduction to Philosophical Analysis, pp. 15-16) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">2. Reportive definitions. But </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">most </span>…<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> he attempted to find the definition of </span>justice.</span>

(and) **Here’s more proof – there is no consensus among reportative definitions:**
<span class="Underline">**A. 25%** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">US Code, ‘10</span>__** (TITLE 10. ARMED FORCES SUBTITLE A. GENERAL MILITARY LAW PART IV. SERVICE, SUPPLY, AND PROCUREMENT CHAPTER 148. NATIONAL DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE, DEFENSE REINVESTMENT, AND DEFENSE CONVERSION SUBCHAPTER II. POLICIES AND PLANNING, Current as of 5/17/10, lexis) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"(f) Definitions. For purposes of this … of the funds obligated by the contract.".</span>

**B. considerable in quantity.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Merriam-Webster, ‘08</span>__** <span style="color: black;">(“substantial”, 2008, http://www.merriam-webster.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=substantially) </span></span>
Main Entry: __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">sub·stan·tial</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 1 a: consisting of or … which is specified <a substantial lie></span>

**C. without material qualification**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Black’s Law Dictionary, ‘91</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> [p. 1024]</span> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Substantially</span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> - <span class="Underline">… qualification</span></span>__.

**D. including the main part**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">WORDS AND PHRASES</span>__****__, 19<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">64</span>__**, p. 818. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Substantially” means</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> the</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> material or </span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">essential part</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====A2: Substantial = 50%==== 

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12.0pt;">Their interp of substantial is unpredictable, the bill it’s from didn’t pass. </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bill Tracking Report, ‘92</span>__** (Bill Tracking Report for the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">1992 Bill Tracking H.R. 4421; 102 Bill Tracking H.R. 4421, </span>lexis) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">COMPREHENSIVE BASE CLOSURE </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span>__ or realignment of military installations. 

==**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disadvantages</span>**== 

===<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;"> SKFTA Politics Da </span>=== 
Political capital is key to SKFTA 
Michael <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Green 11-1</span></span> Senior advisor at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. Jooang Daily http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2927756 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama is instinctively a …</span><span class="underline"> and is committed to this goal</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

SKFTA KEY TO THE ALLIANCE. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">KOREA TIMES 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [“KORUS FTA crucial in resolving alliance challenges” July 30 -- lexis] The environment for foreign businesses …</span><span class="underline"> the traditional security domain</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

US-SOUTH KOREA RELATIONS KEY TO ASIAN STABILITY. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klingner 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bruce, the Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia at The Heritage Foundation's Asian Studies Center. October 9 “Forging a New Era in the U.S.—Japan Alliance” Heritage -- http://www.heritage.org/Research/AsiaandthePacific/bg2196.cfm] </span> <span class="underline">The U.S. has critical …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ago, much work remains. </span>

ASIAN INSTABILITY GOES NUCLEAR. 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan S. </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Landay</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, National Security and Intelligence Correspondent, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">-2K</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Top Administration Officials Warn Stakes for U.S. Are High in Asian Conflicts”, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, March 10, p. Lexis] </span> <span class="underline">Few</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> if any </span><span class="underline">experts …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the Commerce Department.</span>
==Counterplans== 

===**Consult Nato Cp**=== 

====1nc Shell==== 
Text: The United States Federal Government will engage prior, genuine, and binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization defense planning committee over (plan)_. The United States will advocate ___(the plan)___ during the consultative process and will adopt the result of the consultation. We’ll clarify. 

NATO supports the U.S. and will back its decisions 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davies 09</span></span> (8/1/09 Anne, Brisbane Times, “NATO backs Obama before meeting with generals”, [[http://www.brisbanetimes.com.au/world/nato-backs-obama-before-meeting-with-generals-20090930-gcqq.html]]) <span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The meeting with General …</span><span class="underline"> every step of the way,'' Mr Obama said.</span> </span>

Genuine prior consultation with NATO over major foreign policy decisions prevent a fracturing of the alliance. 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gordon 04</span></span> - Senior fellow in foreign policy studies and director of the Centre on the United States and Europe at the Brookings Institution in Washington, DC, the US Senate confirmed Philip Gordon as assistant secretary of state for Europe and Eurasian affairs ( June 24, 2004, Philip, “LETTER TO EUROPE”, [[http://www.brookings.edu/views/articles/gordon/20040701.pdf]]) <span class="underline">What we need is a “… the global community. </span>

Collapse of the alliance => NW 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski 09</span></span> - former U.S. National Security Adviser and current professor at the School of Advanced International Studies at //Johns Hopkins University]]. (September/October 2009 Zbigniew, Foreign Affairs, An Agenda for NATO, [[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/65240/zbigniew-brzezinski/an-agenda-for-nato]])// //<span class="underline">Visible on the horizon </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>////<span class="underline"> a U.S. responsibility</span>//**//<span class="underline">.</span>//**

===Executive Order Cp=== 
====1nc Shell==== 
Executive orders are effective policy tools and cause momentum and defuses opposition 
__Cooper, ‘02__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Phillip, Professor of Public Administration @ Portland State University, </span>By Order of the President: The Use and Abuse of Executive Direct Action) __Executive orders can__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> __and defensive__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">GBTL Cp</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">1nc Shell</span>==== 

**Text: The United States federal government should give itself and all its land back to the native Americans.**

**The plan rest upon a colonial history that makes war and violence inevitable unless we give the land back.**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Churchill, ’96</span>__** (Ward Churchill, 1996, Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder, BA and MA in Communications from Sangamon State, From A Native Son pgs 520 – 530)
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">I’ll debunk some of this nonsense …</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> militaristic order on non-Indians</span>__ <span style="color: black;">.</span>**

====<span style="font-size: 90%;">A2: Perm</span>==== 

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Must insist on hierarchies—The Alternative must be a priority or it risks being neutralized as just any other political issue</span> __<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Churchill, ’03 </span>__**
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(Ward Churchill 2003 Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of Colorado, Boulder, BA and MA in Communications from Sangamon State, </span>On the Justice of Roosting Chickens, Page 8) <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Turning to America’s vaunted … far less noble.</span>

===<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Doctrine Cp</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1nc Shell</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The United States federal government should adopt a systematic methodology for the continuous development of the official doctrine of […] in [Afghanistan/Iraq/Kuwait/Japan/South Korea/Turkey] in relation to historical military experience, innovation in new technologies and the emergence of new threats.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The “closed doctrine” approach of the 1AC makes the military inadaptive to change and ensures dogmatism—durable fiat makes any permutation severance </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kono, ‘97 (Major Terry T., SQUARE PEGS AND ROUND HOLES:AIR FORCE DOCTRINE AND THE B-2 BOMBER A Research Paper Presented To The Research Department Air Command and Staff College www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/acsc/97-0604.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">On October 8, 1996, three B-2 bombers … of the B-2 as another example.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">ONLY the dynamic open-doctrine approach of the counterplan allows the plan to become adaptive to new scenarios and facilitate effective force structure instead of an inflexible mandate. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Temple, ’92 Lt Col L. Parker Temple III, (USAF, Retired (USAFA; MBA, University of Northern Colorado; MS, West Coast University), is a private consultant on space policy and programs. “Of Machine Guns, Yellow Brick Roads, and Doctrine” Airpower Journal, Summer, http://www.airpower.maxwell.af.mil/airchronicles/apj/apj92/sum92/temple.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We now have the end objective in … art together, as provided by the concept of frameworks.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2nc Overview </span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our net-benefit is dogmatism – trading one inadaptive doctrine for another causes mission failure and risks atrocity. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Watts and Hale ‘84 Lieutenant Colonel Barry D. Watts (USAFA; M.A., University of Pittsburgh) is Red Team Chief for Project Checkmate at Headquarters USAF</span><span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">. His recent assignments have been in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and instructor at the U.S. Air Force Academy, Major James O. Hale (B.A., University of Utah; M.S., University of Southern California) is a Blue Team Air-to-Air Analyst assigned to Project Checkmate at Hq USAF. “Doctrine: Mere Words, or a Key to War-Fighting Competence?” Air University Review, September-October http://www.airpower.au.af.mil/airchronicles/aureview/1984/sep-oct/watts.html </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 33.0pt;"><span class="Underline">The second thing that doctrine is not is …**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"> attention to the uncompromising realities of battle</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span> </span></span>


==Impact Args== 
===Spark=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1nc Shell</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Nuclear war is inevitable – widening culture gap, rampant proliferation, and 1ac impacts all prove** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Caldwell, ’03** – PhD & Independent New Age Candidate for the US House of Representatives (Joseph George, 3/6/03, //The End Of The World,// http://www.foundationwebsite.org/TheEndOfTheWorld.htm) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">It would appear that global … continuing on the present course leads to a “dead” planet.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Collapse of industrialized society must happen now; any delay means extinction from environmental catastrophe** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Barry, ’08** – Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development" (Dr. Glen, 1/14/08, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology”, Counter Currents, http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm ) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Humanity and the Earth … the day. It is more fragile than it looks. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**Delaying such limited nuke wars is bad – inertia weapons coming that will cause extinction** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Smith, ’03** – Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer @ Community Health Services (Wayne, the ultimate weapon, 4/14/03 http://spacedaily.com/news/nuclear-blackmarket-03b.html) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 363.75pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">While a nuclear explosion … strike is threatened, but a country?</span></span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Allowing for nuclear war means humanity survives, solves overpopulation, industrial activity, and ecological catastrophe** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Caldwell, ’03** – PhD & Independent New Age Candidate for the US House of Representatives (Joseph George, 3/6/03, //The End Of The World,// http://www.foundationwebsite.org/TheEndOfTheWorld.htm) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">So, for a number of reasons, it …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> feasible</span>. What can be done?</span>

**Nuke detonation solves warming**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__Choi, 2/22__**/11 – staff writer for national geographic (Charles Q. Choi, //Small Nuclear War Could Reverse Global Warming for Years//, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2011/02/110223-nuclear-war-winter-global-warming-environment-science-climate-change/ LH) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Even a regional nuclear …</span>__ conflict, according to the model. 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**Warming kills billions. Risks extinction.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cummins and Allen ‘10</span>** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 90.75pt;"><span class="Underline">The hour is late. Leading … to maintain "business as usual."</span></span>

====Survivability 2nc==== 
**Even if we lose the survivability debate, there is only a risk it is less likely to be survivable later.**

<span class="Underline">**Nuclear war survivable – even under worst case estimates** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Martin, ’80** – professor at the University of Wollongong (Brian, June 1980, “Mobilising against nuclear war: the insufficiency of knowledge and logic”, Social Alternatives, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/80sa.html) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Many people believe a …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> or social breakdown.</span></span>


<span class="Underline">**Scientific consensus agrees** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Martin, ’83** – professor at the University of Wollongong (Brian, March 1983, “The fate of extinction arguments”, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/83fea.html) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">According to the …</span> for nuclear war?</span>


<span class="Underline">**Independently, Australia would survive – prefer the specificity of our evidence** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Martin, ’82** – professor at the University of Wollongong (Brian, December 1982, “The global health effects of nuclear war”, Current Affairs Bulletin, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82cab/index.html) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 74.25pt;"><span class="Underline">The available evidence …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> negligible effect.</span></span></span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 10pt;">A2: D-Rules</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Ethics must be situationally dependent lest they ignore reality.** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__Elliot, ‘97__**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Herschel, Emeritus Philosophy @ Univ. Florida, A General Statement of the Tragedy of the Commons, http://www.dieoff.org/page121.htm) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">I believe, however, that </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Hardin's … the possibility of further ethical behavior</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">A2: Increases Warming</span>==== 
Nuke war causes long lasting cooling
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__Robock Et. Al., ‘07__** (Alan Robock, Professor in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University, Brian Toon and Charles Bardeen, University of Colorado, Richard Turco, UCLA, Georgiy Stenchikov, Rutgers University, and Luke Oman, Johns Hopkins University, “Climate Effects of a Regional Nuclear Conflict”, //IPRC Climate//, 2007. http://climate.envsci.rutgers.edu/pdf/iprc_climate_NW.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">With support from the National Science … changes are largest over land</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A2: Ozone</span>==== 
<span style="margin-right: 17.7pt;">**Nuclear War won’t kill the ozone—that argument is based on an outdated model.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__Martin, ’88__** (Brian, Professor of Science Technology, Nuclear Winter, Science and Public Policy, October, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/88spp.html) </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In 1981 journalist Jonathan </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schell …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> now-famous paper for //Ambio//[16].</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bioweapons Defense</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Bioweapons can’t be used – too unreliable </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Laqueur, ‘99 (Walter, Cochairman, International Research Council, The Center for Strategic and International Studies, The New Terrorism, 1999, pg. 69) The attractions of biological …, but it is by no mens foolproof. Bioweapons don’t cause extinction O’Neill 4 O’Neill 8/19/2004 [Brendan, “Weapons of Minimum Destruction” http://www.spiked-online.com/Articles/0000000CA694.htm] David C Rapoport, professor of political … as to the attacked'. The Tigers have not used WMD since.</span>**

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Central Asian War Defense</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">SCO (Shanghai Cooperation Organization) checks war </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Maksutov 6 (Ruslan, August, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization: A Central Asian Perspective, http://www.sipri.org/research/security/euroatlantic/sipri_prod_material/project_papers/ruslan_SCO) As a starting point, it is fair ...loom so large by comparison. No escalation—no vital interests for great power war in Central Asia. Weitz, ’06 (Richard, senior fellow and associate director of the Center for Future Security Strategies at the Hudson Institute, Summer. The Washington Quarterly, Muse) Central Asian security affairs have … traditionally have predominated. Instability is inevitable Boucher, ‘06 (Richard A., Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, 4/26. “U.S. Policy in Central Asia: Balancing Priorities (Part II),” Statement to the House International Relations Committee, http://www.state.gov/p/sca/rls/rm/2006/65292.htm) Central Asia faces numerous … reform and development.</span>**

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China War Defense</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">No china War A. Regime stability </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Ross in ‘9 (Robert, professor of politics and international affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, Sept/Oct, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id==22022) Professor Friedberg’s … promote U.S.-China cooperation.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">B. Economics Perry and Scowcroft 9 (William and Brent, US Nuclear Weapons Policy, Council on Foreign Relations, p. 44) Economic interdependence provides … larger strategic issues</span>**

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">East Asian War Defense</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">No East Asian war --- informal processes secure and maintain East Asian peace </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Weissmann, 09 --- senior fellow at the Swedish School of Advanced Asia Pacific Studies (Mikael Weissmann, “Understanding the East Asian Peace: Some Findings on the Role of Informal Processes,” Nordic Asia Research Community, November 2, 2009, http://barha.asiaportal.info/blogs/in-focus/2009/november/understanding-east-asian-peace-some-findings-role-informal-processes-mi) The findings concerning … a stable peace. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">No escalation --- economic interdependence checks </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Weissmann, 09 --- senior fellow at the Swedish School of Advanced Asia Pacific Studies (Mikael Weissmann, “Understanding the East Asian Peace: Some Findings on the Role of Informal Processes,” Nordic Asia Research Community, November 2, 2009, http://barha.asiaportal.info/blogs/in-focus/2009/november/understanding-east-asian-peace-some-findings-role-informal-processes-mi) Economic integration and …. conflict escalations and building peace.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Indo-Pak War Defense</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">India-Pakistan war won’t happen and won’t escalate even if it does </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">LIMAYE 2003 (Satu, director of research at the Asia Pacific Center for Security Studies, Asia Times, Jan 8, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia%5CEA08Df02.html) Kashmir's dangers and costs are … that make nuclear war possible. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Deterrence is stable between india and pakistan </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Rajagopalan,‘05 (Rajesh, Associate Prof. Int’l. Politics – School of International Studies of Jawaharlal Nehru U., India Review, “The Threat of Unintended Use of Nuclear Weapons in South Asia”, 4:2, July, Ebsco) A factor that has consistently … control, especially in crisis time.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Korea War Defense</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">No North Korean aggression—U.S. deterrent </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Voa news in ‘9 (7/14, U.S. General Says Forces Ready to Counter N.Korean Attack, http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2009/07/15/2009071500301.html) A senior U.S. military commander says …. to intercept those if they were ever launched." </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Even if it does happen, it won’t escalate </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Korea Time in ‘3 (1/3, “Foreign Investors Dismiss Nuclear Crisis,” LN) Global fund managers …," Lee Seung-hoon of UBS Warburg's Seoul branch said.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Middle East War Defense</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">War in the Middle East will never escalate to all-out war – conflicts remain relatively localized – five reasons </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Cook, Takeyh, and Maloney in ‘7 (Douglas Dillon Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, Ray, Senior Fellow For Middle Eastern Studies at the CFR, Suzanne, Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Brookings Institution, June 28, , online: http://www.cfr.org/publication/13702/why_the_iraq_war_wont_engulf_the_mideast.html) Yet, the Saudis, Iranians, … and prevent local conflicts from enveloping the entire Middle East.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Russia War Defense</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">No risk of U.S.-Russian war–Russia knows the U.S. is infinitely more powerful and that it couldn’t be a threat.</span>
__Bandow in ‘8__ **(Doug, former senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former columnist with Copley News Service, 3/7. Turning China into the Next Big Enemy. http://www.antiwar.com/bandow/?articleid=12472) In fact, America remains a … to be able to put him back together. US-Russian nuclear war highly improbable. Ball in ‘5 (Desmond, professor at the Strategic Defence Studies Centre of The Australian National University, May. “The probabilities of 'On the Beach'Assessing 'Armageddon Scenarios' in the 21 st Century,” Manning Clark House Symposium Science and Ethics: Can Homo sapiens Survive? http://www.manningclark.org.au/papers/se05_ball.html)**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The prospects of a nuclear … centres and leadership bunkers).</span>**

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Russia-China War Defense</span>**=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">China will never attack the Russian Far East–it would be diplomatic and military suicide</span>
__MENON 2003__ **(Rajan, Monroe J. Rathbone Professor of International Relations at Lehigh University, The National Interest, Fall)**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">By contrast, China's military, which was …, power and time may create in Russia's Far East.</span>**

==**Critiques**== 

===God Critique=== 

**__Contention 1 – The plan violates God’s will__**
<span class="Underline">**We should stop trying to secure and instead lower our defenses to god by embracing the vulnerability of their advantages.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Martin, ‘10</span>** – Catholic priest and author of 'The Jesuit Guide to (Almost) Everything' (Rev. James, 5/25 The Huffington Post //Want to Experience God? You Already Have: Vulnerability// [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rev-james-martin-sj/want-to-experience-god-yo_b_589728.html]] JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But in general, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">people do not turn to …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> of our innate desire for God</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

**Their attempt to solve case fails because it is based on pride.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cooper, ‘03</span>__** – Professor of Psychology at St. Louis Community College (Terry D., //Sin, Pride, and Self-Acceptance: The Problem of Identity in Theology and Psychology//, http://www.ptypes.com/pride-and-distrust.html LH) </span>
"Regardless of which form of …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> to establish our own security</span>__" (pg. 153).

**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">That uniquely turns case and proves they have a God complex</span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bradley, ‘09</span>__** **<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">–</span>** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Theologian (Michael, Bible Knowledge. //Pride will Come Before the fall// [[http://www.bible-knowledge.com/pride-before-fall/]] JB)</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">As part of the sanctification process …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> their own efforts and wisdom</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**God has a plan for all of existence; the affirmative runs counter to this and therefore denies god.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Deffinbaugh, ’09</span>** – graduated from Dallas Theological Seminary with his Th.M. in 1971. Bob is a pastor/teacher and elder at Community Bible Chapel in Richardson, Texas (Bob, 02/02/09, God’s Perfect Plan, [[http://bible.org/seriespage/god%E2%80%99s-perfect-plan]] LH)</span> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">When human plans </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">way, but he indeed learned:</span></span>

**__Contention 2 – God Exists__**
**Argument 1 is Cosmology proves**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ’10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain.. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The New Atheism and Five Arguments for God </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8088]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Everything that </span>__[[#_Toc276674756]]</span>

**Argument 2 is Fine tuning**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ’10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The New Atheism and Five Arguments for God </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8088]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">Before we discuss this argument,… of a teleological argument based on fine-tuning: </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
**The Dawkins evidence they will read to answer this has false premises and is a logical fallacy**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ’07</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain.. (William Lane, No Date</span>, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"What do you think of Richard Dawkins' argument for atheism in The God Delusion?" [[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=5493]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">What does follow from the six … most definitely does represent an advance in simplicity, for whatever that is worth.</span>

**Argument 3 is Value judgments**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kreeft and Tacelli, ‘94</span>__** – Professors of Philosophy at Boston College. (Peter and Ronald, 1994 //Handbook to Christian Apologetics Handbook of Christian Apologetics: Hundreds of Answers to Crucial Questions,// p. 54-55 JB) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 153.75pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">We notice around us </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">things</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> that </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… **of all perfections" -is God**</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

**Argument 4 is Ontology**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ‘10</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, No Date, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The New Atheism and Five Arguments for God </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=8088]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Plantinga’s version is formulated in …</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> some</span>__ //__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">prima facie </span>__//__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">warrant </span>__ </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**Our interpretation is correct—multiple early and independent testimonies to the resurrection narrative make it acceptable by any objective historical analysis.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ’07</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain.. (William Lane, No Date, </span>**//<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Subject: Independent Sources for Jesus' Burial and Empty Tomb</span>//** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.reasonablefaith.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=7047]] JB) </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in;">I'm glad to clarify this issue, Dave, [[#_Toc276674760]]</span>

**Jesus’ ability to control nature proves**
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #2e2e2e;">Little, ‘88</span>__**<span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8.0pt;"> – </span><span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8pt;">Until his death in 1975, Little was also associate professor of evangelism at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois.(Paul E. 1988. EveryStudent.org //Beyond Blind Faith// (adapted from //Know Why You Believe// by Little) </span>[[http://www.everystudent.com/features/faith.html|//http://www.everystudent.com/features/faith.html//]]<span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8pt;"> JB)</span> </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Christ demonstrated a … **"everyone will believe in Him**</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">."</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">17</span>__**</span>

**So does his rise from the dead**
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #2e2e2e;">Little, ‘88</span>__** <span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8pt;">– Until his death in 1975, Little was also associate professor of evangelism at Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in Deerfield, Illinois.(Paul E. 1988. EveryStudent.org //Beyond Blind Faith// (adapted from //Know Why You Believe// by Little) </span>[[http://www.everystudent.com/features/faith.html|//http://www.everystudent.com/features/faith.html//]] <span style="color: #2e2e2e; font-size: 8pt;">JB) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-size: 11pt;">Jesus' supreme credential to </span>____<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">…</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> this message to others, have been poor deluded fools.</span></span>

**Contention 3 is the alternative – we should unconditionally embrace God.**

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">**Seeking refuge in God relieves all dangers and gives us value to life.** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Rowe, ‘09</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Board of Directors of the Indiana Trial Lawyers Association, Lay Theologian (Tim, //The Magnificent Goodness of God and How It Will Transform Your Life,// p. 83-84 JB) </span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">We seek refuge in the Lord for …</span><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">error, he is helping open the door to Antichrist.</span></span>

**We must absolutely reject the plan to access our alternative – any reversal only links harder.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">BSBSR, ‘09</span>__** **–** Christian Database (The Berean Christian Bible Study Resources //Degrees of Sin/Punishment// [[http://www.bcbsr.com/topics/degrees.html]] JB) </span>
**__"<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">If they have escaped </span>…__** __been born of God."__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">1John 3:6-9</span>

**We control the key internal link to conflict**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">McCarthy, ‘03</span>** **–** Nobel Peace Prize Nominee, Priest of the Eastern Rite (Byzantine) of the Catholic Church. He is the founder and the original director of The Program for the Study and Practice of Nonviolent Conflict Resolution at the University of Notre Dame. (Emmanuel Charles, //Christian Just War Theory: The Logic of Deceit// pg 5.5-5.6 JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Does<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the omniscient and omnipotent </span>…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> of His sons and daughters</span>.</span>

(and) **value judgments**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ‘08</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, //Reasonable Faith Third Edition// 74-75 JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">If life ends at the grave</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, then </span>… of existence<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, and there is no one to say that you are right and I am wrong.</span></span>

(and) **meaning**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ‘08</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, //Reasonable Faith Third Edition// 71-72 JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Loss of God and Immortality </span>….<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Let’s look at each of these.</span></span>

**We subsume every impact they have**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig and Moreland, ‘03</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">– Research Professors of Philosophy at Talbot School of Theology in La Mirada, California. (William Lane, J.P. //Philosophical foundations for a Christian worldview// Ch. 27 [[http://www.bethinking.org/advanced/the-problem-of-evil.htm]] JB) </span></span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">3. </span>God's purpose is not …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> evils in faith and confidence in God.</span></span>

**Our impact is perpetual suffering for all eternity – we outweigh everything**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bowtie, ‘10</span>** – Politcal Scientist, PhD. (Elliot, 7/1 Professor Bowtie, //HEAVEN OR HELL: WHERE WILL YOU BE SPENDING ETERNITY?// [[http://www.bowtieprofessor.com/religion-and-politics/heaven-or-hell-where-will-you-be-spending-eternity-2010-07-1279]] JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hell is not a place where … their Lord and Saviour:</span></span>

====<span class="Underline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 110%;">A2: Biblical Inaccuracies</span>==== 

<span class="Underline">**The Gospels are unquestionably historically reliable – this card will smoke them.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ‘08</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain. (William Lane, //Reasonable Faith Third Edition// 335-336 JB) </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">No finer presentation of this point can be … case, that the gospels are authentic.</span></span>

**Inconsistencies in the Gospels are both minimal and non-contradictory, and in themselves have no bearing on the reliability of the Gospels – secular scholars agree.**
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Craig, ‘06</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="color: black;">William Craig earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, England, before taking a doctorate in theology from the Ludwig Maximiliens Universitat-Munchen, West Germany, at which latter institution he was for two years a Fellow of the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. He is currently a visiting scholar at the Universite Catholique de Louvain.</span>. (William Lane, 3/28 //Is There Historical Evidence for the Resurrection of Jesus?// </span>
//A Debate between William Lane Craig …//__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">in a tomb and </span>that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">three days later the tomb was </span>found <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">empty</span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>8

**The supposed contradictions their Dawkins evidence cites are not actually contradictions.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Miller, ‘08</span>__** – committed evangelical disciple of Jesus Christ, Philosopher, theologian (Glenn M., //Contradictions in the Infancy stories?//, http://christianthinktank.com/infancyoff.html LH) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 351.75pt;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Here is Matthew’s </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… have been ‘automatically included’</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

====<span style="tab-stops: 351.75pt;">A2: Cede the Political</span>==== 
**Our Link turn is not – our affirmation of life through God is key to revitalizing politics.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Bell, ’07</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – Associate Professor of Theological Ethics, Lutheran Theological Southern Seminary (Daniel M., </span>//Journal for Cultural and Religious Theory,// //The Politics of Fear and The Gospel of Life//, JCRT 8.2 SPRING 2007 55, http://wwvyjcrt.org/archJves/0jj,2/) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We might say that the Christ-event … **a glimpse of the politics of life.** </span>__

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A2: Schermer</span>==== 

**If they can somehow articulate how this is responsive – it’s based on bad data**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Chopra, ’07</span>__ (Deepak, m.d. chairman and co-founder of the chopra center for wellbeing, //Shermer-Chopra Afterlife Debate//, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/deepak-chopra/shermerchopra-afterlife-d_b_37776.html LH) </span>
<span class="UnderlinedChar1">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Shermer doesn't </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">…</span>__</span> of normal doesn't interest him. 

===**<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">Baudrillard Critique</span>**=== 

====1nc Shell==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We now live in a world of simulation—the political is dead and with it goes its ideas. The game has fundamentally changed: policy elites manipulate us with dead, simulated power. In this way, liberal-democratic fascism uses consumerism and propaganda to complete the masking of oppression and the fabrication of image-capitalism.</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Paul </span>////__Hegarty 2004__ 7/30 Jean Baudrillard: Live Theory P. 91-93 MRL//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The era of simulation, or hyperreality brings … is built on ‘the ruins of the symbolic and ceremonial edifice of former societies’ 65; 69).</span>//

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The affirmatives simulation games represent the worst form of the new political world. The political has failed and democracy is dead. The global system and the elites drive every event we see yet we feel empowered when we believe we have influence. The desire to be intertwined with the national system by simulating disasters is only dis-empowering participation in the imperialism of hyper-reality.</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jean </span>////__Baudrillard 1994__ Simulacra and Simulation p. 12-13 MRL//
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If once we were able to view the Borges fable in which the … produced from a radiating synthesis of combinatory models in a hyperspacewithout atmosphere.</span>//

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Debate is Disneyland—the rediculous simulation games we play naturalize nuclear policy-making in the real world. Conceals the inherent unreality of the world outside the round—the terminal impact is limitless nihilism.</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jean </span>////__Baudrillard 1994__ Simulacra and Simulation p. 12-13 MRL//
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Disneyland is a perfect model of all the … materialization of life and to undiscoverable contradictions. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The government functions as a global power source that justifies itself as necessary. Our catastrophe games make envisioning a world without catastrophe impossible—our own games will simulate themselves into real destruction.</span>
//__Baudrillard, ‘94__// //(Jean, The Illusion of the End, p. 66-71)// //<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We have long denounced the capitalistic, … to stage its own death as a species.</span>//

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This dangerous system will simulate its death over and over to precipitate repetitive band aids until it becomes absolute and inevitable.</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Jean </span>////__Baudrillard 1994__ Simulacra and Simulation p. 19 MRL//
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Everything is metamorphosed into its opposite to … of its already seen and of its already dead. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">War and genocide are inevitable in a world of the hyper-expansive nature of the state in the status quo. The state will inevitably collapse while taking the whole world down with it. We have two options, either go down burning or experiencing a rebirth.</span>
__Beres, ‘94__ [Louis Rene Beres, Professor @ Purdue University, SPRING, 1994, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, SELF-DETERMINATION, INTERNATIONAL LAW AND SURVIVAL ON PLANET EARTH, pg. Ln 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Yet, this situation is enormously ironic. … who created peoples and hung a faith and a love over them: thus they served life." [[@http://web.lexis-nexis.com.proxy2.cl.msu.edu:2047/universe/document?_m=dbe5f83c3c45c74963b88d3d906a0d5d&_docnum=8&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkVA&_md5=e91981aa6e1fb388288aa3777f7e8cc3#n32|32]]</span>

We need to refuse the demand of constituting ourselves as subjects of the political. When the masses __do nothing__, we can be liberated 
__Baudrillard, ‘81__ (Jean, Simulacra and Simulation, p. 84-86 MRL) 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">With one caution. We are …and regeneration of meaning and of speech.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A2: Perm</span>==== 

**Reform is the worst of leftist garbage, they take the inherently corrupt system and try to use its corruption to correct itself. Without eliminating the bad, there can be no good.**
**Jean __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; padding: 0in;">94</span>__ Simulacra and Simulation p. 12-13 MRL**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Watergate is not a …formula of exchange</span>__**).

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Dng Communications Critique</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1nc Shell</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Their macro-political advocacy maintains the status quo fascist bureaucracy – we should instead seek to recreate </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">everyday</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;"> existence. </span>**
**<span style="margin-left: .25in; tab-stops: 477.0pt;"><span class="UnderlinedChar">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Marks, ’05</span>__ </span>(John, 2005, </span>The <span class="highlight">Deleuze dictionary,</span> Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, p. 227-229 LH)**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">'Representation'</span>__<span style="color: #0c0c0c;">, for Deleuze,</span> __…__ to trace becomings back to origins.**

**<span class="UnderlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Their political communication is the lynchpin for a violent fascism of the everyday. </span></span>**
**<span style="margin-left: .25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Guattari, ’92</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">(Felix, </span></span>Pour une refondation des pratiques socials, 1992, reprinted in The Guattari Reader, p. 265 LH)**
**__Social and moral <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">progress is </span>… <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">to be </span>thereby <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">composed</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">This system of control suppresses life and freedom—</span> __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">we should hijack speech to elude control</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">.</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">(underlined is alt text)</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Deleuze and Negri, ’90</span>__ (Gillex and Antonio, Control and Becoming, http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpdeleuze3.htm)**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Deleuze: What I've been interested …</span> __breakers, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">so we can elude control</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">.</span>**

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">2nc Overview</span>==== 

**they have no benefits to their action because they don’t have their hands on the levers of power.**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Schlag, ’91</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">(pierre, colorado law prof. 139 u. Pa. L. Rev.801, april) For these legal thinkers,</span> <span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">it will </span>… using a different metaphor</span>.

====New 2nc Overview==== 

Their withdraw of forces uniquely magnifies the impacts of the state system – plus we turn case.
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Buchanan, ‘05</span> (Ian holds the foundation Chair of Communication and Cultural Studies at Charles Darwin University, “War in the age of intelligent machines and unintelligent government,” Australian Humanities Review Issue 36, July 2005) 
<span class="Underline">This, according to Deleuze and Guattari, "is …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> it enters its most terrifying phase</span>. </span>

<span style="tab-stops: 91.5pt;"><span class="Underline">(and) </span></span> the alt solves case 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Evans and Guillaume, ‘10</span> (Brad, lecturer in the School of Politics and International Studies at the University of Leeds, and Laura, PhD in International Politics at Aberystwyth, “Deleuze and War: Introduction,” Theory and Event, Vol 13, Issue 3, Project Muse) 
<span style="tab-stops: 50.25pt;"><span class="Underline">Gilles Deleuze’s work displays an … which claims to hold the key to universal truth.</span></span>

====Role of the Ballot 2nc==== 
**The role of the ballot is to vote for the best form of political communication – that’s transformative**
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.25in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pindar and Sutton, ‘2k</span>__ (Ian and Paul, //Introduction to The Three Ecologies//, p. 8-13 LH)</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">There are many refrains … accident and chance</span>__.'15

====Link 2nc==== 

**Engaging in macro-politics obscures the everyday by militantly enforcing a universal vision of what the world means – deterring everyday change – our lives stay in stasis, that’s Marks – their discourse links.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ‘96</span>** (Jean, //The Perfect Crime//, p. 149) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">Such is the allegory of … they resemble us less and less… </span>

====<span class="Underline">Impact 2nc</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">Value Systems will be reproduced in their exact forms as long as micro-fascism proliferates – we demand structures of discrimination continue in the name of our ideology, that’s Guattari. – that outweighs.</span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Lanza, ‘09</span>__** (Robert Lanza is considered one of the leading scientists in the world. He is currently Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Cell Technology, and a professor at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. "Does Death Exist? New Theory Says 'No'", http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-lanza/does-death-exist-new-theo_b_384515.html) </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Many of us fear </span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">…</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> from one world to the other</span>__?

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">They become the atomic assassin, annihilating the world with control.</span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari, ’80</span>__** (Gilles and Felix, //A Thousand Plateaus//, p. 345-346) </span>
Material thus has three principal … safeguards, to the threat of the atomic bomb.

**That justifies destruction of the 4th world**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kato, ’93</span>__** (Masahide, professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Hawaii, “Nuclear Globalism: Traversing Rockets, Satellites, and Nuclear War via the Strategic Gaze,” Alternatives 18:3, p. 339-360) </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Nuclear war </span>____has been …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> itself as a historical fact</span>.__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">They cause error reps</span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in; tab-stops: 230.25pt 292.5pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ‘94</span>__** (Jean, //The Illusion of the End//, p. 66-71) </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">We have long denounced …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> to stage its own death as a species</span></span>__. 

====A2: Perm==== 

**__Herd Disad__ —war and genocide are inevitable in a world of the hyper-expansive nature of the state animated by individuals.**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Beres, ‘94</span>__ (Louis Rene Beres, Professor @ Purdue University, SPRING, 1994, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, Self-Determination, International Law and Survival on Planet Earth, LN)**
**<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">Yet, this situation is enormously … them: thus they served life." </span>[[@http://web.lexis-nexis.com.proxy2.cl.msu.edu:2047/universe/document?_m=dbe5f83c3c45c74963b88d3d906a0d5d&_docnum=8&wchp=dGLbVlz-zSkVA&_md5=e91981aa6e1fb388288aa3777f7e8cc3#n32|32]] </span>**

**__Nihilism Disad__ —perm causes nihilism—impact is microfascism and bankrupted politics.**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Seem, ’73</span>__ <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">(Mark D., </span>Liberation of Difference: Toward a Theory of Antiliterature, 1973, JSTOR LH)**
**<span class="UnderlinedChar">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">When Hegel speaks of … thinks <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">differences “differentially</span></span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>**

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">A2: Cede the Political</span>==== 
**Any comparative risk that the alt gives us a new way to do micro politics means we access the best framework for what the ballot should communicate.**
**<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="UnderlinedChar">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari, ’80</span>__</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-left: 0.25in; text-decoration: none;"> (Gilles and Felix. </span>A Thousand Plateaus. p. 214-215)
<span style="tab-stops: 90.15pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Doubtless, fascism invented the …</span><span class="UnderlinedChar">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">with molecules both personal and collective</span>__</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

Aff gets coopted – kills agency
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shaffer, ‘10</span>__ – teaches at the Southwestern University School of Law. B.S., Law, 1958, University of Nebraska, Lincoln; B.A., Political Science, 1959, and J.D., 1961, University of Chicago; Member, Colorado and Nebraska State Bars (Butler, April 14, //How We Lost Our Souls,// [[http://www.lewrockwell.com/shaffer/%20shaffer214.html|http://www.lewrockwell.com/shaffer/ shaffer214.html]] LH)</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The central theme of my writing … of making the world free, peaceful, and productive. </span> </span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Promoting public activism only allows stupidity to rise in politics. Political engagement can only make things worse.</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ’10</span>__** (Jean, Carnival and Cannibal; Ventriloquous Evil, p. 13-18 LH)
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">This is the whole paradox of power. </span>__…__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> without any power I would say that all is not lost' (Elias Canetti).</span> </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; text-decoration: none;">We should remain silent in macro-politics—that’s a superior strategy</span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard, ‘94</span>__** (Jean, Simulacra and Simulation//, p. 84-86 MRL)//
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">With one caution. We are face to …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> and regeneration <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">of meaning</span> and of speech</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span></span>

==Afghanistan Neg== 

===India Da=== 

**A quick troop decrease collapses US-India relations**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kaplan, ‘10</span>__** (Robert, august 5th, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, South Asia’s Geography of Conflict, www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf)
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">He or she who sits in Delhi with his … </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">deserts Afghanistan, it deserts India</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>

**US-India relations key to investment—solves warming**
**__Burns, ‘10__** (William J. Burns, Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs “India’s Rise and the Future of the U.S.-India Relationship” http://www.cfr.org/publication/22326/indias_rise_and_the_future_of_the_usindia_relationship.html)
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Our strategic dialogue this week …</span>__ rates while sparing the world billions of tons of potential carbon emissions by 2030. </span>

**Warming kills billions. Risks extinction.**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cummins and Allen, ‘10</span>__** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline">The hour is late. Leading … "business as usual."</span></span>

====Turns Heg==== 
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">Relations solve education </span>**////<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal;">(cooperation would make us more competitive, increase technology that helps our math and science programs, and allow for the US to model Indian business schools while increasing soft power and leadership)</span>//
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">//**__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">Tellis, ‘09</span>__**// //<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal;">(Ashley J. Tellis, </span>//Senior Associate, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace,//<span style="font-style: normal;"> Asia Society ‘9, Delivering on the Promise: Advancing US Relations with India, January 2009)</span>// </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">As India looks toward its …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> part of the world’s workforce.</span>

Education is key to competitiveness and leadership 
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Gates, ‘07</span>__</span> (Bill Gates, Chairman and former CEO of Microsoft, Founder of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, “How to Keep America Competitive”, Washington Post, February 24, 2007, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/02/23/AR2007022301697.html) </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">For centuries people assumed …</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the problem </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">-- the issue is political will.</span></span>

====Link 2nc==== 
**India is worried we aren’t committed- any change in commitment would tank relations**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__Sen__** 11/5/**__10__** (Ashish Kumar Sen, The Washington Times, “McCain: India fears U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan”, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/nov/5/mccain-india-fears-us-withdrawal-afghanistan/?page=1, November 5, 2010) </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 387.75pt 411.75pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Fears about a premature …</span>__ al Qaeda and abide by the Afghan Constitution. </span>

**Withdrawal causes India to cut ties with the US and causes them to form coalitions with Iran – that causes us to retaliate diplomatically**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__Sullivan, ’10__** (Tim Sullivan, AP News, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/36768129/, “India, Pakistan face off in Afghanistan”, April 25, 2010) </span>
New Delhi's biggest … it was these Indians who helped." 

====Free Trade Impact==== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Close relations and consultation are key to solving protectionism</span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Tellis, ‘09</span>__** //<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ashley J. Tellis, </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Senior Associate, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, //Asia Society ‘9, Delivering on the Promise: Advancing US Relations with India, January 2009]// </span></span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Economics will power …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">addressing US agricultural subsidies. </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Shift From Free Trade Risks Nuclear Wars </span>**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Miller and Elwood, ’88</span>__** (Vincent H. Miller and James R**.** Elwood**,** President and Vice President, International Society for Individual Liberty, “Free Trade or Protectionism? The Case Against Trade Restrictions,” 1988**,** http://www.isil.org/resources/lit/free-trade-protectionism.html<span class="MsoHyperlink">)</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">When the government of … then, for the following reasons: </span>

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rare Earth Metals Da</span>**=== 

Presence in Afghanistan key to prevent Chinese monopoly on rare earth metals
__Chang, ‘10__ **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-weight: normal;">– Forbes Columnist (Gordon, The Taliban: World's Next Minerals Superpower, 16 July 2010, http://www.forbes.com/2010/06/16/taliban-minerals-afghanistan-asia-opinions-columnists-gordon-g-chang.html)</span> <span class="Underline">Most significantly, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Afghanistan has …</span> on rare earths--or it can help the Chinese tighten their grip over global markets.</span>**

Key to tech innovation, nano and hegemony
__Hurst, ‘10__ **– Lieutenant Commander, USNR. Research Analyst in the Foreign Military Studies Office at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. (Cindy, China’s Ace in the Hole: Rare Earth Elements, 27 Oct. 2010, http://mandobob.wordpress.com/2010/10/27/chinas-ace-in-the-hole-rare-earth-elements-by-cindy-a-hurst/)**
**<span class="Underline">In Nezavisimaya Gazeta, Alexander … maintain its lead in military technology. JFQ</span>**

Innovation key to solve extinction 
__Kurzweil, ‘08__ **– BS in Computer Science and Literature in 1970 from MIT, header of tons of entrepreneurial projects (Ray, 13 April 2008, Making the World A Billion Times Better, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2008/04/11/AR2008041103326.html) ellipses in original**
**<span class="Underline">This exponential progress in the … will spread around the globe.</span>**

Rare earth elements are key to all missile guidance systems for first-strike capabilities and nuclear primacy 
__Kennedy, ‘10__ **(J. Kennedy, March, President of Wings Enterprises, “Critical and Strategic Failure of Rare Earth Resources,” http://www.smenet.org/rareEarthsProject/TMS-NMAB-paperV-3.pdf)**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">national defense issues are</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> …” materials and components for weapons systems in favor of “the principles of free trade.”</span></span>**

Accuracy upgrades are key to ensure counterforce capabilities as the arsenal is inevitably reduced
__McDonough, ‘09__ **(David S, Doctoral Fellow at the Centre for Foreign Policy Studies at Dalhousie University, March, “Tailored Deterrence: The ‘New Triad’ and the Tailoring of Nuclear Superiority,” http://www.canadianinternationalcouncil.org/download/resourcece/archives/strategicd~2/sd_no8_200)**
**<span class="Underline">Less noticed is <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the continuing modernization … disarming counterforce strikes</span>.</span>**

Loss of U.S. nuclear primacy causes global nuclear war
__Caves, ‘10__ **(John P, Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction at the National Defense University, January, Strategic Forum, No. 252, “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent,”)**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Perceptions of a compromised … terrorists</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> alone </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">could inflict</span></span>**

===Inkblot Cp 1nc=== 
<span class="Underline">**Text: The United States federal government should end the inkblot approach to counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan in favor of a ‘drones and bones’ approach to counterinsurgency in Afghanistan, including the withdrawal of all superfluous United States military presence consistent with this approach** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Counterplan solves the entirety of the case – causes the same shift to counterterrorism the 1AC evidence describes but keeps COIN doctrine in place** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Buchanan, ‘10** Paul, Paul G. Buchanan studies issues of strategic, comparative and international politics and is a regular contributor to Political Science Quarterly. “Two Sides of the Afghan COIN” 6/29 http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1006/S00208.htm </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, another factor is in the mix, and … by Generals McChrystal and Petreus. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span class="Underline">**The net-benefit is civilian casualties – COIN rules of engagement include restriction against indiscriminate bombing campaigns which cause civilian backlash and turn the case.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Marvin, ‘10** Taylor, blogger for Prospect Journal, UCSD Journal of International Affairs, “Is COIN in Afghanistan Realistic? cont.” 10/13 http://prospectjournal.ucsd.edu/blog/?p=356 </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Counterinsurgency theorists acknowledge three … civilian deaths and the increased risks to soldiers’ lives it brings. </span></span>

====Perms 2nc==== 
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">**Our competition arguments are based off COIN doctrine – empirically units abandoning COIN doctrine has resulted in civilian casualties—frames what soldiers value in combat**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="Underline">**Whitlock, ‘10** Craig, staff writer at the Washington Post “Brigade linked to Afghan civilian deaths had aggressive, divergent war strategy” 10/14 http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-yn/content/article/2010/10/13/AR2010101306280.html?hpid=topnews </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">When the 5th Stryker Combat Brigade arrived in /// the behavior of the accused. </span></span></span>

====A2: COIN Bad==== 
**All of the 1AC ‘COIN bad’ arguments are specific to the inkblot strategy – only reason for large troop presence**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**Buchanan, ‘10** Paul, Paul G. Buchanan studies issues of strategic, comparative and international politics and is a regular contributor to Political Science Quarterly. “Two Sides of the Afghan COIN” 6/29 http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1006/S00208.htm </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 70.5pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dismissal of General Stanley McChrystal as … allies, not on large-scale kinetic operations.</span></span></span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Solvency F/L</span>=== 

COIN inev
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Ward, ‘09__ **(Celeste, Countering the Military's Latest Fad, 17 May 2009, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/05/15/AR2009051502069.html)** </span>
**When Defense Secretary Robert M. __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… very future of warfare</span>__.**


COIN is causing a shift away from weapons modernization vis-à-vis China 
<span style="text-indent: 0.25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Crowley, ’10</span>__ **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, The New Republic staff writer, 1/4/2010, "COIN Toss," http://www.tnr.com/article/world/coin-toss) </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The stakes for the United States in … Army’s counterinsurgency manual.</span>**


Impact is interlocked Chinese modernization—makes war inevitable 
<span style="text-indent: 0.25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Twomey, ’09</span>__ **(Chris Twomey, National Security Affairs Dept. Assistant Professor, Contemporary Conflict Center Co-Director, Feb 2009, "Chinese-U.S. Strategic Affairs: Dangerous Dynamism," http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism)** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">China and the United States are not in a strategic …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> stability in an intense crisis</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">. </span>__**


COIN is critical to future military capabilities – wars will be based on asymmetrical tactics. 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Nagl, ’09__ **– President of the Center for a New American Security, former Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, 1-1-9 (John, “Let's win the wars we're in,” Joint Forces Quarterly)** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">A stunning if predictable development in the military …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> the irregular conflicts the force is currently fighting</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**


Those capabilities are critical to solving failed states 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Nagl, ’09__ **– President of the Center for a New American Security, former Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, 4-1-9 (John, “Letter to the Editor,” Joint Forces Quarterly)** </span>
**Some serious thinkers now …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> to emanate from failing states than from aggressor states</span>__" (JFQ 52, 3).**


Nuclear war 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__African Studies Centre, ‘03__ **(The Transnational Institute, The Center of Social Studies, Coimbra University, and The Peace Research Center – CIP-FUHEM, “Failed and Collapsed States in the International System,” December, found at: http://www.globalpolicy.org/nations/sovereign/failed/2003/12failedcollapsedstates.pdf)** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In the malign scenario of global … on their national security. </span>**


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">CMR Adv F/L</span>=== 

Non-Unique – Obama is in control now
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Boot 12/27__**/10 – Snr Fellow, CFR. Master’s in diplomatic history, Yale (Max, Surge Protector, 27 December 2010, http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/surge-protector_523538.html?nopager=1)** </span>
**The past year, culminating in last week's …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> of his presidency—and he's acting and talking like it</span>__.**


Empirically denied 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Peabody, ’01__ **– Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, 4-10-1 (John, “The ‘Crisis’ in American Civil Military Relations: A Search for Balance Between Military Professionals & Civilian Leaders,” USAWC Strategy Research Project, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA390551&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])** </span>
**Alarmists, who have attempted to … appropriate military behavior, and aid us in better understanding the limits of the alarmists’ arguments.**


The theory of CMR are flawed – the military doesn’t know the politics of war. 
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Owens, ‘08</span>__ **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">[Mackubin Thomas, December 29, editor of Orbis and professor of national-security affairs at the Naval War College in Newport, R.I. He is writing a history of U.S. civil-military relations, and his study of Lincoln’s wartime leadership will be published in early 2009 by the Foreign Policy Research Institute, “Scholar & Gentleman : Sam Huntington, R.I.P.” http://article.nationalreview.com/381736/scholar-gentleman/mackubin-thomas-owens]</span>** </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__There are a number of flaws in …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> between these political goals and military means. </span>**</span>

No Brink 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Peabody, ’01__ **– Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, 4-10-1 (John, “The ‘Crisis’ in American Civil Military Relations: A Search for Balance Between Military Professionals & Civilian Leaders,” USAWC Strategy Research Project, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA390551&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]])** </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">While the alarmists are incorrect in …</span>__ mythical notion of the alarmists.**


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Diplomacy Add On F/L </span>=== 

They lead to binding cuts on CO2 emissions 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Halamkar, ’09__ **(12-15-9 (Samar, “World looks to Mexico 2010 to get global warming fix,” http://www.livemint.com/2009/12/14233757/World-looks-to-Mexico-2010-to.html)** </span>
**On a day when __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the venue of climate … Chinese government, and it gives no preference to us, but it is the only way</span>__.”**


Turn – CO2 restrictions cause methane leaks – Net increase in warming 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Yelin-Kefer, ’01__ **– M.E.S. from the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies and J.D. Yale Law, 1 (Jennifer, “Warming up to an International Greenhouse Gas Market: Lessons from the U.S. Acid Rain Experience,” Stanford Environmental Law Journal, January, 20 Stan. Envtl. L.J. 221)** </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">While a limited CO<2>-only approach is … an "array of unanticipated, complex tradeoffs</span>__." n172**


Turn – Binding cuts cause global protectionism 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Competitive Enterprise Institute__ **12-2-**__97__ **(“Kyoto Media Advisory,” http://www.cei.org/gencon/003,02747.cfm)** </span>
**Still, policy does have implications. __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">To …</span>__ the Byrd-Hagel resolution __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">may</span>__ well __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">evolve into</span>__ a new force for __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">protectionism</span>__.**


We solve all of their terminal impacts -- Free trade increases the cost of conflict 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Griswold, ’98__ **– Associate Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the CATO Institute, 12-31-98 (Daniel, “Peace On Earth, Free Trade For Men,” CATO Institute Daily, http://www.cato.org/dailys/12-31-98.html)** </span>
**Advocates of free trade have long argued that … goods cannot cross borders, armies will."**


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Heg Adv F/L </span>=== 

Status quo solves heg 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Haas 12/13__**/10 – CFR president. Lecturer in public policy, Harvard. DPhill, Oxford (Richard, The Endgames in Iraq and Afghanistan, 13 Dec. 2010, http://www.cfr.org/publication/23619/endgames_in_iraq_and_afghanistan.html)** </span>
**For nearly a decade, American foreign policy has … of the twenty-first century, many of which are in Asia.**


Empirically denied 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Lawrence, ’09__ **– assistant editor, the national interest (Edward, America in Decline? Think Again, 28 October 2009, http://www.realclearworld.com/articles/2009/10/28/america_in_declinethink_again_97299.html)** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The chorus of declinists has returned. Imperial …</span> __of policy innovation from our leaders today.__**</span>


Plan kills international cred 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Twining, ‘09</span>__ **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia – German Marshall Fund of the US, former Member of Sec. State. Condi Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, former Transatlantic Fellow and Dir. Of Foreign Policy Program – German Marshall Fund of the US, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”, 9-30, [[http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan]]) </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The surreal belief in some quarters that abandoning Afghanistan -- …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> cedes its influence, power, and moral example to others who share neither our interests nor our values. </span>__**


This is a bigger internal link than the aff 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Tunç, ‘08</span>__ **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Hakan Tunç, Professor of Political Science at Carleton University, Fall 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669) </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Reputation can be defined as a judgment about an actor’s past … would vindicate U.S. sacrifices.13</span>**


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Econ I/L F/L </span>==== 

There’s no economy internal link – Afghanistan will only cost .2 percent of our GDP 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Carafano, ’10__ **– Senior Research Fellow for National Security at the Heritage Foundation & Director of the Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, 1-2- 10 (James, “Obama must win fast in Afghanistan or risk new wars across the globe,” http://gazettextra.com/news/2010/jan/02/con-obama-must-win-fast-afghanistan-or-risk-new-wa/)** </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">None of this is to suggest that …</span>__ security, the cost of failure in Afghanistan would be incalculably high.**


No econ internal link and no dollar dump 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Levy and Brown, ‘05__ **(David H. Levey and Stuart S. Brown. March/April 2005. The Overstretch Myth. http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/60615/david-h-levey-and-stuart-s-brown/the-overstretch-myth)** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Would-be Cassandras have been predicting …</span> __bolsters U.S. predominance rather than undermines it.__**</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Overstretch I/L F/L </span>==== 

No overstretch – QDR promotes flexibility 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Hicks, ‘10__ **– Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Strategy, Plans, and Forces—Samuel J. Brannen—Special Assistant to the Deputy Under Secretary. (Kathleen, Force Planning in the 2010 QDR,** http://www.ndu.edu/press/force-planning-in-the-2010-QDR.html**)** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In preparing for the 2010 QDR, DOD identified three …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> U.S. power projection operations</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**


No overstretch or deficit internal link—they don’t affect heg 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Lieber, ‘08__ **- Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown University (Robert, “The Declinists Are Wrong Again,” Perspectives Papers on Current Affairs, 7/30, http://www.biu.ac.il/Besa/perspectives47.html)** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Declinists Are Back Scarcely a day goes by …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> pose an imminent danger of overstretch</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


No overstretch—recruiting at all time high 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Peter, ‘09__ **(Thomas A. Peter is a staff writer for the Christian Science Monitor. “High unemployment means high military recruitment.” November 12, 2009. http://www.csmonitor.com/USA/Military/2009/1112/p17s01-usmi.html DA August 9, 2010)** </span>
**As a construction worker in southern … 73 percent of recruits scoring above average.**


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Insurgency Adv F/L </span>=== 

Withdrawal causes terrorism and destroys Pakistan’s support 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Carafano, ‘10__ **(James— Ph.D, Deputy Director, The Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, served in the army for 25 years, graduate of West Point, previous assistant professor at the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, 11/21, “Winning in Afghanistan is Key to Foiling Terrorist Plans”, http://heritage.org/Research/Commentary/2010/11/Winning-in-Afghanistan-is-Key-to-Foiling-Terrorist-Plans)** </span>
**Without NATO boots on the ground, the … to finish the job successfully. Completing that mission is essential to keeping our homeland safe.**


The Internal link outweighs 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__O’Hanlon 11/8__**/10 (Michael—senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and co-author with Hassina Sherjan of Toughing It Out in Afghanistan, 2010, “How to Win Back Pakistan”, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/11/08/how_to_win_back_pakistan?page=0,2)** </span>
**But even if limited Pakistani … creatively enough about how to fix it.**


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Pakistan Impact F/L </span>==== 

Pakistani instability not caused by US presence 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Zaidi, ‘10__ **– Lecturer, Policing and Criminal Investigation, University of Central Lancashire (2010, Syed, “Negotiations and the anti-Taliban Insurgency in Pakistan” Asian Politics & Policy, v.2, n.2)** </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Taliban in Pakistan are … swathes of civilian territory</span>__.**


No Pakistani collapse – empirically 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__AP, ‘10__ **(Pakistan's stability, leadership under spotlight after floods and double dealing accusations, 6 August 2010, http://www.foxnews.com/world/2010/08/06/pakistans-stability-leadership-spotlight-floods-double-dealing-accusations/)** </span>
**Not for the first time, Pakistan appears to be … to only about 20 million of the country's 175 million people.**


No impact – U.S. has secured nukes 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> Rajghatta, ’07 **– foreign editor and the United States correspondent for the Times of India. He did his masters in Mass Communication from Bangalore University, Bangalore (Chidanand, Nov 20, 2007, //Pak// //nukes already under US control: Report//, http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/Pak-nukes-already-under-US-control-Report/articleshow/2556824.cms)** </span>
**<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON: <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pakistan's nuclear weapons are … seize the nuclear arsenal if there was imminent danger of an extremist takeover</span>.</span>**


Alt cause – Drones 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Blankey, ‘09__ **– Visiting Senior Fellow in National-Security Communications at the Heritage Foundation (Tony, " A Nuclear Talibanistan?,” 4/15, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/04/15/a_nuclear_talibanistan_48923.html)** </span>
**The problem is that __<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">the united …</span>__ an uprising by the population of Pakistan?"**


No solvency – others would go in 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Rubin__ **3/8/**__10__ **– Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute (2010, Michael, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” http://www.aei.org/article/101753)** </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Pakistan, Russia, Iran, and even …</span>__ of U.S. national interests.**


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Terrorism Impact F/L </span>==== 

Terrorism declining 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Sageman, ‘09__ **- adjunct Associate Professor at the School of International and Public Affairs and former case officer for the CIA (Marc, “Confronting al-Qaeda: Understanding the Threat in Afghanistan,” Perspectives on Terrorism, vol. 3 n.4,http://www.terrorismanalysts.com/pt/index.php?option=com_rokzine&view=article&id=92&Itemid=54)** </span>
**5. Counter-terrorism is working. The escalation from a more … that these strikes are also targeting al-Qaeda allies with a transnational agenda.**


Al Qaeda isn’t key to terrorism 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Sageman, ‘09__ **- adjunct Associate Professor at the School of International and Public Affairs and former case officer for the CIA (Marc, “Confronting al-Qaeda: Understanding the Threat in Afghanistan,” Perspectives on Terrorism, vol. 3 n.4,http://www.terrorismanalysts.com/pt/index.php?option=com_rokzine&view=article&id=92&Itemid=54)** </span>
**The above statistics are crystal …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">where a few amateur wannabes are transformed into dangerous terrorists</span>__.**


No internal link—Al Qaeda doesn’t need a sanctuary to launch from 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Metz, ‘10__ **– Chairman: Regional Strategy, and Planning; Research prof of nat sec affairs, Strategic Studies Institute, Naval War College. PhD, John’s Hopkins (Steven, America's Flawed Afghanistan Strategy, August 2010,http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=1014)** </span>
**Both the Bush and Obama strategies … and training camps will cripple al-Qaeda. Yet there is no evidence to validate this idea.**


Even if terrorists stole a complete warhead, they couldn’t use it 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__KAMP, ‘96__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Karl-Heinz, heads the foreign and security policy section of the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung in Sankt Agustin, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, July) </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">However, </span>__even if a terrorist organization … of the combination of requirements.__**

==Japan Neg== 
===Deterrence Da=== 
====1nc Shell==== 
Even the plan’s partial withdrawal destroys the overall credibility and actual ability of our commitment throughout Asia. 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Lawless, ‘10__ **– former deputy undersecretary of the U.S. Department of Defense in charge of Asia-Pacific affairs (Richard P., As interviewed by YOICHI KATO, Asahi Shimbun Senior Staff Writer http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201003040361.html)** </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Any relocation out of Japan</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> of all or even a major part of … suggest that the departure of the Marines would call into question the basic sustainability of this alliance as it is. </span>**

That solves Sino-Taiwan war 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Alagappa, ’03</span>__ **– Senior Fellow East-West Center PhD, International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy Tufts University (Muthia, “Asian security order: instrumental and normative features”, p. google books)** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The United States has also intervened in the …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> to deter China without isolating or provoking it</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**


Global nuclear war 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hunkovic, ’09</span>__ **– American Military University (Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf)** </span>
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">A war between China, Taiwan and </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span>__ not be considered in this study.**

====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Link 2nc</span>**==== 
Top commanders agree – they decimate overall perception and capabilities throughout the region 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Japan Today 10/22/10__ **(“U.S. Marines in Okinawa necessary for deterrence: U.S. commander,” 2010, http://www.japantoday.com/category/national/view/us-marines-in-okinawa-necessary-for-deterrence-us-commander)** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The outgoing </span>__<span style="color: black;">commander of U.S… process’’ is in place</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> concerning the plan to relocate the Marines’ Futenma Air Station within Okinawa Prefecture </span>**</span>

====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A2: Pan</span>**==== 
China is a threat 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Maginnis</span>**, 8/6/**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">10</span> **– Maginnis, a Retired Army lieutenant colonel, a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television and a senior strategist with the U.S. Army (Robert, //Winning the New Cold War//, http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=38425)** </span>
**[[#_Toc278750139]]<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> to advance its hegemonic ambitions</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">. </span></span>**

New developments prove 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Canadian Press, 2/10__**/11 (//US intel chief says assertive Chinese behaviour increases chance of conflict with neighbours//, http://www.google.com/hostednews/canadianpress/article/ALeqM5hBAR4fw3umJzadmlpGIjiEIpMDdw?docId=5910956 LH)** </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">WASHINGTON — </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">China's</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> view of its own </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">rising </span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">…</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> have since eased. </span>**

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">BMD Adv F/L </span>=== 
**Japanese Block II-A BMD destroys its constitution by violating Article 9**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wooksik, ‘07</span>__</span> (Cheong, 12/24, “Missile Defense Acts as a Trojan Horse”, http://english.ohmynews.com/articleview/article_view.asp?at_code=432927)** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Missile Defense Acts as a Trojan Horse to Disrupt … "North Korea Threat" and the "China Threat."</span>**</span>


**Article 9 is the lynchpin of world peace – any attempt at revision directly causes global war**
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">**<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Global Article, ‘09</span>__</span> (Campaign, project of the United Nations Global Partnership for the Prevention of Armed Conflict, Japan-based international NGO Peace Boat, Japan Lawyers' International Solidarity Association and others, Copyright 2008, “Article 9 as a Mechanism of Peace”, http://www.article-9.org/en/what/details2.html)** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Following the end of the war, Japan acquired its Self-Defense Forces (SDF). </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Article 9, the world wil</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">l only </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">take a step back in realizing this vision</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**</span>

BMD severely overstretches the navy 
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">__Cavas__**, 1/4/**__10__ **(Christopher P., staff writer for DefenseNews, 4 January 2010, “U.S. Navy Juggles Ships To Fill BMD Demands”, http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=4441026)** </span>
**No sooner did the Aegis ballistic missile defense (BMD) …__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> needs to be up here</span>__," he said, raising his hand high above his head. ■**


<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: white; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">A credible sea-based deterrent solves escalation of great power wars. </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: white; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Conway, Roughead & Allen, ‘07</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> (James Conway, General of U.S. Marine Corps and Commandant of the Marine Corps , Gary Roughead, Admiral of U.S. Navy and Chief of Naval Operations , Thad Allen, Admiral of U.S. Coast Guard and Commandant of the Coast Guard , "A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower", Department of the Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, <span style="color: black;">[[http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]]</span>) </span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black;">This strategy reaffirms the use of seapower to …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> aggressors conventionally</span>____<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, unconventionally, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">and with nuclear forces</span></span>__<span style="color: black;">. </span>**


==Korea Neg== 

===MSG PIC=== 

**Marine security guards boost good will for all of the Marines – Zero risk of the counterplan not solving as well as the plan. __Nichols__**__, 2/6/**10**__ – Captain (Rory, “Marine Security Guard Program at Risk: Can the Marine Corps Continue to Support the Program?, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA503392&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
<span class="Underline">From the Corps perspective, it is difficult to …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> the resources gained from the program</span>. </span>

**Marine security guards are critical to the safety of U.S. embassies and diplomatic credibility**
**__Bureau of Diplomatic Security, ’10__** – Department of State (“UNITED STATES MARINE SECURITY GUARDS SAFEGUARDING AMERICAN MISSIONS AROUND THE WORLD”, http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/138440.pdf)
In the face of daily threats worldwide, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">… a solid line of defense for American diplomacy</span>.

**Effective diplomacy is key to stop warming**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hague 9/27</span>__** /10 (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">But I particularly wanted to make the …. shape our world. And if we don't, the world will determine our destiny for us.</span>

**Warming kills billions. Risks extinction.**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Cummins and Allen ‘10</span>__** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">The hour is late. Leading climate scientists … determined to maintain "business as usual."</span></span></span>

====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A2: C02 Ag Turn</span>**==== 
**Warming kills food**
**__Strom, ‘07__** - Robert Strom, Professor Emeritus of planetary sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona, (studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center, a NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, “Hot House”, SpringerLink, p. 211-216)
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The future consequences of global warming are the …</span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> chaos with</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all their </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">ramifications for civilization. </span></span></span>

**Fertilization effect is not enough to offset the negative consequences of warming**
**__Stern, ‘07__** - Nicholas Stern—Head of the British Government Economic Service—2007 (Former Head Economist for the World Bank, I.G. Patel Chair at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review”, The report of a team commissioned by the British Government to study the economics of climate change led by Siobhan Peters, Head of G8 and International Climate Change Policy Unit, Cambridge University Press, p. 70)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Carbon dioxide is a basic building block for …</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> crop production are reached more often</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Warming will halt photosynthesis overwhelming any benefits of C02**
**__Brown, ‘08__** – Director and Founder of the global institute of Environment in the U.S., 2008 [Lester E. Brown, “Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization”]
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Higher temperatures can</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> reduce or even </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">halt … at 40 degrees Celsius, leading to crop failure</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.IR</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A2: GHGs Don’t Cause Warming</span>==== 
**Greenhouse gases lead to warming through feedback loops—established scientific consensus**
**__Stern, ‘07__ —Head of the British Government Economic Service (Nicholas, Former Head Economist for the World Bank, I.G. Patel Chair at the London School of Economics and Political Science, “The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review”, The report of a team commissioned by the British Government to study the economics of climate change led by Siobhan Peters, Head of G8 and International Climate Change Policy Unit, Cambridge University Press, p. 7-8) //__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The causal link between …</span>__ aerosols in the atmosphere (discussed later in this chapter)//**

====**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 20px;">A2: None in Korea</span>**==== 
**We do have Marine Security Guards in Korea**
**Smith, ‘2k** (Larry J., “MARINE CORPS SECURITY FORCES 2000,” [[http://orbat.com/site/us2002/files/8/Marine%20Corps%20Security%20Forces%202000.pdf]]) ***Note: The first number is the number of Marine Security Guard Officers, the Secoond number is the number of Marine Security Guards The Marine Security Guard**
**//…//**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Liberia 0 7 N'djamena, Chad 0 6 Niamey, Niger 0 6 Yaounde, Cameroon 0 6 TOTALS 3</span>//

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Econ Da</span>=== 

**Plan guts investment in South Korea which collapses its economy**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Magnum, ‘04</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">- Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea (Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Many </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Koreans ignore</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> the fact </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">that</span> …<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> its government spend the money necessary to improve the capability of its forces.</span>

**Independently, withdrawal will stop U.S. foothold in the Asian Pacific Market which will collapse the U.S. economy**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Kinne, ‘04</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">- Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691]//au)// </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Strategic </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">withdrawal of U.S. </span>…<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> China’s ascendancy into the global marketplace.</span></span>

**Global nuclear war**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Mead, ‘09</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Walter Russell, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, New Republic, February 4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2] </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have …</span> __back <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">on track, we may still have to fight.</span>__

**Turns the case – North Korea will take advantage of declining investment to start another war**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Yonhap News, ‘03</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (1/8/03, “South Korea's Defence Ministry asserts reasons for alliance with US military” pg online @ lexisnexis</span> <span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Seoul, 8 January: The Defence Ministry asserted the … further the existing alliance with the United States.</span></span>**
===**Fight and Win Cp**=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should deploy Artillery Fired Atomic Projectiles to the Eighth United States Army in Korea and develop a doctrine for their use.**

**The counterplan bolsters deterrence and makes nuclear threats credible**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">UPI</span> 10-29-20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">09</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (“Calls for nuclear weapons in South Korea,” [[http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Calls_for_nuclear_weapons_in_South_Korea_999.html]]) </span> With the U.S. defense chief in Seoul …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> neutralize the North's nuclear threat</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, he said. </span>**

**Solves the case and allows the US to deter, dissuade, and defeat North Korea**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">TAMSETT</span> 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">03</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(Jeremy, Graduate Research Assistant at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, “The Evolving U.S. Strategic Landscape: A Fresh Look at Low-Yield Nuclear Weapons,” December 1, [[http://www.gyre.org/news/article/3599/#fulltext]]) </span> __Diplomacy is the__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ?</span>__tool__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">in the chest? </span>__for …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> desirable answer to that dilemma</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

**Effective US ground forces in Korea are critical to the hold the line while reinforcements arrive—early North Korean successes would prevent the US from landing reinforcements**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Global Security.org</span>__ 20__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">10</span>__ (“OPLAN 5027 Major Theater War – West,” April 27, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/oplan-5027.htm) Pyongyang can credibly threaten the prompt … __conducting over-the-shore operations__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**

**Failure to reinforce South Korea and win the war crushes American hegemony**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Green, 5-27</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, writer and broadcaster, “North vs. South Korea: How Bad Could a War Get?” 5-27-2010, http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/north-vs-south-korea-how-bad-could-a-war-get/?singlepage=true) It’s almost certain that the South could …</span> __un-American. “<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Tread on Me</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>**

**Nuke war**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Khalilzad, ‘95</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalmay, RAND analyst and now U.S. ambassador to Iraq, The Washington Quarterly) Under the third option, the … more conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system.</span>**

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2nc Overview</span>==== 

Naval miscalc will draw in the US
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Sanger 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> – David, chief Washington correspondent for The New York Times (May 28, “ In the Koreas, Five Possible Ways to War”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/weekinreview/30sanger.html]]) </span>
__Ever since an …__ fleet was powerful enough to sink a fully armed South Korean warship.

The counterplan would force China to resolve the crisis—the US would subsequently withdraw
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Parker</span>__ 20<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">05</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (John Parker (BS, MS) is a freelance writer based in Thailand, Asia Times Online, Feb 23, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/GB23Dg02.html]]) </span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"># China's possible reaction to such a policy …</span> very least, he would have to come to terms on the nuclear issue.**

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A2: Airpower Solves</span>==== 

**Ground troops are critical—US Air Force assets in Korea are inadequately trained for rapid response**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Sharp, 10</span>__** (Gen. Walter Sharp, Commander, United Nations Command/Combined Forces Command/U.S. Forces Korea, Congressional Documents and Publications, March 26)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">My first priority as Commander of UNC, CFC, … to work with the ROK government to find a solution to this key training and readiness issue.</span>

**Ground troops key**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Kim, ‘99</span>__**—Associate Professor, Institute of Foreign Affairs (Sung, U.S. Military Presence in a Unified Korea, www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc)
Nevertheless, a drawback of this … __harm U.S.-China relations.__

**The first days are critical—a North Korean breakthrough means we lose the war**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">LA TIMES</span>** 4-22-19**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; padding: 0in;">94</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> ([[http://articles.latimes.com/1994-02-22/news/mn-25867_1_south-korean-war/5]]) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In recent years, Pyongyang has also …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> that we would sue for peace</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">."</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A2: We Solve War</span>==== 

**Racial ideology and nationalism make war inevitable – and the North Koreans have been fooling us**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Manason 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Althea, "Pressure to bolster North Korean leader makes war inevitable," The National Post, http://www.nationalpost.com/news/story.html?id=3085070, 5/28/10) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">While some experts believe tensions on the …</span> __move by North Korea, but rather a consequence of the nation’s need to “up the ante.”__

**Deterrence will break down – secessionism crisis**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Sanger 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;"> – David, chief Washington correspondent for The New York Times </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 6pt;">(May 28, “ In the Koreas, Five Possible Ways to War”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/weekinreview/30sanger.html]]) </span>
__Ask American intelligence … son on the same track at the same time, because <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">accidents do happen</span>.__
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]