**1AC**

**Inherency**

**Withdrawal is inevitable, but Obama signaled a shift from the original July 2011 timetable by replacing McChrystal Petraeus.**

**Riedel, 6/28/10** - Former Obama Advisor <span style="font-weight: normal;">(Bruce, Interview with Spiegel, “McChrystal has made a Fool of </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">himself,” Spiegel, [[http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/0,1518,703243,00.html]] CT)</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">**Plan Text:** </span>
The United States Federal Government should phase out its combat troops from Afghanistan starting July 2011.

<span style="font-weight: normal;">**ADV1: Heg**</span>

**The United States merely needs to maintain its status as a global hegemon. Primary negative scenarios wrong for why military presence are wrong - staying in Afghanistan will only weaken U.S. hegemony.**
**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Innocent, 09</span>**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;"> – </span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">Foreign Policy Analyst Cato Institute (July 2009, CQ Researcher, “Afghanistan Dilemma” http://library.cqpress.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/cqresearcher/document.php?id=cqresrre2009080706&type=hitlist, IC)</span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">

</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">No strategic, political or economic...</span>and economically than would withdrawl

**Continuing to commit to larger military footprint in Afghanistan undermines U.S. hegemony in several ways:** 

**First, public support for counterinsurgency will only last for 3 years. While Obama taking ownership for the war reset this clock, the American public will demand improvement by the end of the year. Such improvement is empirically denied - parallels between Afghanistan and 1949 Communist China prove.** 

**Gvosdev, 6/25/10** - former editor of the National Interest (Nikolas, “The Realist Prism: Knowing When to Walk Away from Afghanistan,” World Politics View, [[http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/5891/the-realist-prism-knowing-when-to-walk-away-from-afghanistan]] CT)

The Obama administration is running...to Chiang than to Uribe.

**Material preponderance not key – if public support for engagement collapses, then unipolarity will unravel**
**<span class="BoldandUnderlineCharChar">Kupchan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="BoldandUnderlineCharChar">‘2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of International Relations, Georgetown University, (Charles A. , The End of the American Era: US Foreign Policy and the Geopolitics of the Twenty-First Century, p. 63)</span>

The second trend that will... American resources will remain supreme.

**Second, continuing counterinsurgency efforts in Afghanistan will overstretch the military.**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro 10</span></span>** - Visiting Scholar @ Carnegie (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” May 24th, Carnegie, <span style="color: black;">http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863</span>)

The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan...would overstretch the U.S. Military.

**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Empirically, hegemonic overreach is unsustainable because it destroys diplomatic negotiation as a political tool - it is critical to understanding recurrent global crises and flaws in U.S. hegemony.</span>**

<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Florig, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;"> - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_code1259934.pdf?abstractid=1548783&mirid=1 ) JB</span></span>

The theory of hegemonic overreach... destroy your way of life.

**Third, large military footprint in Afghanistan skewing spending in favor of defense spending. This unbalanced approach undermines U.S. primacy.** 

**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Norris and Sweets, 10—</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Executive Director of Enough and a research associate at American Progress, </span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">(6/8/10, John and Andrew, Center for American Progress, “Less Is More: Sensible Defense Cuts to Boost Sustainable Security,” [[http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/06/less_is_more.html]]) CS</span>

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Our current international posture is...in promoting our interests internationally.</span>

**American primacy is vital to accessing every major impact—the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse.** 
**<span style="color: black;">Thayer, 06 - </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Professor of security studies at Missouri State (November 2006, Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)</span>

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">A grand strategy based on...the equivalent of a blitzkrieg.</span>

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">**ADV2 Afghan Stability** </span>

**US can’t win – unclear objective, can’t replace opium, safe havens in Pakistan, killing increases terrorist recruitment.** 

**O’ Connor ’10 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">former executive director of the Australian Defense Council (6/23/2010, Michael, “Best We Can Do is to Pull Out of Afghanistan” [[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/best-we-can-do-is-to-pull-out-of-afghanistan/story-e6frg6zo-1225882965439]]) HG</span> 

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">This is a war that...protect Australia from terrorist attack.</span>

**Prolonging military presence in Afghanistan will only allow Islamic extremist takeover of Pakistan**
**Kristof, ‘9** <span style="font-weight: normal;">**-** a columnist for The Times since 2001, is a two-time Pulitzer Prize winner (Nicholas D., 9/6, “The Afghanistan Abyss,” New York Times, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/06/opinion/06kristof.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print]] CT)</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">President Obama has already dispatched...of American and Afghan blood.</span>

**Islamic extremist takeover of Pakistan leads to nuclear war.**
**Ricks, 01** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and covers Iraq for the Washington Post Staff Writer (Thomas E., 10/21/01, “Some Fear Regional Destabilization, Retribution Against U.S” http://cndyorks.gn.apc.org/news/articles/warconsequences.htm, IC)</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">The prospect of Pakistan being...an expert on strategic games.</span>

**Extinction**
**Fai 7/8/01** (Ghulam Nabi; Executive director - Kashmiri American Council) Washington Times l/n wbw)

<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">The foriegn policy of the...impending fissle material/cut-off convention.</span>

**Setting clear deadline solves Afghan stability two ways - (1) ensures credible negotiations between Taliban and Karzai and (2) mobilizes assistance for Kabul.** 

**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif"; font-size: 12pt;">Schlesinger, 10—</span>** an Adjunct Fellow at the Century Foundation in New York City, former Director of the World Policy Institute at the New School University in New York City Governor Mario Cuomo’s speechwriter and foreign policy advisor for 12 years (3/10/10, Stephan, “The Only Way Out Of Afghanistan Is With A Withdrawal Deadline,” [[http://takingnote.tcf.org/2010/03/the-only-way-out-of-afghanistan-is-a-withdrawal-deadline.html]]) CS

What else does a deadline...the US reduced its own.

**ADV 3 NATO Alliance**

**NATO alliance is crumbling now due to U.S. bullying of NATO allies in Afghanistan- Afghanistan is decisive moment for alliance. Only way to save NATO is to allow it to withdraw from Afghanistan.**

**Bacevich, ’10** - a professor of history and international relations at Boston University <span style="font-weight: normal;">(Andrew J., March/April, “Let Europe be Europe: Why the United States Must Withdraw from NATO,” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/let_europe_be_europe?page=0,1]] CT)</span>

Over the course of the...to manage its own affairs.

**NATO competence to engage in bilateral communication with Russia key to preventing aggression
Rossiyskaya Gazeta 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Russian newspaper featured on a British paper “June 22, 2010, Rossiyskaya Gazeta Russia’s foreign minister Sergei Lavrov on relations with Nato, Georgia, and the WTO, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/sponsored/russianow/politics/7847648/Russias-foreign-minister-Sergei-Lavrov-on-relations-with-Nato-Georgia-and-the-WTO.html]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">You said that NATO partners...which would be very dangerous.</span>

**Russia will launch preemptive nuclear strikes with follow-up nuclear attacks to ensure its own safety
BBC ’09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(December 16, 2009, British Broadcasting Channel, ITAR-TASS “<span class="ssl0">Russia may face large-scale military attack, says Strategic Missile Troops chief,” </span><span class="verdana">Lexis Nexus, BD)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As regards military threats facing... missile strikes" the commander explained.</span>

**War with Russia would result in use of enhanced radiation, EMP, and improved nuclear weapon designs
Schneider 06 -**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> analyst for US Nuclear Strategy Forum (2006, Mark, “The Nuclear Forces and Doctrine of the Russian Federation,” [[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/Russian%20nuclear%20doctrine%20--%20NSF%20for%20print.pdf]]) BD</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Russia, today, we see...pigheaded, want to fight the Americans.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**Solvency**</span>

**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Obama should follow deadline established in December 2009. Five reasons: (1) Karzai government corrupt, (2) presence increases Taliban’s funding, (3) U.S. won’t support drug lords, (4) Pakistan undermining US by funding Taliban, and (5) NATO is withdrawing in July 2011 and U.S. cannot fight alone</span>**

**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Sarro ’10</span>**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;"> - </span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">studied International Relations and Peace and Conflict Studies at the University of Toronto. (6/23/2010, Doug, “Five Reasons to Withdraw from Afghanistan Sooner Rather Than Later” <span style="font-family: "Times","serif";">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-sarro/five-reasons-to-withdraw_b_621903.html]]</span>) HG</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Gen. Stanley McChrystal talent for...and finish withdrawing soon after.</span>

**AND, combat troops unnecessary to stabilize Afghanistan– offshore balancing solves Afghanistan.** 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**Innocent & Carpenter, 09** - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Foreign Policy Analyst at Cato Institute, AND ** Vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato Institute (9/14/09, Cato Institute, “Escaping the ‘Graveyard of Empires’: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10533, IC) </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the nature of the...a chronic, but manageable, problem.</span>

**LASTLY, continuing a large military footprint without a clear deadline causes the worst case scenario - fast, complete military and political withdrawal, triggering all the negative’s turns. Withdrawing troops critical to prevent the American public from burnout.** 

**Moselle 09 -** former Acting Executive Director of the Carr Center, former project manager for both the National Security and Human Rights and the Sate Building and Human Rights projects, Carr Center for Human Rights Policy (10/1 Tyler, “Responsible Withdrawal from Afghanistan, Homeland Security Today, ”http://www.hks.harvard.edu/cchrp/sbhrap/news/ _HSToday_20091001.pdf”, KK) CS

Thoughtful proponents of increasing US...rebelling against a foreign occupation.