[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Impact Defense</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bio-Diversity</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. Empirically denied and alternate causality – hundreds of thousands of species die annually</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Paltrowitz, 01 (JD Brooklyn Journal of I-Law, 2001 (A Greening of the World Trade Organisation”)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> However, the panel...environmental policies." n108</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. Species extinction won't cause human extinction – humans and the environment are adaptable</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Doremus, 00 (Holly, Professor of Law at UC Davis Washington & Lee Law Review, Winter 57 Wash & Lee L. Rev. 11, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In recent years...species. This functional redundancy means that a high proportion of species can be lost without precipitating a collapse.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. New species fill the void</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kerr, 94 (Richard, Science 28)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the immediate...create a new ecological order (See box on p.29).</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Alt Causes</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 30% of all species became extinct in the last 35 years</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CBC, 08 (5/16/08 Canadian Broadcasting company http://www.cbc.ca/technology/story/2008/05/16/species-decline.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Human activity...the conference website says.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, one species goes extinct every twenty minutes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Science Daily, 02 (1/10/02 http://209.85.141.104/search?q=cache:Ys6ffti2ncsJ:www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2002/01/020109074801.htm+One+species+extinct+20+minutes&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=1&gl=us)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Although the extinction...wilderness area are destroyed.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---No Extinction</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, there’s no reason their species loss will snowball</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sagoff, 97 (Mark, Pew Scholar in Conservation and the Environment and past President of the International Society of Environmental Ethics “Do we consume too much?” The Atlantic Monthly, June)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There is no credible argument...be vital cogs in the ecological machine."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, species extinction is natural – your impact is denied by 4.5 billion years of history</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Morano and Washburn, 00 (Marc Morano and Kent Washburn, WorldNet Daily, 2000 Part 1 Shaky science behind save-rainforest effort New TV documentary finds skeptics among researchers, http://www.bio.net/bionet/mm/ag-forst/2000-July/015413.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Stott agrees that the...is a natural process," he asserts.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Collapse Common</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> And, species extinction actually works on an S curve where the species flirts with a carrying capacity and dips up and down</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Farabee, 5/18/10 -- Ph.D. (Michael J., "Factors Influencing Population Growth", POPULATION ECOLOGY, Online Biology Text Book, May 18th 2010, July 30th 2010, http://www.emc.maricopa.edu/faculty/farabee/biobk/biobookpopecol.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Chinese Modernization</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">They can’t solve—

A. Naval insecurities
McDevitt, 08 – Rear Admiral, Center for Naval Analyses At the IISS-JIIA Conference (Michael, 6/24/08, “Asian Military Modernization: Key Areas of Concern” http://www.iiss.org/conferences/global-strategic-challenges-as-played-out-in-asia/asias-strategic-challenges-in-search-of-a-common-agenda/conference-papers/fourth-session-an-asian-arms-race/asian-military-modernization-key-areas-of-concern-michael-mcdevitt/, KONTOPOULOS)
The threat of invasion, the primary worry of Chinese or indeed most Eurasian...in preserving stability in the region.

B. Taiwan
Lowther, 09 – Taipei Times, staff writer (William, 3/12/09, “Driving Chinese military goals”, http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/front/archives/2009/03/12/2003438279, KONTOPOULOS)
US National Intelligence Director...years ago,” Webb said.

C. Regional heg
Finkelstein, 07 – Vice president and Director of CNA China Studies (David, 2/6/07, “
“PROJECT ASIA” & THE CHINESE STUDIES CENTER, CNA CORPORATION. Debate at the Carnegie Endowment – “IS CHINA’S MILITARY MODERNIZATION PROGRAM A GROWING THREAT TO THE UNITED STATES AND ASIA?”, p. 8-9, KONTOPOULOS) PDF
So the next question is, what is it that’s driving this reform...off the Chinese littoral.

D. Laundry list they don’t solve for
Fravel, 08 – Assistant professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M. Taylor, Summer 2008, Washigton Quarterly, “China's Search for Military Power”, Lexis Nexis, KONTOPOULOS)
Why is China modernizing...especially over Taiwan.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economy</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. No impact because other actors check, the economy won’t decline enough, past recessions prove we’ll recover, and world war two wasn’t caused by the depression</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. Economic recovery won’t happen for decades – we are in a post-bubble recession which eliminates any possibility of growth</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Gosselin, 09 – National Economics Correspondent for the Los Angeles Times (Peter G., “U.S. economy may sputter for years,” Los Angeles Times, January 19th 2009, May 21st 2010, http://articles.latimes.com/2009/jan/19/business/fi-econ19?pg=1, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Reporting from Washington...more than anemic recovery."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 3. No historical connection between economic collapse and conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ferguson, 06 – M.A., Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard University, Resident faculty member of the Minda de Gunzburg Center for European Studies, Senior Research Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford University, and a Senior Fellow of the Hoover Institution, Stanford University (Niall, “The Next War of the World”, Foreign Affairs, September-October 2006, May 21st 2010, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nor can economic...were not followed by wars.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 4. US not key to world economy – the housing crisis ended American financial hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Espinoza, 08 (Javier, Forbes.com. “Steinbrueck: U.S. Losing Its Financial Superpowers” http://www.forbes.com/facesinthenews/2008/09/26/steinbrueck-german-minister-face-markets-cx_je_0925autofacescan01.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In the light of the...resolve any kind of problem."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 5. The world economy is more resilient than ever – one issue can’t cause economic collapse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Behravesh, 06 (Nariman Chief economist and executive vice prez @ global insight, 2006, “the great shock absorber; Good macroeconomic policies and improved microeconomic flexibility have strengthened the global economy's 'immune system.'”, Newsweek, p. lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The U.S. and global economies...even smaller impact on overall GDP growth.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 6. The US economy is resilient – financial crisis proves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bowman, 08 (Michael, VOA news. “Bush Economic Advisor: US Economy Remains Resilient” http://voanews.com/english/2008-10-19-voa24.cfm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> President Bush's...loosening credit in the country.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 7. Economy shortfalls are natural part of the business cycle, it’ll bounce back</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cooley, 11/25/09- Ph.D. in Economics, Professor of Economics and Dean of New York University's Stern School of Business (Thomas, Financial booms and busts 'are inevitable'; Academic expects the next economic crisis to follow the same path as the one the world is experiencing now and it will involve a similar breakdown in confidence", South China Morning Post, November 25th 2009, December 1st 2009, Lexis Nexis, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Another financial crisis is inevitable because...but what they don't do is occur with predictability," he said.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC---Default Neg</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Prefer our authors – their evidence is biased by economic Stockholm syndrome</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Dornbrook, 10 – Reporter for the Kansas City Business Journal, **Citing Brian Wesbury – Chief Economist for First Trust Advisors and Author (James, "Economist: Ongoing rebound gives reason for optimism", January 8th 2010, May 21st 2010, http://kansascity.bizjournals.com/kansascity/stories/2010/01/04/daily46.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> People should start...and that recovery is under way, he said</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---No War</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Studies prove economic decline doesn’t lead to war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Miller, 00 – Professor of Administration at the University of Ottawa (Morris, Interdisciplinary Science Review, Vol. 25, No. 4, 2000, May 21st 2010, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The question may be reformulated....form of violence to abort another).</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Terrorism---Generic</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. There is no risk of another major terrorist attack – there have been no domestic attacks since 9/11 and terrorists have learned that such efforts are counterproductive</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Mueller, 06 (John, Foreign Affairs, September October 2006, p.2)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A fully credible explanation...persecuting some, spying on many, inconveniencing most, and taxing all to defend the United States against an enemy that scarcely exists.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 2. Terrorists are not pursuing WMD – it is impractical and against their moral code</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Parachini, 03 (RAND Policy Analyst, The Washington Quarterly, Putting WMD Terrorism into Perspective, Volume 26 Issue 4, 2003, http://www.twq.com/03autumn/docs/03autumn_parachini.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> An apparent lack...eliminate Israel as a state is decidedly political.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---No Risk</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lower casualties and no scenario for getting weapons or attacking</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Healy, 10 – Vice President at CATO and Author (Gene, "Terrorism Isn't an 'Existential Threat'", CATO Institute, April 6th 2010, April 9th 2010, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11660, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> As the analysts at the Human...grade uranium disappearing.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It’s too hard to pull off, no terrorists and small attacks don't access their impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Schneier, 10 – Crytographer, Computer Security Specialist, Writer, M.A. from American University (Bruce, "Schneier on Security", Bruce Scheneier Blog, May 5th 2010, May 7th 2010, http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/why_arent_there.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Why Aren't There More Terrorist Attacks? ...you're probably going to slip up and get caught.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Not Pursuing WMDs</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This is empirically proven</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Frost, 05 (Robin, teaches political science at Simon Fraser University, British Colombia, “Nuclear Terrorism after 9/11,” Adelphi Papers, December)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The overwhelming majority...limited and unconvincing.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>