[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
=====__**Greenhill RR Aff**__===== 
V – Morality

<span style="color: black;">Respect for autonomy is not just a rational requirement, it is the rational requirement.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], //Self to Self// (2006), 44.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> The value of persons… disregard for persons. </span>
S – respecting the inviolability of innocent persons

Negative duties are absolute, even on an international scale.
<span style="color: black;">Thomas Pogge [Director of the Global Justice Program and Leitner Professor of Philosophy and International Affairs at Yale University], “Cosmopolitanism,” //A Companion to Contemporary Political Philosophy// (Second Edition, Vol. 1 – 2007), edited by Goodin, Pettit, and Pogge, 328.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> As can be learned… this agent’s conduct. </span>

Contention One: Nuclear War

Subpoint A: Even if nuclear weapons won’t be used, their possession is immoral.

Possession of nuclear weapons disrespects the inviolability of innocent persons.
<span style="color: black;">C.A.J. Coady, [Professor of Philosophy, University of Melbourne], “Deterrent Intentions Revisited,” “Ethics” 99:1 (Oct. 1998), 98-108, at 101-102.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> McMahan’s case is… they are immoral.</span>

<span style="color: black;"> Even if there is no harm to people in the status quo, nuclear weapons harm future generations.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> MATTHEW RENDALL [Lecturer in Politics and International Relations, University of Nottingham] “Nuclear Weapons and Intergenerational Exploitation,” Security Studies 16, no. 4 (October–December 2007): 525–554</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Notably, nuclear deterrence… own miserable hides. </span>

Subpoint B: The possession of nuclear weapons disrespects the inviolability of innocent persons because it increases the already unacceptable risk of catastrophe.

A limited nuclear war would result in global cooling.
<span style="color: black;">The Editors of Scientific American, Summary of Robock and Toon’s “Local Nuclear War, Global Suffering,” Scientific American (January 2010), 74.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Nuclear bombs dropped… models are correct. </span>

Risk of nuclear deterrence failure high.
<span style="color: black;">Martin E. Hellman [Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering, Stanford; co-inventor of public key cryptography] “The Odds for Nuclear Armageddon. Fork in the Roads: Choosing the Future for Engineers. ” THE BENT OF TAU BETA PI SPRING 2008, 20-21. JMN</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in;">While much less… would find accepetable. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Contention Two is the Stability-Instability Paradox</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;"> In a nuclear-armed world, states are struck in the stability-instability paradox, which makes war and escalation inevitable.</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in;">Michael Krepon [Founder, Stimson Center – Nonpartisan Global Security Think Tank], “The Stability-Instability Paradox, Misperception, and Escalation Control in South Asia” (May 2003), 18-19</span>

The twining of limited… of its capabilities.

This trend is empirically verified.
<span style="color: black;">Robert Rauchhaus [Assistant Professor of International Relations and Methodology, UC Berkeley], “Evaluating the Nuclear Peace Hypothesis: A Quantitative Approach” presented at the 2007 annual meeting of the American Political Science Association. p19</span>
<span style="color: black;"> As the results… the conflict scale.</span>

<span style="color: black;"> The impact is conventional war.</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Zlad Obermeyer (research scientist), Christopher Murray (institute director), Emmanuela Gakidou (associate professor). “Fifty years of violent war deaths from Vietnam to Bosnia: analysis of data from the world health survey programme.” June 19, 2008.</span>

<span style="color: black;"> Affirming would increase stability across the board. </span>
<span style="color: #010101;">International Panel on Fissile Materials [independent group of arms-control and nonproliferation experts from both nuclear weapon and non-nuclear weapon states], Appendix A to //Global Fissile Material Report// (2009).</span>
<span style="color: #010101;"> In 1984, disarmament… weapon-free world </span>

By contrast, a nuclear-armed world will face exponential rises in conflict because proliferation begets proliferation.
<span style="color: black;">Kyle Beardsley [Professor of Political Science, Emory] and Victor Asal [Professor of Political Science, SUNY Albany], “Winning with the Bomb,” Journal of Conflict Resolution 52 (Jan. 2009), 297. </span>
The findings here… powers slowly rises. 

=====**__Stock AC__**===== 

Value – Morality 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ethical reasoning is directed to satisfy all those who are affected. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Peter Singer “Practical Ethics” 1993. pp. 13-14 “The universal aspect of…for remaining utilitarians.” </span>

Criterion – maximizing human life 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 1: Nuclear Terrorism </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First, the theft of nuclear fissile material by terrorists is likely. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Travis Sharp and Erica Poff [The Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation], "Understanding and Preventing Nuclear Terrorism" (Dec 3, 2008) "In his 2008... South African government" </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Second, the smuggling of nuclear weapons to non-state actors is likely. AQ Khan in Pakistan proves. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Charles D. Ferguson and William C. Potter [The Center for Nonproliferation Studies], "The Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism" "In Pakistan... hands of terrorists" </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Third, if third world countries get access to weapons the likelihood of transferring nuclear weapons to terrorists is high. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Stephen Peter Rosen [Harvard College Professor and Beton Michael Kaneb Professor of National Security and Military Affairs at Harvard University. In addition to his academic work, Rosen was also Master of Harvard College's Winthrop House.], "After Proliferation: What to do if more states go nuclear" Council on Foreign Relations. Foreign Affairs, Vol. 85, No. 5 (Sep. - Oct., 2006), pp. 9-14. "One of the... as to punish it" </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Graham Allison, the leading expert on nuclear terrorism, describes a conservative estimate of a single nuclear terrorist attack. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Graham Allison 2007 [Director of Harvard’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs], “How Likely is a Nuclear Terrorist Attack on the United States?” Council on Foreign Relations Online Debate, April 17, 2007. Accessed April 16, 2010. "Let's run a... by 7.5 percent" </span>

Contention 2: Accidental Launch 

1). Resource constraints – New proliferators will lack necessary security and safety mechanisms. 
Nathan Busch 2004 (No End in Sight: The Continuing Menace of Nuclear Proliferation, University Press of Kentucky, 227). “There are likely……in the first place.” 

2). Proximity. New proliferators share contiguous borders with adversaries, heightening the risk of early warning failure. 
Scott Sagan [Scott Sagan, Professor of Political Science and Co-Director of the Center for International Security at Stanford University], "The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: A Debate Renewed" Chapter 2 More Will Be Worse. W.W. Norton & Company. “The third reason why…more challenging environment.” 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 3 is the Stability-Instability Paradox </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In a nuclear-armed world, states are struck in the stability-instability paradox, which makes war and escalation inevitable. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Michael Krepon [Founder, Stimson Center – Nonpartisan Global Security Think Tank], “The Stability-Instability Paradox, Misperception, and Escalation Control in South Asia” (May 2003), 18-19 “The twining of limited… of its capabilities.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">This trend is empirically verified. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Robert Rauchhaus [Assistant Professor of International Relations and Methodology, UC Berkeley], “Evaluating the Nuclear Peace Hypothesis: A Quantitative Approach” presented at the 2007 annual meeting of the American Political Science Association. p19 “As the results… the conflict scale.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The impact is conventional war. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Zlad Obermeyer (research scientist), Christopher Murray (institute director), Emmanuela Gakidou (associate professor). “Fifty years of violent war deaths from Vietnam to Bosnia: analysis of data from the world health survey programme.” June 19, 2008. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Affirming would increase stability across the board. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #030303; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">International Panel on Fissile Materials [independent group of arms-control and nonproliferation experts from both nuclear weapon and non-nuclear weapon states], Appendix A to //Global Fissile Material Report// (2009). “In 1984, disarmament… weapon-free world.”</span></span>
==Negative== 
=====**__Self Defense NC__**===== 

<span style="color: black;">States are not moral actors, so the “ought” in the resolution is non-moral. </span>
Lloyd P. Gerson [Professor of Philosophy at the University of Toronto] “THE MORALITY OF NATIONS: AN ARISTOTELIAN APPROACH” <span style="color: black;">ARISTOTLE’S POLITICS TODAY. 2007. </span>P84 AG “another way to look….know that it won.” 

<span style="color: black;">It is permissible for states to act in self-defense. </span>
<span style="color: black;">John J. Mearsheimer [R Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science, The University of Chicago.] “Back to the Future: Instability in Europe after the Cold War” International Security, Vol. 15, No. 1 (Summer, 1990), pp. 5-56 AG. “conflict is common among…the expense of rivals.” </span>

<span style="color: black;">The standard is **self-defense** </span>

<span style="color: black;">It is permissible to possess nuclear weapons because states may have legitimate, prudential reasons to want them. </span>Kyle Beardsley [Professor of Political Science, Emory] and Victor Asal [Professor of Political Science, SUNY Albany], “Winning with the Bomb,” Journal of Conflict Resolution 52 (Jan. 2009), 296-297. JMN “Since August 9, 1945, no…. Matthew Fuhrmann (2009, this issue).”

== == 
=====**__<span style="font-family: Arial;">PALs CP</span>__**===== 

Text: The U.S. should offer permissive-action links (PALs) and information concerning safing, arming, fusing, and firing (SAFF) procedures to new proliferants in order to ensure the protection of newly acquired nuclear weapons. 
Solvency: PALs and SAFF procedures are effective. 
Charles D. Ferguson, William C. Potter, Amy Sands, Leonard S.. Spector, and Fred L. Wehling – 2005 [Ferguson is Science and Technology Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and an Adjunct Professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University; Potter is Institute Professor and Director of the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies], //The Four Faces of Nuclear Terrorism// (New York: Routledge), pp. 60-61. "Should a terrorist organization... launch-related delivery systems."

=====**__Small Forces CP__**===== 

TEXT: ALL STATES OUTSIDE OF THE P-5 SHOULD DISARM PERMANENTLY, AND ALL P-5 STATES SHOULD REDUCE THEIR NUCLEAR WEAPONS ARSENALS TO NO MORE THAN 200 WEAPONS. THIS REDUCTION IS KNOWN IN THE LITERATURE AS MOVING TOWARD “SMALL FORCES.”

DISARMAMENT INCREASES TENSIONS AND MAKES CONFLICT MORE LIKELY
Charles Glaser-1 [Professor of Political Science & International Affairs at GWU and Director for Security and Conflict Studies], “The Instability of Small Numbers Revisited: Prospects for Disarmament and Nonproliferation,” //Rebuilding the NPT Consensus// (October 16-17, 2007). Center for International Security and Cooperation. “The alternative argument seems… promising political relations.” 

THIS MEANS MORE NUKES AND A HIGHER CHANCE OF NUCLEAR WAR IN THE AFF WORLD.
Charles Glaser-2 [Professor of Political Science & International Affairs at GWU and Director for Security and Conflict Studies], “The Instability of Small Numbers Revisited: Prospects for Disarmament and Nonproliferation,” //Rebuilding the NPT Consensus// (October 16-17, 2007). Center for International Security and Cooperation. “The most obvious problem… lead in a rearmament race.” 

SMALL FORCES AVOIDS THE PROBLEMS OF DISARMAMENT, AND SOLVES THE AFF HARMS. 
Charles Glaser-3 [Professor of Political Science & International Affairs at GWU and Director for Security and Conflict Studies], “The Instability of Small Numbers Revisited: Prospects for Disarmament and Nonproliferation,” //Rebuilding the NPT Consensus// (October 16-17, 2007). Center for International Security and Cooperation. “Small, But Non-Zero, National… from a disarmed world.” 

=====__**De-Alert/Rload CP**__===== 
===== ===== 
<span style="display: block; line-height: 20pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; line-height: 20px;">I. Text: States ought to de-alert their missiles by removing them off hair-trigger alert and remove the Launch on Warning (LOW) policy and establish a Retaliatory Launch Only After Detonation (RLOAD) policy.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">RLOAD solves false warning. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Phillips and Starr [Alan Phillips is a retired physicist and physician who did radar research for the British army during World War II. He lives in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania. Steven Starr, who trained in nuclear engineering, works as a medical technologist in Columbia, Missouri.], “Replace Launch on Warning Policy” "It is not... goes to zero" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">De-alerting solves gaps in warning satellites, breakdown of systems, perceived vulnerability of command systems, and growing reliance on launch on warning policy. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thomas H. Karas “De-Alerting and De-activating strategic Nuclear Weapons” Sandias Report. (April 2001) "The continuous ability... of those systems" </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">De-alerting solves technical faults and failures, control system errors, miscalculation, and unauthorized use. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Arbatov et al [Institute of International Economy and Foreign Relations Russian Academy of Sciences], "De-Alerting Russian and US Nuclear Weapons: A path to reducing nuclear dangers" "The high alert... the nuclear weapons"</span>

=====__**Deterrence DA**__===== 

First, nuclear deterrence is effective in deterring major wars. 
Feldman, Shai. 2007. “Nuclear Weapons and Arms Control in the Middle East”; Center for Science and International Affairs. “effective deterrence requires….the state’s nuclear weapons.” 

Second, nuclear weapons deter conflict between major powers. 
<span style="color: black;">Bruno Tertrais (Senior Research Fellow, Foundation pour la Recherche Strategique), “The Illogic of Zero”, THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY, Center for Strategic and International Studies, APRIL 2010. <span style="color: blue;">[[http://wiki.victorybriefs.com/downloads/0816/Tertrais_10_The_llogic_of_Zero.pdf]]</span> “the equivalent destructive power…no economic rationality.” </span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
====Conseq AC==== 
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity. </span>

David Cummisky. Kantian Consequentialism. 1996. “<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">We must not… to save many.” </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The standard is minimizing suffering.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">I advocate a public health approach through decriminalization and the use of needle exchange programs. </span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation. “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Two significant and linked… sterile injecting equipment.”</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 1 is the harms. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1. “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Injecting drug users… in HIV prevention.” </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Injection drug use is the biggest cause of new HIV diagnoses. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Steffanie A. Strathdee and David Vlahov [Strathdee: Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Vlahov: Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, New York, United States.], "The effectiveness of needle exchange programs:A review of the science and policy" AIDScience Vol. 1, No. 16, (Dec 2001) aidscience.org/Articles/aidscience013.asp#37. FD “From the public health… epidemic takes hold.”</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20. </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">HIV/AIDS Causes global pandemics. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Laurie Garrett, Staff Writer AIDS AT 20 / An Evolving Epidemic / Scientists fear AIDS' future //Newsday - May 31, 2001// “Today, with the AIDS epidemic… DNA to cause disease.” </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The impact is extinction. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ZIMMERMAN 1996 (Barry and David, both have M.S. degrees from Long Island University, Killer Germs p 132) “Then came AIDS… is the virus”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 2 is the solvency:</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva. “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The above findings…</span><span style="color: #1b1c20; font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> has been fulfilled.”</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva. “</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Studies have searched… has been fulfilled.” </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Moreover, needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?,</span> <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hcvadvocate.org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html|http://www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis. “</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Needle exchange programs… accidental needle sticks.” </span>

==Negative== 

====**__Paternalism NC__**==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If we ought to prevent others from doing something that is wrong to other people, then we often ought to prevent others from harming their future selves. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Derek Parfit [Professor of Philosophy, Oxford], Reasons and Persons (1984), 231. “This claim strengthens…to other people.” </span>

The standard is **//preventing moral harm to future selves.//**

My thesis and sole contention is that government coercion is justified to prevent drug abusers from harming their future selves.

Drug abuse causes moral harm to future selves. 
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">GEORGE LOEWENSTEIN [Carnegie Mellon University] “Out of Control: Visceral Influences on Behavior” ORGANIZATIONAL BEHAVIOR AND HUMAN DECISION PROCESSES Vol. 65, No. 3, March, pp. 272–292, 1996 “</span>As visceral factors… so becomes inﬁnitessimal.” 

====Start DA==== 
=== === 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fred</span><span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> Kaplan, “</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Going to War Over a Treaty” </span><span class="Cites-AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">11/17/10 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.slate.com/toolbar.aspx?action=print&id=2275295|**http://www.slate.com/toolbar.aspx?action=print&id=2275295**]]</span> </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint B: Going soft on drugs is political suicide for Obama. Legalization or decriminalization will kill his political capital. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Joshua Keating—19 October 2009. [Associate Editor at Foreign Policy]. Is Obama winding down the war on drugs? Foreign Policy. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“In a column…of the debate.”</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint C: Without political capital , the treaty will collapse. Obama’s political capital is key. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Jonathon McLaughlin, Program Assistant at the Natural Resources Defense Council, 9/22. “The Road to New START Ratification and Beyond,”<span style="color: #0000f5;">[[https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=2b4328c3ca624bb68aaf30a15dd45876&URL=http%3a%2f%2fswitchboard.nrdc.org%2fblogs%2fjmclaughlin%2fthe_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html|http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/jmclaughlin/the_road_to_new_start_ratifica.html]]</span> </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Unfortunately, the polarizing…not a give.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Subpoint D: START prevents nuclear war. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Mike Blanchfield, “Obama’s Nuclear-Weapons Adviser Delivers Doomsday Scenario,” The Vancouver Sun//, July 4, 2009, available at<span style="color: #0000f5;">[[https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=2b4328c3ca624bb68aaf30a15dd45876&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.commondreams.org%2fheadline%2f2009%2f07%2f04-1|http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2009/07/04-1]]</span>. Accessed April 20, 2010.// </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">“Still, Blair and…them,” Blair said.” </span></span>


====ART CP==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">i. Text: Antiretroviral therapy will be used to curb the spread of HIV. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">ii. Competition: Net beneficial </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kevin M De Cock a, Siobhan P Crowley a, Ying-Ru Lo a, Reuben M Granich a & Brian G Williams a [Department of HIV/AIDS, World Health Organization, 20 avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland.] Bulletin of the World Health Organization 2009;87:488-488. doi: 10.2471/BLT.09.067330. ”Preventing HIV transmission with antiretrovirals” [[http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/87/7/09-067330/en/]] “Three of the most… in HIV prevention?” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">i. Solvency: </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Antiretrovirals decrease HIV transmission.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kevin M De Cock a, Siobhan P Crowley a, Ying-Ru Lo a, Reuben M Granich a & Brian G Williams a [Department of HIV/AIDS, World Health Organization, 20 avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland.] Bulletin of the World Health Organization 2009;87:488-488. doi: 10.2471/BLT.09.067330. ”Preventing HIV transmission with antiretrovirals” [[http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/87/7/09-067330/en/]] “There is little… partner is on ART.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Antiretrovirals could stop transmission within five years.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Elizabeth Landau, [CNN], “Expert: Using antiretroviral drugs early may curb HIV/AIDS spread”, [[http://articles.cnn.com/2010-02-20/health/hiv.antiretroviral.drugs_1_hiv-tests-antiretroviral-treatment-allergy-and-infectious-diseases?_s=PM:HEALTH]] “Antiretroviral drugs that… five years," Williams said.”</span>

== == 
=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; line-height: 18px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Equal Treatment AC </span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Observation 1: The affirmative burden is to prove only that a significant number of juveniles ought to be treated as adults in the criminal justice system. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“Ought” implies a moral obligation, thus I value morality. Respect for autonomy is not just a rational requirement, it is the rational requirement. Velleman, J. David Velleman [Professor of Philosophy, NYU], Self to Self (2006), 44. “The value of…disregard for persons.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This requirement generates an obligation to treat individuals as ends-in-themselves. Velleman 2: “If your happiness…over the latter.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">All people guilty of committing a crime ought to be punished. This ensures equality within a society. James Rachels [He received his Ph.D. in 1967 from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, studying under Professors W. D. Falk and E. M. Adams. He taught at the University of Richmond, New York University, the University of Miami, Duke University and the University of Alabama at Birmingham, where he spent the last twenty-six years of his career.], "Punishment and Desert” Ethics in Practice. “As we have…restores the balance.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Being consistent with applying fair punishment is key to preserving the social order. Howell: James C. Howell, former director of research and program development at the Office of Juvenile justice and Delinquency Prevention, 1997, Juvenile Justice & Youth Violence, p. 20 “In their second…concepts of justice.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">S: Distributing fair punishment</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Morse explains the requirements for moral responsibility.Stephen J. Morse [Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law; Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at UPenn Law School]. "Delinquency and Desert." Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 564, (Jul., 1999), pp. 56-80 at 64. “Rationality or normative…agent normatively rational.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Minimum competence is sufficient for moral responsibility. Morse 2: “But not all…their normative competence.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention one is that juveniles are able to realize the significance of their actions, thus they are rational. Ward: Ward, Cynthia V., "Punishing Children in the Criminal Law" (2006). Faculty Publications. Paper 102.[[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/facpubs/102]] “The argument against…such a theory.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention two is that juveniles possess the same rational cognitive capacity that adults do. American Psychological Association. (1990). Brief for Amicus Curiae in support of appellees, Hodgson v. Minnesota, 497 U.S. 417, No. 88-805. Washington, DC: Author. “Psychologists have generated…supports these principles.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Deterrence AC </span>=== 
=== === 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Knowledge is a matter of inference to the best explanation. Jonathan Vogel [Professor of Philosophy, Amherst College], “Skepticism and Inference to the Best Explanation,” Journal of Philosophy 1990, 4-5 “These remarks about… reject the competitors.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The deontological story is non-unified, ad hoc, and at odds with non-moral rationality. Phillip Pettit [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“There are at least… of practical rationality.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the standard is maximizing good consequences. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Treating juveniles as adults does not mean they are punished the same way. Barry C. Feld, [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Soci-ology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966.] “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy”, “The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology”, 88:1 pp.64-136 FD “Punishing youth does… on a voluntary basis.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention one is the harms.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">They commit millions of crimes each year but rates have steadily decreased as “get tough” policies were undertaken in the 90’s. Online lawyer source:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.onlinelawyersource.com/criminal_law/juvenile/statistics.html]] “Juvenile crime statistics… percent are strangers.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2) The JJS has high rates of sexual assault and violence. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Guards in the Florida JJS sexually assault and abuse the juveniles. Douglas E. Abrams [Associate Professor of Law, University of Missouri-Columbia School of Law], “Reforming Juvenile Delinquency Treatment to Enhance Rehabilitation, Personal Accountability, and Public Safety” The University of Oregon Law Review. 84 Or. L. Rev. 1001. 2005 FD “In early 2004, the… change his diaper.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. B. Juveniles suffer from physical and sexual assault at hands of other youths. Abrams 2 “At Bridge City, officers… broken noses and jaws.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. Overcrowding facilities increases violence. Abrams 3 “Overreliance on incarceration… their own frustration.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3) Recidivism has four impacts. Jane Wilson [Stanford’s Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US], “Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States” Roosevelt Review. Scribd. FD “The effects of recidivism… criminality cannot be understated.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 is solvency.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">First, if juvenile punishment increased proportionally with those of adults then juvenile crime rates would have dropped by 74%. Steven D. Levitt [Harvard Society of Fellows], “Juvenile Crime and Punishment” NBER Working Paper No. 6191. Law and Economics and Public Economics. (Sept 1997) FD “Using the results… relative to adults.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">if juveniles are not tried and punished as adults, rational juveniles will become aware that they can get preferential treatment and lenient sentences, making it easier for juveniles to carry out violent crimes. Benard, Thomas J. The Cycle of Juvenile Justice. Oxford University Press. New York, 1992. (p. 169) "Some youthful offenders...if they are caught." </span>

===Deterrence AC V2=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Knowledge is a matter of inference to the best explanation. Jonathan Vogel [Professor of Philosophy, Amherst College], “Skepticism and Inference to the Best Explanation,” Journal of Philosophy 1990, 4-5. “These remarks about …reject the competitors.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The deontological story is non-unified, ad hoc, and at odds with non-moral rationality. Phillip Pettit [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“There are at least… of practical rationality.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">the standard is maximizing good consequences. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">My sole contention is that treating juveniles charged with violent felonies as adults better deters crime.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint A: It is crucial to separate the concepts of deterrence and recidivism. General deterrence refers to discouraging would-be offenders from committing crime in the first place.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint B: The impact of violent felonies is huge.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Juvenile arrest rates for murder rose 177 percent over 15 years. Steven D. Levitt [Harvard Society of Fellows], “Juvenile Crime and Punishment” NBER Working Paper No. 6191. Law and Economics and Public Economics. (Sept 1997) FD “The divergence of juvenile… been relatively steady.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We will face a future wave of violence worse than we’ve seen in the 90’s. James alan Fox [Ph.D Dean, College of Criminal Justice Northeastern University], "Trends in Juvenile Violence: A report to the United States Attorney General on Current and Future Rates of Juvenile Offending" bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/pub/pdf/tjvfox2.pdf (March 1996) FD “From 1990 to 1994… past ten years.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The number of juveniles committing murder will increase to 5,000 a year and can increase by even more. James alan Fox [Ph.D Dean, College of Criminal Justice Northeastern University], "Trends in Juvenile Violence: A report to the United States Attorney General on Current and Future Rates of Juvenile Offending" bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/pub/pdf/tjvfox2.pdf (March 1996) FD “Even if the… increase even more.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Subpoint C: Trying juveniles charged with violent felonies as adults reduces violent crimes. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Levitt 2- Steven D. Levitt [Harvard Society of Fellows], “Juvenile Crime and Punishment” NBER Working Paper No. 6191. Law and Economics and Public Economics. (Sept 1997) FD “Equation 4 is estimated… presented in Table 4.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">In perspective, this finding means roughly 60 percent of the variation between juvenile and adult crime rates can be explained exclusively by the severity of punishment. Levitt 3 “Using the results… rates relative to adults.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This is not merely a spurious correlation. There are three causal warrants:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Increasing the severity of punishment increases the costs of crime. Bernard, Thomas J. The Cycle of Juvenile Justice. Oxford University Press: New York, 1992. (p. 169) “Some youthful offenders… if they are caught.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Trying juveniles as adults means their records are not expunged once they reach the age of majority. Barbara Boland “Fighting Crime: The Problem of Adolescents” The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-) Vol. 71, No. 2 (Summer, 1980), pp. 94-97 “The confidential nature… his/her criminal career.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. The fact that relative differences in the punitiveness of juvenile systems independently confirms that deterrence is the causal mechanism. Levitt 4 “Evidence that a substantial… is the operative force.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Underview:</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. I only treat juveniles who commit violent crimes </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. I defend treating juveniles and adults in separate facilities. Barry C. Feld, [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Soci-ology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966.] “Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy”, “The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology”, 88:1 pp.64-136 FD “Punishing youth does… a voluntary basis.” ‘</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Age is a mitigating factor </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; text-indent: -0.25in;">4. 4. The round ought to be decided on the preponderance of evidence standard. </span>

===Equal Treatment AC v2=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The affirmative only needs to prove that at least some juveniles ought to be treated in the same way as at least some adults.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ought implies a moral obligation so I value morality.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Any form of consequentialism requires that individuals maximize the good even at one’s personal expense. David McNaughton and Piers Rawling, “Deontology,” Ethics in Practice, ed. Hugh LaFollette,
3rd edition, (Blackwell, Oxford, 2007), 40.
“Does someone have…to be struck.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">If two agents are equally responsible for the same act-type, then we ought to treat their individual acts equally. Stephen J. Morse [Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law; Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at UPenn Law School]. "Delinquency and Desert."Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 564, (Jul., 1999), pp. 56-80 at 64. RK
“As we have…restores the balance.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Treating individual acts equally provides a reason for people to act morally. Rachels 2.
“To these reasons…to be effective.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Criterion: Meeting the principle of equal retribution</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">At least some juveniles are just as responsible as at least some adults for violent felonies.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">An individual only needs minimal competence. Stephen J. Morse [Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law; Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at UPenn Law School]. "Delinquency and Desert." Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 564, (Jul., 1999), pp. 56-80 at 64. RK </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">“But not all…their normative competence.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A) Age is an arbitrary distinction. Maroney 09.
Maroney, Associate Professor at Vanderbilt University Law School, “The False Promise of Adolescent Brain Science in Juvenile Justice”, Notre Dame Law Review, Volume 85, 2009
“Neuroscience also tends…not resolve them.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B) Adolescents know the consequences of their actions. Ward, Cynthia V., "Punishing Children in the Criminal Law" (2006). Faculty Publications. Paper 102. [[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/facpubs/102]]
“The argument against…such a theory.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C) Age is not always and necessarily relevant when treating people based on culpability.
“Individuals mature at…fact without justification.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">D) Juveniles are not naïve risk-takers. Thomas J. Bernard, “The Cycle of Juvenile Justice”, [[http://www.amazon.com/Cycle-Juvenile-Justice-Thomas-Bernard/dp/0195071832]]
“Some youthful offenders…they are caught.” </span>
==Negative== 
===Recidivism NC:=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">S- Maximizing good consequences</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 1 is Recidivism. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> First, juveniles transferred to the criminal system have higher recidivism rates. Florida proves. Frontline; [1] Frontline, “Juvenile Justice: Does Treating Kids Like Adults Make a Difference?” WGBH Educational Foundation, January 2001.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/juvenile/stats/kidslikeadults.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “A 1996 Florida…in juvenile courts”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, trying juveniles as adults results in no punishment increasing juveniles incentive to reoffend. Elsea:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Trying juveniles in…an adult prison.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Recidivism has four impacts. Jane Wilson [Stanford’s Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US], “Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States” Roosevelt Review. Scribd.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “The effects of…cannot be understated.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention 2 is violence in prison. Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons. Richard Redding [Professor of Law at Chapman University School], "Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency" Office of Justice Programs (June 2010)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Juveniles in adult…even more violent.”</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Constitutionality NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V- Morality </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moral claims are altered and defined by the promises we make. [1] H. L. A. Hart “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (Apr., 1955), pp. 175-191. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “The most obvious…else can complain.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> S- consistency with the law. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Agents have moral obligations to follow the law. [1] H. L. A. Hart “Are There Any Natural Rights?” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 2 (Apr., 1955), pp. 175-191. FD </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Special rights are…those of disobedience.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is unconstitutional to treat juveniles as adults in the criminal justice system. The supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional for juveniles to receive two kinds of punishment that adults receive. Patty Garin [Partner at Stern Shapiro Weissberg and Garin in Boston], "Graham v. Florida" Massachusetts Chapter www.nlgmass.org/2010/09/graham-v-florida</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “In Roper v….on narrower grounds.”</span>

===Rationality NC=== 

Value is morality 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE NOT RATIONAL OUGHT NOT BE PUNISHED. Stephen Morse [</span>Stephen Morse is a <span style="color: #00134c; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Ferdinand Wakeman Hubbell Professor of Law; Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania.</span>]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “Rationality and Responsibility” “The law’s concept… perform some task.” </span>

All people guilty of committing a crime ought to be punished. This ensures equality within a society. James Rachels [He received his Ph.D. in 1967 from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, studying under Professors W. D. Falk and E. M. Adams. He taught at the University of Richmond, New York University, the University of Miami, Duke University and the University of Alabama at Birmingham, where he spent the last twenty-six years of his career.], "Punishment and Desert” Ethics in Practice.. “As we have seen… restores the balance.” 

the standard is respecting moral culpability. 

First, juvenile’s prefrontal cortex in their brain is not fully developed. Jennings [J.D. Candidate 2011: Duke University School of Law], “Juvenile Justice, Sullivan, and Graham: How the Supreme court’s Decisions will change the neuroscience debate” FD “Supporters of the… of brain communication.” 


Because a juvenile’s prefrontal cortex is still developing, juveniles rely on the Amygdala, which increases the likelihood of irrational decision-making. Jennings [J.D. Candidate 2011: Duke University School of Law], “Juvenile Justice, Sullivan, and Graham: How the Supreme court’s Decisions will change the neuroscience debate” FD “Because the frontal… and risky behavior.”

===Incompatibilitist NC=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If no one had a choice about an earlier proposition, and that proposition entails some other proposition, then they never had a choice about that other proposition. </span>Peter Van Inwagen [Professor of Philosophy at Notre Dame], “The Consequence Argument” “If determinism is…<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> way or another:” </span>

The negative burden is to prove that prior lenses determine the actions of juveniles. 

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SEVERAL FACTORS MAKE IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR JUVENILES TO ESCAPE THEIR CRIMONEGNIC ENVIRONMENT. Elizabeth S. Scott and Laurence D. Steinberg [University Professor and Professor of Law at University of Virginia School of Law], “Blaming Youth” University of Virginia School of Law: Pubic Law and Legal Theory Research Paper Series FD “Adolescent peer orientation… than are adults.” </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Adults do not have the same claim to mitigation because the legal boundaries are liften when they become adults, meaning they can do something about escaping their environment. Scott and Steinberg 2 “As we have… crime is difficult.” </span>


=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==