[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

Util AC

V- morality

vc-minimizing harm

1. Consequentialism is the only way to value people equally.


Eric Rakowski<span class="MsoEndnoteReference">[[#_edn1|[i]]] </span> **__individuals' status as...__** **__more numerous group.__**

2. Governments are created to adjudicate rights conflicts

3. Deontology leads to moral conflicts

Contention 1

, deterrence is not relevant in the case of a preventative strike. Scott Sagan[[#_ftn1|[1]]]
**__there are four...__**
**__advocate preventive war.__**
Scott Sagan[[#_ftn2|[2]]]
**__military organizations...__**
**__display__**
**__and control mechanisms.__**
states’ nuclear arsenals are not invulnerable to attack,
Scott Sagan[[#_ftn3|[3]]]
**__First, military bureaucracies...__**
**__survivable military force.__**
Contention 2. The possession of nuclear weapons will lead to
conventional conflict.
Kapur[[#_ftn4|[4]]]
**__Pakistan is militarily...__**
**__the Kashmir dispute__**
. Kapur2
[[#_ftn5|[5]]]
**__with progressing proliferation...__**
**__more violent place.__**
Contention 3. The possession of nuclear weapons will lead to an increase in chemical and biological weapons.
First, states gain incentives to develop chemical weapons in order to protect themselves against a nuclear threat
T.V. Paul[[#_ftn6|[6]]] writes,
**__Chemical weapons have...__**
**__the twenty-first century.__**
the existence of nuclear threats causes states to focus only on avoiding nuclear weapons
Simon cooper[[#_ftn7|[7]]]
**__The consensus among...__**
**__plunged into crisis.__**
chemical weapons
harm
Brian D. Finlay[[#_ftn8|[8]]]
**__Biological weapons are...__**
**__lure leading researchers__**
<span style="display: block;">
</span>
----
<span style="display: block;">
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]] Scott Sagan, “The Perils of Proliferation: Organization Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons,” International Security, Vol. 18, No. 4 (Spring, 1994), pp. 66-107 </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#_ftnref|[2]]] Scott Sagan, “The Perils of Proliferation: Organization Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons,” International Security, Vol. 18, No. 4 (Spring, 1994), pp. 66-107 </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#_ftnref|[3]]] Scott Sagan, “The Perils of Proliferation: Organization Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons,” International Security, Vol. 18, No. 4 (Spring, 1994), pp. 66-107 </span>

[[#_ftnref|[4]]] Kapur, S. Paul. India and Pakistan's Unstable Peace: Why Nuclear South Asia Is Not Like Cold War Europe International Security - Volume 30, Number 2, Fall 2005, pp. 127-152

[[#_ftnref|[5]]] Kapur, S. Paul. India and Pakistan's Unstable Peace: Why Nuclear South Asia Is Not Like Cold War Europe International Security - Volume 30, Number 2, Fall 2005, pp. 127-152

[[#_ftnref|[6]]] T.V. Paul, “Great equalizers or agents of chaos? Weapons of mass destruction and the emerging international order,” International order and the future of world politics, 1999, Google books

[[#_ftnref|[7]]] Simon Cooper, “North Korea: The Bigger (Non-Nuclear) Threat,” Popular Mechanics, October 1, 2009 [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/military/4199791]]


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#_ftnref|[8]]] Brian D. Finlay, “Russian Roulette: Canada's Role in the Race to Secure Loose Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical Weapons,” International Journal, Vol. 61, No. 2, Global China (Spring, 2006), pp. 411-432, JSTOR </span>
</span>


----

<span style="display: block;"> [[#_ednref|[i]]] “Taking and Saving Lives.” Eric Rakowski. Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), p. 1063-1156. Columbia Law Review Association, Inc. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960]].

</span>
Deontology AC
value morality
it is morally impermissible to intend a harm
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">FIRST. It is never permissible to harm someone
Kamm<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn1|[1]]] </span></span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Suppose that there...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">makes this so</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">morality must promote the inviolability of persons
Kamm<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn2|[2]]] </span></span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">If we are...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">express its presence.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">worse because of the normative magnification the intent causes
SECOND. Intending
a harm
Nagel </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">moral principles </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">tell... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">aiming to destroy.</span>__**
<span style="display: block;">
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THIRD. Intending to harm someone places evil as your goal
Nagel<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn1|[1]]] </span></span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">action intentionally aimed ...</span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">of moral dislocation.</span>__**
Contention 1.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">conditional intent
Jeff McMahan<span class="MsoFootnoteReference">[[#_ftn2|[2]]] </span></span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">even if a ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">such an intention</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 2
we hold individuals hostage
Steven Lee [[#_ftn3|[3]]]explains </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">central to the ... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">without their consent.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 3. Moral evaluation of nuclear weapons has to happen before
Richard Wasserstrom[[#_ftn4|[4]]] </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Times;">all the decisions... </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Times;">massive nuclear destruction.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Contention 4.
nuclear war. Scott Sagan[[#_ftn5|[5]]] </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">there are four .. </span>__****__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">advocate preventive war.</span>__**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Scott Sagan[[#_ftn6|[6]]] </span>
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">military organizations</span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">display </span>__**
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> and control mechanisms. </span>__</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block;">
</span></span>
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span> <span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[1]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;"> Nagel, Thomas.[an American philosopher, currently University Professor of Philosophy and Law at New York University, where he has taught since 1980.] The View from Nowhere. New York: Oxford UP, 1989. Print. Page 25-26 on Google books</span></span>


<span style="line-height: 14.0pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[2]]]</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Jeff McMahan, “Deterrence and Deontology,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 517-536, Published by: </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=ucpress|The University of Chicago Press]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">, http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381035</span> </span>

<span style="margin-right: .5in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[3]]]</span> <span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; font-size: 8pt;">Lee, Steven. “The morality of nuclear deterrence: hostage holding and consequences.” //Ethics,// vol. 95, no. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, April 1985, pp. 549-566. </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 20.0pt; margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: .5in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 11.0pt list .25in left .5in; text-autospace: none; text-indent: -.5in;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[4]]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;"> Richard Wasserstrom, War, Nuclear War, and Nuclear Deterrence: Some Conceptual and Moral Issues, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 424-444  (article consists of 21 pages) </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[5]]]</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Scott Sagan, “The Perils of Proliferation: Organization Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons,” International Security, Vol. 18, No. 4 (Spring, 1994), pp. 66-107</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[6]]]</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Scott Sagan, “The Perils of Proliferation: Organization Theory, Deterrence Theory, and the Spread of Nuclear Weapons,” International Security, Vol. 18, No. 4 (Spring, 1994), pp. 66-107</span> </span>
</span>
----
<span style="display: block;">
<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span> Frances Kamm, “<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Review: Non-Consequentialism, the Person as an End-in-Itself, and the Significance of Status,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 21, No. 4 (Autumn, 1992), pp. 354-389</span>

<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[2]]]</span> Frances Kamm, “<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Review: Non-Consequentialism, the Person as an End-in-Itself, and the Significance of Status,” Philosophy and Public Affairs, Vol. 21, No. 4 (Autumn, 1992), pp. 354-389</span>
</span>

== == 
== == 
==Negative== 

Rationality NC
value optimal governmental policy


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Felix Oppenheim<span style="cursor: pointer;">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> explains the difference between practical judgments and ethical ones. </span>



**__measuring and estima__****__ting...__**
**__not immoral-or moral__**
, ethics are irrelevant in cases of practical impossibility. Oppenheim2
**__To determine the...__**
**__impossibility and necessity__**
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">1. States have the right to pursue nuclear weapons if they view it as essential to their national interest. Oppenheim3[[#_ftn2|[2]]] explains </span>
**__"between nations, there...__**
**__cost and risk."__**

<span style="display: block;">2. It is irrational for any individual nation to disarm</span>
----
<span style="display: block;">
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]] Felix E. Oppenheim, National Interest, Rationality, and Morality, Political Theory, Vol. 15, No. 3 (Aug., 1987), pp. 369-389 </span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">[[#_ftnref|[2]]] Felix E. Oppenheim, National Interest, Rationality, and Morality, Political Theory, Vol. 15, No. 3 (Aug., 1987), pp. 369-389 </span>

</span>

Deterrence NC
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">value morality</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Morality is consequentialist </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">FIRST. This is the only way to value all people equally</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Eric Rakowski</span><span style="mso-endnote-id: edn;">[[#_edn1|[i]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">that</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__individuals' status as__ </span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">more numerous group, </span>__</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">SECOND. Governments are actors created to adjudicate over rights conflicts. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">THIRD. The resolution places us in a moral dilemma in which neither side will be morally perfect. </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">nuclear weapons deter devastating conventional war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alagappa<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">First,</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> by assuaging</span>__</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">in international politics.</span>__</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Alagappa<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftn2|[2]]]</span> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Nuclear weapons contribute </span>__</span>**
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">precipitated the crises. </span>__</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span></span>
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote-list;">
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[1]]]</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Muthiah Alagappa, “Nuclear Weapons Reinforce Security and Stability in 21st Century Asia,” The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia, Stanford university Press, 2009 </span></span>
</span><span style="display: block; mso-element: footnote;">
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn;">[[#_ftnref|[2]]]</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 9pt;">Muthiah Alagappa, “Nuclear Weapons Reinforce Security and Stability in 21st Century Asia,” The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia, Stanford university Press, 2009 </span></span>
</span></span><span style="display: block; mso-element: endnote-list;">
----
<span style="display: block; mso-element: endnote;">
<span style="mso-endnote-id: edn;">[[#_ednref|[i]]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> “Taking and Saving Lives.” Eric Rakowski. Columbia Law Review, Vol. 93, No. 5, (Jun., 1993), p. 1063-1156. Columbia Law Review Association, Inc. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1122960]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> </span>
</span></span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]