[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The United States federal government should end United States military presence in the state of Japan for research, development and deployment of ballistic missile defense.</span>**


__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention One: The Status Quo</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cooperation over further missile defense now</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**O’Rourke 10** (Ronald O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs at the Congressional Research Service, June 10, 2010, “Navy Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) Program: Background and Issues for Congress”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL33745.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Table 3. MDA Funding for...land-based SM-3 program element.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And they are inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Ko, 10** (Ko Young Dae, contributor to Solidarity for Peace and Reunification of Korea, “U.S. Military Strategy on the Korean Peninsula and Missile Defense in Northeast Asia”, May 9, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.spark946.org/bugsboard/index.php]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States regards...from the Sea of Okhotsk.</span>


__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Two: Miscalculation</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Currently deployed missile defense capabilities only threaten short-range and regional missiles, they have no affect on China’s long range ICBMs which is what they care about for deterrence</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Rubinstein, 07** – Washington DC consultant on US-Japan Defense Relations [Gregg A., Center for Pacific Asia Studies, “US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospects”,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.japanconsidered.com/OccasionalPapers/Rubinstein%20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Any discussion of BMD...some years to come.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, there’s a distinction – we remove what China hates</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**NTI, 07** (James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, “China's Opposition to US Missile Defense Programs”, Last Copyrighted 2007, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nti.org/db/china/mdpos.htm#China%27s%20Opposition%20to%20TMD%20in%20Japan]]</span>, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> China's position on TMD...the NTW system could defend all of Taiwan.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan solves Chinese perception</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Toki, 09** – M.A. in International Policy Studies from the Monterey Institute of International Studies and Project Manager and Research Associate in the Nonproliferation Education Program at CNS (Masako, “Missile defense in Japan”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, January 16th 2009,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/missile-defense-japan]]</span>, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Regionally, China has been disturbed...such as China to join in this endeavor.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Absent plan China accelerates modernization</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Yoshihara, 10** (Toshi, associate professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, PhD in international relations, “CHINESE MISSILE STRATEGY AND THE U.S. NAVAL PRESENCE IN JAPAN,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.andrewerickson.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/05/Chinese-Missile-Strategy_Yoshihara_Toshi_NWCR_2010-Summer.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Several intervening factors are likely to influence...worry about these complications.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That causes miscalc</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Chase, 09** (Dr. Michael S., Assistant Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department – Naval War College, et al., “Chinese Theater and Strategic Missile Force Modernization and its Implications for the United States,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 23, Iss. 1, Feb., <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.informaworld.com/|http://www.informaworld.com]]</span>. proxy-remote.galib.uga.edu/ smpp/section?content= a908916446&fulltext=713240928</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> At the same time...more capable nuclear power.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The impact is nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Twomey, 09** – Professor at the Naval Postgraduate College (Christopher P., “Chinese-U.S. Strategic Affairs”, Arms Control Association, January/February 2009, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_01-02/china_us_dangerous_dynamism]]</span>, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> China and the United States...These too would undermine stability in an intense crisis.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Multiple potential conflicts with China</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Twomey, 08** [Twomey is a professor of National Security Affairs and codirector of the Center for Contemporary Conflict at the Naval Postgraduate School. “Dangers and Prospects in Sino-American Strategic Nuclear Relations”, Perspectives on Sino-American Strategic Nuclear Issues, p. 7-8]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> POTENTIAL SUBSTANTIVE DANGERS IN SINO-AMERICAN...China is likely to contest these relationships as Beijing's power continues to grow.'?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even if modernization is inevitable, we control the speed, quality, and quantity.</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Lin 7**, - Taiho, Assistant Professor, Department of International Trade, Shih Chien University (Kaohsiung Campus), 2007. [The Implications of U.S. Nuclear Strategy for Taiwan’s Security, www2.scu.edu.tw/politics/journal/doc/j252/3.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> China has been modernizing... (U.S. Department of Defense, 2006a: 35-36).</span>


__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Three: Taiwan</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan solves perception of intervention in Taiwan conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Zhang, 05** (Hui, Research associate in the Project on Managing the Atom at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government., December, “Action/Reaction: U.S. Space Weaponization and China”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.armscontrol.org/print/1943]]</span>, THE)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A Loss of Strategic Nuclear...potentially with Taiwan.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No alt causes</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Gates, 09** (Robert, Secretary of Defense of the US – Head of the DOD, “ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS Military Power of the People’s Republic of China 2009 Office”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/China_Military_Power_Report_2009.pdf]]</span>, THE)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Despite a reduction in...course of action differently.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It’s only a question of perception—plan breaks down the illusion of an alliance with Taiwan that causes China-Taiwan war</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Hughes, 06** (Christopher W., Principal Research Fellow & Acting Co-Director at the Centre for the Study of Globalisation and Regionalisation at the University of Warwick, December, “Ballistic Missile Defence and US-Japan and US-UK Alliances Compared”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.garnet-eu.org/fileadmin/documents/working_papers/1106.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Instead, the principal security dilemma...further momentum for a regional arms race.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And—BMD makes an arms race and a Chinese first strike in Taiwan inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Chase, 09** (Dr. Michael S., Assistant Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department – Naval War College, et al., “Chinese Theater and Strategic Missile Force Modernization and its Implications for the United States,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 23, Iss. 1, Feb., <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.informaworld.com/|http://www.informaworld.com]]</span>. proxy-remote.galib.uga.edu/ smpp/section?content= a908916446&fulltext=713240928)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A third and perhaps equally...showdown over Taiwan.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Escalates and extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Straits Times, 00** (Ching Cheong, Straits times, July 25 2000, l/n)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The high-intensity scenario postulates...would see the destruction of civilisation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That’s the most probable impact</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Shirk, 08** – Ho Miu Lam Professor of China and Pacific Relations at the University of California-San Diego (Susan, China Fragile Superpower, p. 2, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Taiwan is an issue that arouses intense...depended on it.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">War escalates to nukes</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Lieber and Press, 07** – *Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame AND Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Military Consultant for the DOD (*Keir A., Daryl G., “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of the Chinese Deterrent”, China Security, Winter 2007, p. 72-74, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A second line of criticism holds that...China want – may in fact be grave.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No impact defense</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Shirk, 08** – Ho Miu Lam Professor of China and Pacific Relations at the University of California-San Diego (Susan, China Fragile Superpower, p. 11, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But in a crisis —or when...— could drive China into a military confrontation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, any risk escalates to global conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Hunkovic, 09** – American Military University (Lee J., “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, American Military University, 2009, p. 58-59, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This scenario is not only the...again becoming a possibility.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We also have a unique brink—China is planning first use over Taiwan</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Chase, 09** (Dr. Michael S., Assistant Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department – Naval War College, et al., “Chinese Theater and Strategic Missile Force Modernization and its Implications for the United States,” Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 23, Iss. 1, Feb., <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.informaworld.com/|http://www.informaworld.com]]</span>. proxy-remote.galib.uga.edu/ smpp/section?content= a908916446&fulltext=713240928</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Scenario Two: Crisis-driven...already be part of Chinese planning.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Peaceful reunification is possible—only if we can hold out</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Hurd, 09** (Dale, CBN News Senior Reporter, Chinese Attack on Taiwan: War for U.S.?, March 25,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cbn.com/cbnnews/us/2009/March/Chinese-Attack-on-Taiwan-War-for-US-/]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Beijing recently authorized...a war never start in the first place.</span>

__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Four: First Strike</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan is key to balance power between US and China</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Chase, 10** (Michael, Assistant Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the United States Naval War College, 4/29, “The U.S.-China Strategic Security Relationship and the Nuclear Posture Review Report”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.trumanproject.org/posts/2010/05/us-china-strategic-security-relationship-and-nuclear-posture-review-report]]</span>, THE)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> From Beijing’s perspective, Chinese...potentially destabilizing higher alert levels.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Absent plan US takes overly aggressive policies toward China</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Chase, 10** (Michael, Assistant Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the United States Naval War College, 4/29, “The U.S.-China Strategic Security Relationship and the Nuclear Posture Review Report”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.trumanproject.org/posts/2010/05/us-china-strategic-security-relationship-and-nuclear-posture-review-report]]</span>, THE)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Recently, some Chinese...of these concerns.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">BMD destroys MAD</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Yu and Guangqian, 09** (Rong, Ph. D. candidate at the Institute of International Strategy and Development, School of Public Policy and Management, Tsinghua University. and Peng, editor-in-chief of Strategic Sciences and has long been engaged in research on military strategy and international affairs. “Nuclear No-First-Use Revisited”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=225&Itemid=8#rp10]]</span>, THE)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In addition, the US Ballistic Missile Defense...even preventative nuclear attack.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, MAD makes nuclear war impossible</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Durr, 02** – Lieutenant Colonel of the U.S. Army (Charles, W., 4/9/02, “NUCLEAR DETERRENCE IN THE THIRD MILLENNIUM”, p. 2-3, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The fundamentals of nuclear deterrence...nuclear weapons in such an event.6</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The impact is a US first strike</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Zhang, 07** – Ph.D. in political science from the University of Texas, Faculty Researcher at the Learning Sciences Lab and an Assistant Professor in the Learning Sciences and Technologies Academic Group at the National Institute of Education (Baohui, “The Modernization of Chinese Nuclear Forces and Its Impact on Sino-U.S. Relations”, Asian Affairs: An American Review, Vol. 34, No. 2, p. 89, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I disagree with Lieber and Press’s...strike on Beijing’s arsenal.”7</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Err aff—the strike will fail</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Aby, 07** (The Liberal, “China’s MAD Nuclear Deterrence Against USA”, July 14th 2007, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.abytheliberal.com/world-politics/chinas-mad-nuclear-deterrance-usa]]</span>, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> China’s nuclear force is based...weapons stockpile and delivery systems.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It destroys the environment—extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Takai, 09** -- Retired Colonel and Former Researcher in the military science faculty of the Staff College for Japan’s Ground Self Defense Force (“U.S.-China nuclear strikes would spell doomsday”, October 7, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.upiasia.com/Security/2009/10/07/us-china_nuclear_strikes_would_spell_doomsday/7213/]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> What would happen if China...Such advice is worth heeding by nuclear hard-liners.</span>


__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Five: We Are Topical</span>**__

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Military Presence means regular, noncombat activities – Vital to have debates about the relative cost and benefits of competing strategies for power projection</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Thomason, 02** – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> DoD’s overseas military presence...findings and recommendations.</span>
=Negative= 
See New Trier CK and New Trier BN
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]