=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
===Greenhill 1AC=== 

**Contention One: Pakistan**

Pakistan is cooperating to defeat Al Qaeda and other militants now. 
[[#_Toc270873655]]<span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873655;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Coll,</span></span> president of the New America Foundation, 10-13-200<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">9</span></span>. [Testimony before the House Foreign Affairs Committee, U.S. Interests and Policy Choices in Afghanistan. p. </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.newamerica.net/publications/resources/2009/us_interests_and_policy_choices_in_afghanistan]]</span><span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873655;">]</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The relationship between the Pakistani security services and </span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Islamist extremist groups - </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Al Qaeda, the Taliban</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, sectarian groups, Kashmiri groups, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and their</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> many </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">splinters - is not static or preordained. Pakistani public opinion,</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> while it remains hostile to the United States, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> of late </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">turned </span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">sharply and </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">intensely against violent Islamist militant groups. The Pakistan Army, itself reeling as an institution from deep public skepticism, is **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">proving to be responsive</span>** to this change of public opinion</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. Moreover, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the Army, civilian</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> political </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">leaders</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, landlords, business leaders </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Pakistani </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">civil society have entered into a period of competition and freewheeling discourse over how to</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> think about the country's national interests and how to </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">extricate their country from</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> the Frankenstein-like problem of </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Islamic radicalism created by the Army's historical security policies</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. There is a growing recognition in this discourse among Pakistani elites that the country must find a new national security doctrine that does not fuel internal revolution and impede economic and social progress. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The purpose of American policy should be to create conditions within and around Pakistan for the progressive side of this argument among Pakistani elites to prevail over time.</span></span> </span>



[[#_Toc270873656]]

Continued cooperation isn’t assured—U.S. has to balance against deep mistrust within the Pakistan military. 
[[#_Toc270873657]]<span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873657;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">10</span></span>, http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=42759</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">US Special Operations Forces have begun venturing out with Pakistani forces on aid projects, deepening the American role in the effort to defeat Islamist militants in Pakistani territory</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> that has been off limits to U.S. ground troops, a report in the Wall Street Journal said(WSJ)Wednesday. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The expansion of U.S. cooperation is significant given Pakistan’s deep aversion to allowing foreign military forces on its territory</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. The Special Operations teams join the aid missions only when commanders determine there is relatively little security risk, a senior U.S. military official said, in an effort to avoid direct engagement that would call attention to U.S. participation. The U.S. troops are allowed to defend themselves and return fire if attacked. But the official emphasized the joint missions aren’t supposed to be combat operations, and the Americans often participate in civilian garb. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pakistan has told the U.S. that troops need to keep a low profile</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. “Going out in the open that has negative optics, that is something we have to work out,” said a Pakistani official. “This whole exercise could be counterproductive if people see U.S. boots on the ground.” </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Because of Pakistan’s sensitivities, the U.S. role has developed slowly</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. In June 2008, top U.S. military officials announced 30 American troops would begin a military training program in Pakistan, but it took four months for Pakistan to allow the program to begin. The first U.S. Special Operations Forces were restricted to military classrooms and training bases. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pakistan has gradually allowed more trainers into the country and allowed the mission’s scope to expand</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. Today, the U.S. has about 120 trainers in the country, and the program is set to expand again with new joint missions to oversee small-scale development projects aimed at winning over tribal leaders, according to officials familiar with the plan. Such aid projects are a pillar of the U.S. counterinsurgency strategy, which the U.S. hopes to pass on to the Pakistanis through the training missions. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U.S. military officials say if U.S. forces are able to help projects</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> such as repairing infrastructure, distributing seeds and providing generators or solar panels, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">they can build trust with the Pakistani military</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, and encourage them to accept more training in the field. “You have to bring something to the dance,” said the senior military official. “And the way to do it is to have cash ready to do everything from force protection to other things that will protect the population.” Congressional leaders last month approved $10 million in funding for the aid missions, which will focus reconstruction projects in poor tribal areas that are off-limits to foreign civilian aid workers. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Pakistani government has warned the Pentagon that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">a more visible U.S. military presence could undermine the mission</span>** of pacifying the border region, which has provided a haven for militants staging attacks in Pakistan as well as Afghanistan</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. The U.S. has already aroused local animosity with drone strikes targeting militants in the tribal areas, though the missile strikes have the tacit support of the Pakistani government and often aid the Pakistani army’s campaign against the militants. Providing money to U.S. troops to spend in communities they are trying to protect has been a tactic used for years to fight insurgencies in Iraq and Afghanistan. The move to accompany Pakistani forces in the field is even more significant, and repeats a pattern seen in the Philippines during the Bush administration, when Army Green Berets took a gradually more expansive role in Manila’s fight against the terrorist group Abu Sayyaf in the southern islands of Mindanao. In Pakistan, the U.S. military helps train both the regular military and the Frontier Corps, a force drawn from residents of the tribal regions but led by Pakistani Army officers. </span></span>



[[#_Toc270873658]]
The areas we solve for are vital safe havens for al Qaeda – ideal areas for launch
<span class="AuthorDate">Arkedis, 9</span> <span style="color: black;">- director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007 (Jim, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, 10/23, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven) </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;"><span class="BoldUnderline">I spent five years as a counterterrorism analyst for the Pentagon and rigorously studied plots from Madrid to London to 9/11</span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black;">.</span></span><span style="color: black;"> The above arguments may have merit in a piecemeal or abstract sense, but fall apart in the specific case of what we all dread: a large-scale, al Qaeda operation aimed at the United States. It is certainly true, for example, that terrorist groups can accomplish much online. Individuals can maintain contact with groups via chat rooms, money can be transferred over the Web (if done with extreme caution), and plotters can download items like instruction manuals for bomb-making, photographs of potential targets, and even blueprints for particular buildings. But </span><span class="BoldUnderline">all the e-mail accounts, chat rooms, and social media available will never account for the human touch. There is simply no substitute for the trust and confidence built by physically meeting</span><span style="color: black;">, jointly conceiving, </span><span class="BoldUnderline">and then training together for a large-scale, complex operation on the other side of the world. </span><span style="color: black;">As the 9/11 plot developed, mastermind Khalid Sheik Mohammed (KSM) put the future operatives through a series of training courses along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. Courses included physical fitness, firearms, close combat, Western culture, and English language. The 9/11 Commission report notes the extreme physical and mental demands KSM put on the participants -- even if the operation didn't require extensive firearms usage, KSM would have wanted the operatives to be proficient under intense pressure, should the need arise. Juxtapose that with an online learning environment. While you can no doubt learn some amazing things from online courses, it is far preferable to have a dedicated professor physically present to supervise students and monitor their progress. Or think of it another way: You wouldn't want the U.S. Marine Corps to send recruits into battle without training under a drill instructor, would you? KSM was somewhere between a professor and sergeant. Second, critics argue that the Madrid bombings of 2004 (which killed 191) as well those in London a year later (which killed 56) were largely -- though not entirely -- conceived, prepared, and executed within their respective countries, thus obviating the need for a safe haven. True enough. However, unlike 9/11 (which killed nearly 3,000), those plots' successes were possible due to their simple concept and small scale. In both cities, the playbook was essentially the same: Four to eight individuals had to find a safe house, download bomb-making instructions, purchase explosive agents, assemble the devices, and deliver charges to the attack points. Without trivializing the tragic loss of life in the European attacks, building those explosive devices was akin to conducting a difficult high-school chemistry experiment. On that scale, 9/11 was like constructing a nuclear warhead. In every sense, it was a grander vision, involving 20 highly skilled operatives infiltrating the U.S. homeland, who conducted a series of hijackings and targeted four national landmarks with enough know-how, preparation, and contingency plans to be success. In one instance, KSM taught the 9/11 operatives to shoot a rifle from the back of a moving motorcycle, just in case. You can't do that in someone's bedroom -- you need space, time, and the ability to work without worrying that the cops are listening in. In other words, </span><span class="BoldUnderline">as a plot grows in number of operatives, scale of target, distance from base, and logistical complexity, so does the need for space to reduce the chances of being discovered and disrupted</span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black;">.</span></span><span style="color: black;"> The final argument is that denying al Qaeda a safe haven is an exercise in futility: Drive Osama bin Laden from Afghanistan and he'd relocate to some place like Sudan, southern Algeria, Somalia, or other swaths of ungoverned territory. However, this logic makes two faulty assumptions: that al Qaeda is mobile, and that the group's international affiliates would automatically roll out the red carpet for the jihadi refugees. Neither is true. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">Bin Laden and his senior and mid level cadre are well-known to intelligence services the world over. Any attempt to trave</span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black;">l</span></span><span style="color: black;">, let alone cross an international border (save Afghanistan-Pakistan) </span><span class="BoldUnderline">would fall somewhere between "utterly unthinkable" and "highly risky."</span> <span style="color: black;">Moving would further require massive reorientation of al Qaeda's financial operations and smuggling networks.</span> <span class="BoldUnderline">Nor would bin Laden's senior leaders be automatically welcomed abroad in areas their regional partners control.</span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black;"> Though</span></span><span style="color: black;"> al Qaeda has established "franchise affiliates" in places like North Africa and Southeast Asia, relationships between al Qaeda's leadership and its regional nodes are extraordinarily complex. Groups like the North African affiliate "al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb" (AQIM) are happy to co-opt the al Qaeda "brand" for recruiting and financial reasons, but they don't necessarily share the al Qaeda senior leadership's ideological goals. AQIM is much more focused on attacking the Algerian government or foreign entities within the country, having not displayed much capability or desire for grandiose international operations. And last, recruits come to North Africa more often through independent networks in Europe, not camps along the Durand Line. Think of the relationship like the one you have your in-laws: You might share a name, but you probably don't want them coming to visit for three full weeks. Regional leaders aren't terribly loyal to senior leadership, either. Take Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the deceased leader of the group's Iraq affiliate. He was summoned to bin Laden's side numerous times in an attempt to exert control as the Iraqi commander's tactics grew more grotesque and questionable. Zarqawi declined, not wanting to risk travel or accept instruction from bin Laden. In the end, </span><span class="BoldUnderline">a safe haven along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border is as good as it gets for al Qaeda's chances to launch a large-scale attack against the United States. Certainly, smaller, less complex attacks could be planned without "Afghan real estate," but any such plot's death toll and long-term effect on American society will be far more limited</span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black;">.</span></span><span style="color: black;"> Unfortunately, that's a risk President Barack Obama has to accept -- no amount of intelligence or counterterrorism operations can provide 100 percent security. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">But to avoid the Big One, the U.S. president's best bet is to deny al Qaeda the only physical space it can access. </span></span>




[[#_Toc270873660]]

Risk of nuclear religious extremism high now – causes extinction
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">MacQuarrie, 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> – staff writer, Boston Globe (Brian, “Clear and present nuclear threats,” Boston Globe, 7/25,<span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.boston.com/ae/movies/articles/2010/07/25/countdown_to_zero_examines_two_dangers_nuclear_threats_and_public_complacency/?page=1]]</span>) </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;"><span class="BoldUnderline">“The likelihood of a single nuclear bomb exploding in a single city somewhere, maybe even Boston, has increased</span>,<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">’’ said</span></span> Graham <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Allison, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. </span></span>Allison is one of several talking heads featured in the documentary. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The technology is spreading, terrorists have an appetite for the arms, and the security of nuclear bombs, particularly in Pakistan</span></span> and the countries of the former Soviet Union, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is a constant worry for</span></span> US and allied defense officials. But to people worried more about mortgage payments than nuclear holocaust, the danger can seem as dated as fallout shelters and “Dr. Strangelove.’’ Because of that sense of complacency, an area network of clergy, academics, and scientists is spreading the word that this issue must not be overlooked. “Nuclear weapons were so much the story line of the Cold War,’’ said Allison, who served as assistant defense secretary under President Clinton and a special defense adviser under President Reagan. “If you’re only following the headlines — ‘The Cold War’s Over’ — it must have gone away.’’ Instead, Allison said, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">an apocalyptic danger is clear and present. “The objective of Al Qaeda is to ‘kill 4 million Americans</span></span><span class="Underline0">, </span>including 2 million children,’ ’’ Allison says during the 90-minute film. “You’re not going to get to kill 4 million people by hijacking airplanes and crashing them into buildings.’’ <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The quickest way to reach that goal is through the cataclysm of a nuclear explosion, which</span></span> Valerie Plame Wilson, the former CIA officer whose identity was leaked by aides under President George W. Bush, said <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Al Qaeda is eager to accomplish. “Al Qaeda is determined to acquire nuclear weapons and to use them if they get them</span></span><span class="Underline0">,’’ </span>Wilson says in the film. “In the early ’90s, they tried to buy highly enriched uranium in the Sudan. They got scammed. Just prior to the 9/11 attacks, we do know that Osama bin Laden and his lieutenant, Zawahiri, sat down with two Pakistani nuclear scientists and discussed nuclear weapons.’’ “Countdown to Zero’’ was produced by Lawrence Bender, who brought the issue of global warming to a mass audience through “An Inconvenient Truth,’’ the Academy Award-winning documentary. In Allison’s view, nuclear proliferation is a much more immediate danger. In addition to showing the history of the atomic bomb, the film includes interviews of world figures such as Mikhail Gorbachev, Tony Blair, and Pervez Musharraf; nuclear scientists; and intelligence officials such as former CIA operative Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, a current fellow at the Belfer Center. “Countdown to Zero’’ includes the troubling and well-known development of Iran’s nuclear program, but its writer and director, Lucy Walker, also chronicles little-publicized thefts of enriched uranium that show this fear has been more reality than rumor. As Mowatt-Larssen says in the film: “<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There are three ways to acquire a nuclear weapon: You can steal a bomb. You can buy a bomb. And you can build a bomb.’’</span></span> Walker shows that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">all three options are very much in play</span></span>. According to Dr. Ira Helfand of Northampton, former president of Physicians for Social Responsibility, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">even a relatively small nuclear exchange</span></span> between, for example, India and Pakistan <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would have serious global repercussions</span></span>. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Temperatures across the planet would drop about 1.3 degrees centigrade</span></span>, Helfand said<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, and lead to mass starvation. In a large-scale nuclear war, temperatures would drop 8 to 10 degrees centigrade, agriculture would be devastated, and</span></span> “the likelihood is that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the entire human race would starve to death,’</span></span>’ Helfand said during a panel discussion after a recent screening at the Coolidge Corner Theatre in Brookline. “Countdown to Zero,’’ developed by Participant Media in conjunction with the World Security Institute and Magnolia Pictures, has been shown at the Cannes and Sundance film festivals. However, the sparse turnout at the Brookline screening underscored the difficulties that the documentary faces in attracting a large, paying audience. “We have kind of an issue fatigue that all of us understandably experience,’’ said the Rev. Jim Antal, president of the Massachusetts Conference of the United Church of Christ, who also spoke after the screening. To help counter that fatigue, Antal plans to send an alert to all of the 400 churches and clergy in his jurisdiction. “This problem has not gone away,’’ Antal said. The issue of complacency or unawareness might be even more acute among younger people who have no recollection of the Cold War and its hair-trigger threat of nuclear annihilation. Ryan Scott McDonnell, executive director of the Boston Faith & Justice Network, said the group will be encouraging its 5,000 young men and women to watch the film. “This is a first step to convince people that this is an issue that you at least need to learn about even before you care about it,’’ McDonnell said. “But that’s just the starting point.’’ Despite the seemingly increasing nuclear threat posed by terrorists and rogue organizations, some activists see more opportunities for large-scale disarmament. The United States and Russia already have dramatically reduced their nuclear arsenals, and Presidents Obama and Dmitry Medvedev have pledged to eliminate even more weapons. The Nobel Peace Prize committee made Obama its 2009 recipient partly because of his support for universal nuclear disarmament. And that effort, by the leader of one of the world’s two nuclear giants, is an important reason for hope, Antal said. “This is an unprecedented opportunity for humanity to put the genie back in the bottle,’’ Antal said. “To have a person of Obama’s values in his position, and his relations with the Russians, I just think this is something that can give the world hope.’’ Time, however, might be running short. Allison said that while the threat of all-out nuclear war has declined<span class="BoldUnderline">, the rise of terrorism continues to make the intersection of motive and materials a wildly unpredictable one</span><span class="Underline0">. </span>Indeed, Allison said in a phone interview, the findings of a congressionally appointed committee on weapons of mass destruction and terrorism underscored the dangers. Allison, who was a member of that committee, recounted its conclusions from 2008. “We said that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">unless there’s some significant, change</span></span> from the current trend lines, we believed <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it was more likely than not that there would be a successful nuclear or biological attack somewhere in the world before the end of 2013</span></span><span class="Underline0">,</span>’’ Allison said. </span>




**<span style="color: black;">Nuclear religious extremism causes extinction </span>**
<span class="AuthorDate">Morgan, 9</span><span style="color: black;"> - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct) </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;"><span style="color: black;">In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question ‘‘Is Nuclear War Inevitable??’’ [10].4 In Section 1, Moore points out what </span><span class="BoldUnderline">most terrorists</span><span style="color: black;"> obviously already know about the nuclear tensions between powerful countries. No doubt, they’ve </span><span class="BoldUnderline">figured out that the best way to escalate these tensions into nuclear war is to set off a nuclear exchange</span><span style="color: black;">. As Moore points out, </span><span class="BoldUnderline">all that militant terrorists would have to do is get their hands on one small nuclear bomb and explode it on either Moscow or Israel. Because of the Russian ‘‘dead hand’’ system, ‘‘where regional nuclear commanders would be given full powers should Moscow be destroyed,’’ it is likely that any attack would be blamed on the U</span><span style="color: black;">nited </span><span class="BoldUnderline">S</span><span style="color: black;">tates’’ [10]. Israeli leaders and Zionist supporters have, likewise, stated for years that if Israel were to suffer a nuclear attack, whether from terrorists or a nation state, it would retaliate with the suicidal ‘‘Samson option’’ against all major Muslim cities in the Middle East. Furthermore, the Israeli Samson option would also include attacks on Russia and even ‘‘anti-Semitic’’ European cities [10]. In that case, of course, Russia would retaliate, and the U.S. would then retaliate against Russia. China would probably be involved as well, as thousands, if not tens of thousands, of nuclear warheads, many of them much more powerful than those used at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, would rain upon most of the major cities in the Northern Hemisphere. Afterwards, for years to come, massive radioactive clouds would drift throughout the Earth in the nuclear fallout, bringing death or else radiation disease that would be genetically transmitted to future generations in a nuclear winter that could last as long as a 100 years, taking a savage toll upon the environment and fragile ecosphere as well. And </span><span class="BoldUnderline">what many people fail to realize is what a precarious, hair-trigger basis the nuclear web rests on. Any accident, mistaken communication, false signal or ‘‘lone wolf’ act of sabotage or treason could, in a matter of a few minutes, unleash the use of nuclear weapons, and once a weapon is used, then the likelihood of a rapid escalation of nuclear attacks is quite high</span><span style="color: black;"> while the likelihood of a limited nuclear war is actually less probable since </span><span class="BoldUnderline">each country would act under the ‘‘use them or lose them’’ strategy and psychology;</span><span style="color: black;"> restraint by one power would be interpreted as a weakness by the other, which could be exploited as a window of opportunity to ‘‘win’’ the war. In other words, </span><span class="BoldUnderline">once Pandora’s Box is opened, it will spread quickly, as it will be the signal for permission for anyone to use them. </span><span style="color: black;">Moore compares swift nuclear escalation to a room full of people embarrassed to cough. Once one does, however, ‘‘everyone else feels free to do so. The bottom line is that as long as large nation states use internal and external war to keep their disparate factions glued together and to satisfy elites’ needs for power and plunder, these nations will attempt to obtain, keep, and inevitably use nuclear weapons. And as long as large nations oppress groups who seek self determination, some of those groups will look for any means to fight their oppressors’’ [10]. In other words, as long as war and aggression are backed up by the implicit threat of nuclear arms, it is only a matter of time before the escalation of violent conflict leads to the actual use of nuclear weapons, and </span><span class="BoldUnderline">once even just one is used, it is very likely that many, if not all, will be used, leading to horrific scenarios of global death and the destruction of much of human civilization while condemning a mutant human remnant, if there is such a remnant, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter.</span> </span>




[[#_Toc270873663]]

Independently, Surge motivates local resistance and religious extremism
<span style="line-height: normal;"><span class="AuthorDate">Khouri, 9</span> * Director of the Issam Fares Institute of Public Policy and International Affairs at the American University of Beirut (Rami, “Thoughts While Flying to New York on September 11, 2009”, 9/14/09, Agence Global, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19598/thoughts_while_flying_to_new_york_on_september_11_2009.html) </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">This is a moment, therefore, to consider whether the “global war on terror” since late 2001 has achieved its aims, made the United States and the world safer, and reduced the number and capabilities of terror organizations around the world. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The war in Afghanistan that is now escalating in many ways closes the circle on two parallel and deeply linked aspects of both global terror and the “global war on terror” that the United States would do well to appreciate more profoundly at this moment of remembering. The first is the reality that foreign troops that invade another country -- even with cause -- will always elicit strong local resistance, often a fight to the death. Afghanistan has taught this lesson several times to invaders and the world. </span></span>Al-Qaeda’s “global jihad” crystallized and spread from Afghanistan in the late 1980s and early 1990s in order to drive the Soviet Union out of Afghanistan. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">When a foreign army attacks a distant land, the home side almost always wins in the end. The Al-Qaeda group that Osama Bin Laden forged in Afghanistan actually ignited from embers that were first felt in his home country of Saudi Arabia, again in response to the presence of a foreign army, in that case the US armed forces’ lengthy stay there to</span></span> fight and contain Saddam Hussein and his Baath Party leadership after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990. The second phenomenon that we should consider thoroughly on this eighth anniversary of the 9/11 attack is the structural nature and various linkages of the Al-Qaeda-like movements that continue to develop. We need to ask this question every time we remember 9/11 or civilians killed by Western armies seeking to avenge 9/11: Has the “global war on terror” contained or stimulated the development of terror organizations dedicated to fighting the West and what they consider to be apostate Islamic regimes? Is the global threat from such jihad-inspired terrorism greater or smaller than it was in 2001? The answers are inconclusive, but lean towards the negative, i.e., <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">attacks against Western targets have stabilized or declined, but the numbers of individuals and groups plotting such attacks or carrying them out in the world seem to be increasing</span></span> (though many of them are identified and stopped by law enforcement measures before they are carried out). <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If the United States plans to send more troops to Afghanistan in an attempt to “win” the war there, thinking through the consequences would seem like a useful thing to do. Defeating terror is a legitimate and compelling goal. Sending your armies half way around the world to do so seems to stimulate not only nationalist resistance, it also instigates sharper motivations, more lethal capabilities, and more effective linkages among jihadist terrorists around the world</span></span>. Today as compared to eight years ago -- according to the best analyses I have seen from European and Arab experts working for international organizations in Geneva, who must remain anonymous due to the neutral status of their organizations -- <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the world of Al-Qaeda and its associates has expanded into three distinct but related tiers that form a single overall network. Al-Qaeda’s core leadership in the northwest Pakistan mountains now provides global leadership and inspiration, more than operational management</span></span>. Secondly, a series of Al-Qaeda “franchises,” as in North Africa, the Arabian Peninsula, or Iraq, carry out operations that are often locally initiated and funded. And <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a third tier of Islamist militant groups, like Al Shabab movement in Somalia, are inspired by Al-Qaeda</span></span> but operate totally independently for local goals. Finally, we may be seeing a fourth tier developing, in the form of small groups of individuals in Europe or North America who are radicalized and decide to carry out attacks on their own, without any contacts with the other three tiers. Afghanistan has demonstrated important things in the last six months: <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">An expanded foreign troop presence will trigger more attacks against the troops. Nationalist appeals to fight the foreign invaders fall on fertile ears and attract Taliban recruits all across Afghanistan</span></span>. And <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">bomb-making and missile-launching technical skills from Iraq and other places are being absorbed by the Taliban and other groups fighting the Western armies. More US troops and an expanded war in Afghanistan would probably achieve these things again, while also perhaps revitalizing the operational activities of the core Al-Qaeda leaders. </span></span></span>



Independently, the surge destabilizes Pakistan and causes extinction
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington citing Bacevich, 9</span></span> <span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">(George Washington, former adjunct professor and head writer of the Washington blog, Andrew J. Bacevich, professor of international relations at Boston University, December 4, 2009, “A Cheaper and More Effective Military Strategy for Afghanistan”, http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2009/12/better-military-strategy-for.html) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Meanwhile, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the chief effect of allied military operations there so far has been not to defeat the radical Islamists but to push them across the Pakistani border</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. As a result, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">efforts to stabilize Afghanistan are contributing to the destabilization of Pakistan, with **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">potentially devastating implications. </span>**</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">September's bombing of the Marriott hotel in Islamabad suggests that the extremists are growing emboldened. Today and for the foreseeable future,</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> no country poses a greater potential threat to U.S. national security than does Pakistan. To risk the stability of that nuclear-armed state in the vain hope of salvaging Afghanistan would be a terrible mistake.</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> All this means that </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the proper U.S. priority for Afghanistan should be not to try harder but to change course. The war in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> (like the Iraq War) </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">won't be won militarily</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. It can be settled—however imperfectly—only through politics. The new U.S. president needs to realize that </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">America's real political objective in Afghanistan is actually quite modest: to ensure that terrorist groups like Al Qaeda can't use it as a safe haven</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> for launching attacks against the West. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Accomplishing that won't require creating a modern, cohesive nation-state.</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> U.S. officials tend to assume that power in Afghanistan ought to be exercised from Kabul. Yet the </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">real influence in Afghanistan has traditionally rested with tribal leaders and warlords. Rather than challenge that tradition, Washington should work with it.</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Offered the right incentives, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">warlords can accomplish U.S. objectives more effectively and more cheaply than Western combat battalions</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. The basis of U.S. strategy in Afghanistan should therefore become decentralization and outsourcing, offering cash and other emoluments to local leaders who will collaborate with the United States in excluding terrorists from their territory. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This doesn't mean Washington should blindly trust</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> that </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">warlords</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> will become America's loyal partners. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U.S. intelligence agencies should continue to watch Afghanistan closely, and the Pentagon should crush any jihadist activities that local powers fail to stop themselves</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. As with the Israelis in Gaza, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">periodic airstrikes may well be required to pre-empt brewing plots </span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">before they mature. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Were U.S. resources unlimited and U.S. interests in Afghanistan more important, upping the ante with additional combat forces might make sense. But U.S. power — especially military power — is quite limited these days, and U.S. priorities lie elsewhere. Rather than committing more troops</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, therefore, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> new </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">president should withdraw them while devising a more realistic — and more affordable — strategy for Afghanistan.</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> In other words, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">America's war strategy is increasing instability in Pakistan. Pakistan has nuclear weapons. So the surge could very well decrease not only American national security but **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">the security of the entire world. </span>**</span></span></span>







Contention Two: Jirga 

The June Jirga was a promising first step to bring stability to Afghanistan, but the process remains fragile.
[[#_Toc270873668]]<span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873668;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Haqbeen</span></span>, Asia Foundation’s Program Planning & Development Director, 6-23**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">-</span>**20<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">10</span></span>. [Asia Foundation, Can Afghanistan’s Traditional Jirgas Bring Hope for Peace?, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://asiafoundation.org/in-asia/2010/06/23/can-afghanistan%E2%80%99s-traditional-jirgas-bring-hope-for-peace/]]</span><span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873668;">]</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">During last year’s presidential election, Hamid Karzai promised to call a jirga to promote peace and reconciliation for Afghanistan’s future. After two postponements, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the peace jirga finally took place in</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> early </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">June </span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">with 1,700 delegates gathering in Kabul. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Some</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in the Afghan and international press </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">have criticized the results, but the primary goal of the jirga</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> – </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">to take initial steps toward peace – was largely accomplished.</span>**</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Afghanistan peace jirga Nearly 1,700 delegates gathered in Kabul for a peace jirga in early June. Many involved in organizing the jirga adhere to an old Afghan proverb: Blood cannot be washed by blood. According to a 2008 report by the International Council on Security, the Taliban now hold a permanent presence in 72 percent of Afghanistan. This has contributed to a shift within </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">some in the Afghan government and</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> the international community to think that </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">inclusive negotiations are imperative to achieving peace and stability;</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> and that </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">reconciliation will not come if fighting continues</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">The jirga, a traditional council comprised of elders and influential, elected community leaders, stands as one of Afghanistan’s long-standing customs. National and regional multi-tribal jirgas date back to the 18th century, when Afghans – under Mirwais Khan Hotak’s leadership – sought independence from Gorgin Khan, the Persian governor of Kandahar, when jirga members collectively decided to force Gorgin’s troops from Kandahar. In 1747, community elders in Kandahar convened a jirga to appoint their new leader, Ahmad Shah Abdali (or Ahmad Shah Baba), the founder of modern Afghanistan. Since the fall of the Taliban in 2001, jirgas have continued to address momentous issues. The 2002 Emergency Loya Jirga nominated representatives to facilitate the transition from the interim administration, established by the Bonn Agreement, to the formation of the transitional administration. Some 1,550 delegates – including 200 women from Afghanistan’s 364 districts – attended. In November 2003, Afghanistan’s new constitution was unveiled, debated, and subsequently approved by 502 delegates at the Constitutional Loya Jirga in 2004. In 2007, President Karzai initiated a joint Afghanistan-Pakistan Peace Jirga to foster cross-border communication and cooperation. The Asia Foundation was one of two NGOs providing support (the other was the German GTZ) for the 2010 peace jirga. Asia Foundation staff from our office in Kabul – Abdullah Ahmadzai, Najibullah Amiri, Roohafza Ludin, Abdul Ghafoor Asheq, Najla Ayubi, and myself – helped by providing logistical, procedural, and administrative assistance, as well as by organizing outreach campaigns to inform the Afghan public about the jirga’s objectives. Meeting security and logistical needs for 1,700 delegates was an enormous challenge that took several months. Coordination with the president’s protection services, which controlled the overall security for the jirga, was especially difficult. In addition to time and funding constraints, there was no clear mandate on how to convene the jirga, while the relationship between the government and the international community was unclear, partially because the international community didn’t clearly announce their support for the jirga. Despite ambiguity and confusion, the jirga’s Secretariat was able to meet many difficult challenges, like refurbishing the giant tent where the jirga took place and the Kabul Polytechnic University dormitory where delegates stayed, while simultaneously building a dining hall. Delegates came from many positions and backgrounds, including members of the National Assembly and Provincial Councils, governors, members of the National Ulema Council, refugees living in Pakistan and Iran, the disabled, nomads, businessmen, elders, and representatives from educational, cultural, and social institutions. Twenty percent of the delegates were women. Members of armed opposition groups did not receive invitations since the jirga was consultative in nature and specifically designed to determine how to negotiate with these groups. Two prominent, controversial Afghan leaders, Mohammad Mohaqiq and Abdul Rashid Dostum, did not participate. Both claimed they were not invited, although Dostum’s name was announced as a delegate. During President Karzai’s opening speech, several rockets exploded nearby, causing a small battle to break out, followed by two suicide bombings that detonated just outside of the jirga site. Despite the attacks, the jirga continued. Soon after his speech, and after the dust settled from the scare outside, members from 28 elected committees debated common areas of concern, including: the strength of the government; the administration’s reputation as corrupt and for granting un-merited appointments; civilian house searches by the international military; timeframe for the coalition’s presence; influence from Afghanistan’s neighbors; lack of preconditions for peace negotiation; role of Ulamaas in both Afghanistan and other Islamic countries; removal of certain opposition leaders from the United Nations blacklist; and how inclusive negotiations should be. A proposal to send a group of women to the families of Taliban members was accepted by the jirga and acknowledged by President Karzai. In Afghan culture, women have historically served as agents of peace and have often at times acted as mediators between opposition sides. A few days after the jirga concluded, the president ordered a review of all prisoners being held in Afghan jails, and declared that those prisoners held without evidence would be released – a move well received by most Afghans. The following Sunday, two respected members of Karzai’s government resigned after being questioned over the attack on the jirga by anti-government elements. This move gave the impression that the president is serious and the international community appears supportive of the jirga’s stated resolutions.</span> <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">On June 6</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, 2010, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Tolo TV quoted a Taliban spokesperson as saying that the Taliban agrees with some of the peace jirga’s resolutions. In this environment – **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">albeit extremely fragile</span>** – if the Afghan government implements the resolutions, the Taliban may be in the position to enter negotiations with the government</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">.</span> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This jirga is the first time in eight years that the Afghan government has consulted with the people on a national issue</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. A great percentage of the delegates will deliver messages of peace to their constituencies and, in turn, will create greater opportunity for involvement in the new civic education peace process. However, expectations must be managed: the Afghan public should not falsely be led to believe that the jirga will magically resolve all issues and bring peace. As the long road has shown, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">peace cannot come overnight – but **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">a much-needed process has begun.</span>** </span></span></span>





[[#_Toc270873669]]

The surge will block any chance of successful Jirga reconciliation—blocks Taliban participation. 
[[#_Toc270873670]]<span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873670;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Abdel-Magid</span></span>, researcher for Voice for Nonviolence, 7-16-20<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">10</span></span>. [Eurasia Review, The Impediment For Political Settlement In Afghanistan, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.eurasiareview.com/201007165137/the-impediment-for-political-settlement-in-afghanistan.html]]</span><span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873670;">]</span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">During Afghanistan’s 2009 presidential election, Hamid </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Karzai promised to call a jirga to encourage peace and political settlement for Afghanistan’s future</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. Jirga is a Pashto term for a tribal assembly of elders which makes decisions by consensus. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">For centuries, Afghans have used jirgas to resolve differences and tribal conflicts</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. In the past, Afghans organized jirgas for their own affairs that were free of foreign interference and demands. This time, the National Consultative Peace Jirga (NCPJ) that Hamid Karzai convened </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">on June 2nd</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> to June 4th, 2010, has been criticized as a waste of time for not following normal tribal structure and, more importantly, because the central government was influenced by foreign support. </span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">President Hamid Karzai hosted the three-day Peace Jirga in Kabul for discussing the terms by which tribal leaders, the Taliban and the government could envision an end to the ongoing war. Top Taliban leaders boycotted the Jirga because they did not trust the foreign influence over the Afghan government. Nevertheless, the Jirga moved forward with the following terms: NATO forces are to end house searches and aerial bombings; the Karzai government and international forces are to assure the safety of Taliban members; and Taliban prisoners in American and Afghan custody are to be released. Karzai supported the Jirga’s proposal for amnesty for Taliban members and removal of their names from the United Nation’s black list. The gathering ended with the agreement that the Afghan government must pursue talks with the Taliban. Many Afghan officials believe the Peace Jirga will not bear fruit unless top Taliban leaders are included in all levels of negotiation. </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Since 2001, the U.S.</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> government </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has persistently discarded proposals made to hold any dialogues with the Taliban</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> for a political settlement. Instead, the Bush and Obama administrations chose a military solution to the Afghan problems. However, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">some U.S. officials have started to realize that this war will not come to an end with military force</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. Richard Holbrooke, the U.S. special envoy to Pakistan and Afghanistan says “the continuing Afghan war will not end in a military triumph,” as the U.S. faces increasing casualties amongst its troops. He also indicated that Washington comprehends </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">that a political settlement in Afghanistan will ultimately be necessary to bring the war to an end</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, saying, “This war is not going to end on the deck of a battleship like World War II</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.” Holbrooke believes that the political settlement should entail the participation of the Taliban members in the Afghan government</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. He pointed out, however, that the U.S. will not allow any settlement with al-Qaeda. </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Taliban groups have not totally excluded talks as an option</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, but they have so far rejected joining any negotiations until all coalition forces leave the country. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The problem is that in the most recent Jirga,</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> President Karzai informed the delegates at the outset; “There is no mention of a key Taliban demand that NATO troops leave Afghanistan,” when in fact that was one of the Taliban’s key demands. Ironically, the Jirga </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">took place as US</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> and NATO </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">military planners were preparing to escalate an offensive against the Taliban in Kandahar</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> province. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The military surge was an</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> added </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">impediment</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> which </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">undermined the</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> already controversial </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Jirga process and any hope for legitimate peace talks in the future</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. Meanwhile, the rising number of Afghan civilian casualties caused by mistaken NATO attacks during the operation is blocking any justification for the continued U.S. and NATO presence. </span>



[[#_Toc270873671]]

The jirga process is key to stability in Afghanistan. 
[[#_Toc270873672]]<span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873672;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">10</span></span>, “Jirga shows the way ahead”, http://www.khaleejtimes.com/DisplayArticleNew.asp?xfile=data/editorial/2010/June/editorial_June11.xml&section=editorial&col=</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Afghan tribal elders have suggested the obvious</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. Urging President Hamid Karzai to immediately open a line of communication with the Taleban, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">the jirga has</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> at least **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">hinted at a way out of the mess</span>**</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. On the conclusion of the three-day national peace talks in Kabul, tribesmen were unanimous in asking the government to offer amnesty and job incentives to induce militants to give up arms. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This is in contrast to the approach that the</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> fragile </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">government</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in Kabul </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is exercising, by</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> concentrating on capturing and </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">eliminating all those who differ with the order of the day. Karzai must heed to this piece of advice, as the trigger-happy approach</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> and successive hunt-and-flush operations </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">have only led to chaos and conflict</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in the region. </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">If such a process is initiated, it could be the beginning of a path to help return Afghanistan back to stability</span>**</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Though the Taleban are not an easy nut to crack, it will at least lead to a sense of confidence building measures</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Karzai</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, whose despicable governance and Kabul-confined writ are supposed to be the main weaknesses, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has an opportunity to deliver.</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> He has himself hinted at bringing the Taleban on board, in order to accelerate the process of nation building and restoring the sense of oneness in the war-weary country. While going through the jirga’s recommendations, Karzai should not exhibit politics of exigency, and ensure that the task of reconciliation and rapprochement is carried forward at the earliest. Indeed, this will be a leadership test for the president, who will be required to do a lot of balancing act in advocating the cause of a just peace with the so-called rogue elements on board. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The coalition</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> of the willing, which apparently plans to stay put </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> for a long time, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">also has an opportunity to recast its strategy. The history of this</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> landlocked </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">country is</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> witness to the fact </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">that no foreign occupier could dig heels</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, come what may. Rather, Afghanistan has been Soviets and Americans Waterloo, alike. The Pakhtoon, who constitute more than 70 per cent of the population, need to be harnessed and accommodated in the affairs of the state. So is the status quo with the Taleban. Militant or otherwise, Talebanisation is a frame of mind in this part of the world, as it stands for a country and government free from the strings of occupation. Neither is this a debatable demand, nor an illegitimate one to be brushed aside. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This is why even military strategists in</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Brussels and P</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">entagon had hinted at cultivating moderate elements in the Taleban’s rank and file to achieve a **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">broad-based settlement</span>**</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. It’s time for Karzai to do some trekking in the barren and inhospitable landscape of the country, and reach the people who have been condemned and coerced since 2001. The 1,600 tribal leaders who had pinned their hopes in nationalism and politics of fraternity should not be taken for a ride. Their words of wisdom can make the difference. Karzai will be better advised to act as a catalyst in the process of change. </span></span>



[[#_Toc270873673]]

Reconciliation is the only route to Afghan peace. Only the bottom-up format allows integrated responses and sustainable peace
[[#_Toc270873674]]<span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873674;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Waldman</span></span>, Policy and Advocacy Adviser, Oxfam International, Afghanistan, “Afghanistan: Development and Humanitarian Priorities,” Oxfam Report, January 31, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; font-weight: normal;">200</span></span><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">8</span></span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Almost all of the peace-building</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> work in Afghanistan </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has been at a political level</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, where there are links to warlordism, corruption or criminality, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">or</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> it is </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">target-limited</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, such as the disarmament programmes. Initiatives such as the Action Plan on Peace, Reconciliation and Justice are significant, but lack clarity and are primarily concerned with peace and reconciliation at a national level. Implementation of the Plan has been non-existent or extremely limited.67 Moreover, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">most peace-building measures only marginally</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, indirectly or partially </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">concern the people</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> of Afghanistan. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The capacity of</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> Afghan </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">communities to resolve their **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">own disputes</span>**, and</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> build and <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">sustain peace, </span></span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has largely been neglected</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. The </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">recent deterioration</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in security, particularly in the south and south-east of Afghanistan, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is evidence **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">that top-down approaches</span>** are</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> by themselves </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">inadequate</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, without parallel nationwide, peace-work at ground level. War has fractured and strained the social fabric of the country and has deepened widespread poverty, which is itself a cause of insecurity. An Oxfam Security Survey of 500 people in six provinces shows that </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">disputes at a local level often have root causes in poverty, and</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> are largely related to resources, particularly land and water, family matters or </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">inter-community</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> and tribal </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">differences</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Local disputes</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> frequently </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">lead to violence</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> and insecurity, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">which</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> not only destroys quality of life and </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">impedes development work, but is also exploited by</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> commanders or </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">warlords to strengthen</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> their positions in the wider </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">conflict. Security threats, are diverse</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> – not only the Taliban as is sometimes portrayed – </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in many cases they </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">have local roots</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> or connections. In rural areas, predominantly </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">local mechanisms are used to resolve disputes, especially</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> community or tribal councils of elders (known as </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">jirgas</span>**</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> or shuras), and district governors. Recommendations Promote community peace-building </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There is a clear need for</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> widespread community peace-building. This is </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a participatory, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">bottom-up</span>** approach, which strengthens community capacities to resolve</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> disputes and </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">conflict</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">; to develop trust and social cohesion within and between communities; </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and to promote</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> inter-ethnic and inter-group </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">dialogue. It focuses on capacity building in mediation, negotiation and conflict resolution</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> techniques and supports civil society and schools’ involvement in local peace and development. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Existing</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> community peace- building </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">programmes, </span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">implemented by Afghan and international NGOs, including Oxfam, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">have been highly effective</span>**</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. An independent analysis of the work of one peace- building NGO in western Afghanistan concluded that the programmes had a major positive impact on local security and that it was ‘</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a creative initiative at the forefront of enabling</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> and supporting </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">what is truly wanted by Afghan</span>**</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> partners and </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">communities</span>**</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">.’//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">68</span>// Thus, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">donors should significantly expand support for</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> NGOs and civil society actors carrying out </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">such work</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span></span></span>



[[#_Toc270873675]]
Afghan instability spillover to Pakistan sends off a nuclear security threat to the world 
<span class="AuthorDate">Brown, 10</span>--- <span style="color: black;">professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service</span> (6/23/10, VANDA FELBAB, The Sydney Herald, “In Afghanistan the Cost in Sacrifice is High, But that cost must be paid,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.smh.com.au/opinion/politics/in-afghanistan-the-cost-in-sacrifice-is-high-but-that-cost-must-be-paid-20100622-yvgp.html</span>) 
<span style="line-height: normal;">The long hot spring and summer in Afghanistan have brought mixed, and sometimes very bitter, news. United States forces have experienced some of the bloodiest months. This week Australia lost three soldiers and the British death toll reached 300. Other allies have experienced similar losses. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Insecurity continues to be very high in many parts of Afghanistan</span></span><span class="Heading4Char">.</span> The Marja operation to clear the Taliban from one of its strongholds seemed to go well during the initial operations, but insecurity has crept back, threatening the progress. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In southern Afghanistan the Taliban are campaigning to assassinate government officials, and even ordinary Afghans who take part in programs sponsored by the international coalition, such as rural development</span></span><span class="Heading4Char">.</span> Kandahar - the second-most strategic area after Kabul - was supposed to be the locus of the military push this summer. But Kandaharis have largely rejected strong military action, prompting strategy change to one of economic aid arriving first and buying political support for tougher security operations later. <span style="border: none windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: none windowtext 0in; padding: 0in;">Advertisement: Story continues below</span> <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Problematic and often rapacious warlords-cum-government officials abound, driven by power and profit, and undermine efforts to improve</span></span><span class="Heading4Char"> governance</span>. The central government remains an uneasy partner, and President Hamid Karzai is often seen as unwilling to focus on service delivery and to combat pervasive corruption. All this has many asking: why are we there? <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">A key objective in Afghanistan is to make sure it does not again become a haven for virulent salafi groups - extremist Sunni religious groups that embrace violent jihad against apostates and infidels - like al-Qaeda. The September 11 attacks were perpetrated out of Afghanistan, and al-Qaeda - while now largely in Pakistan - has lost none of its zeal to strike Western countries and undermine governments in Asia and the Middle East</span></span><span class="Heading4Char">. </span>If part of Afghanistan came to be controlled by salafi groups or the Taliban sympathetic to such groups, their capacity to increase the lethality and frequency of their terrorist attacks would only increase. Nor can the counter-terrorism objective be easily accomplished from afar. Human intelligence and co-operation from on-the-ground local actors is often critical for the success of counter-terrorism operations. However, few Afghans, including the powerbrokers in charge of militias who co-operate with the international force, will have an interest in persisting in the effort if they believe it abandoned them to the mercy of the Taliban. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">An equally important strategic reason for the sacrifices in Afghanistan is to prevent a further destabilisation of Pakistan and, as a result, the entire Central and South Asian region. In Pakistan, its tribal areas and Baluchistan have been host to many of these salafi groups, and the Afghan Taliban uses them as safe havens</span></span>. But while Pakistan's co-operation in tackling these safe havens is important for the operations in Afghanistan, the reverse is also true. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If Afghanistan is unstable and harbours salafi groups that leak into Pakistan, Pakistan becomes deeply destabilised. Any collapse or internal fragmentation in Pakistan could set off one of the most dangerous security threats in Asia, and the world. Pakistan is a large Muslim country with nuclear weapons, existing in a precarious peace with neighbouring India. The Pakistani state has been hollowed out, with its administrative structures in steady decline since its inception, major macro-economic deficiencies, deep poverty and marginalisation that persists amid a semi-feudal power distribution, often ineffective and corrupt political leadership, social and ethnic internal fragmentation, and challenged security forces.</span></span> The internal security challenge is far more insidious than recently experienced by the Pakistani military in the tribal and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa areas: far more than the Pashtun Pakistani Taliban in the tribal areas, it is the Punjabi groups - such as the Punjabi Taliban, Lashkar-e-Taiba, Sipah-e-Sahaba - who pose a deep threat to Pakistan<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. The more Pakistan feels threatened by a hostile government or instability in Afghanistan, the less likely it will be willing and able to take on these groups. A defeat in Afghanistan would greatly boost salafi groups throughout the world: a great power would, again, be seen as having been defeated by the salafists in Afghanistan. </span></span></span>



[[#_Toc270873679]]

<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Freezing troop levels will get the Taliban on board for the Jirga </span></span>
[[#_Toc270873680]]<span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873680;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Shahzad</span></span>, Pakistan Bureau Chief, Asia Times Online, February 3, 20<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">10</span></span>, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/LB03Df01.html</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">At the major international conference</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> on Afghanistan in London last Thursday, Afghan President Hamid </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Karzai called on the Taliban to take part in a loya jirga</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> (assembly of elders) - as a start to peace talks. The Taliban are widely reported as having responded that first they want all of the more than 110,000 foreign troops in Afghanistan to leave the country by 2011. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Asia Times Online</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, however, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has learned from well-connected sources in Afghanistan who have been **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">directly involved in</span>** backchannel **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">negotiations</span>** with the Taliban that there is an important nuance to the Taliban demand</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">That is, the U</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">must put an immediate halt to its plans to send </span>**</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">a </span>**<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">further 30,000 troops to Afghanistan</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> before withdrawal begins in 2011</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In return, the Taliban would be prepared to open up a channel of dialogue with the Americans,</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> through Saudi Arabia, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">while at the same time taking measures to reduce the level of hostilities in the country. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The key issue</span>** boils down to one of trust</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, that is, whether the US would be prepared to only send in replacements for previously deployed troops, given that the surge in forces was meant to be a cornerstone of its counter-insurgency plan as a means of softening up the Taliban before talks could begin in earnest. </span></span>



A new Loya Jirga is vital for Afghan democracy – it will boost public support for the US, oust Karzai, and undermines the Taliban
<span style="line-height: normal;"><span class="AuthorDate">Corn, 9</span> <span style="color: black;">– Ph.D. from the University of Paris and is a graduate of the U.S. Naval War College, currently on leave from the US State Department (Tony, “<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Toward a Kilcullen-Biden Plan? Bounding Counterinsurgency in Afghanistan,” Small Wars Journal, 10/21, </span> </span></span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: normal;">http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2009/10/toward-a-kilcullenbiden-plan/ </span>
<span style="line-height: normal;"><span style="color: black;">At the end of his detailed testimony on the fraud and obfuscation that occurred before, during and after the August elections, Ambassador Peter Galbraith concludes unequivocally: **“**President </span><span class="BoldUnderline">Obama needs a legitimate Afghan partner to make any new strategy for the country work. However, the extensive fraud that took place on August 20 virtually guarantees that a government emerging from the tainted vote will not be credible with many Afghans</span><span style="color: black;">.”10 </span><span class="BoldUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">“Politics is perception.”</span>**</span> <span style="color: black;">Irrespective of the final verdict of the electoral commissions and/or the rhetorical contortions of NATO leaders, the elections are by now perceived as illegitimate by the Afghan population at large. If the Obama Administration has so far kept a low profile on this all-important issue, it is presumably because it did not want to confront the UN mission to Afghanistan before the UN Security Council’s decision to extend ISAF’s mandate for another year (October 8). Now that NATO’s mandate has been extended and that the UN itself has (obliquely) acknowledged the magnitude of the electoral fraud, the worst mistake the U.S. and NATO allies could do would be to downplay the legitimacy problem, and to signal a willingness to continue to do business as usual with the “devil we know.” By </span><span class="BoldUnderline">condoning in Afghanistan the kind of fraud it condemned four months earlier in Iran, the West would not buttress Karzai’s legitimacy - it would simply, irremediably, undermine its own legitimacy in the eyes of the Afghan population. </span><span style="color: black;">Though hundreds of tribal leaders and officials from southern Afghanistan gathered in Kabul on September 2 to protest against the fraud, President Karzai, like the Bourbons of lore, appears to have learned nothing and forgotten nothing. The fact that Karzai has gone as far as to blame the fraud //investigation// (rather than the fraud itself) for the increase in violence and the decrease of foreign investment (how do you say //chutzpah// in Pashto?) only shows that he has lost touch with reality and that a coalition government cannot be a sustainable proposition in the long-term.</span> <span class="BoldUnderline">The Karzai problem is now bigger than the insurgency problem,</span> <span style="color: black;">and the insurgency problem itself remains bigger than the ISAF problem. As the ISAF Commander, General McChrystal, to be sure, could not but devote special attention to the performance of its troops (“ISAF is not adequately executing the basics of counterinsurgency warfare”), but ISAF is twenty percent of the equation at most. As David Kilcullen put it: Counterinsurgency is only as good as the government it supports. NATO could do everything right - it isn’t - but will still fail unless Afghans trust their government. Without essential reform, merely making the government more efficient or extending its reach will just make things worse. Only a legitimately elected Afghan president can enact reforms, so at the very least we need to see a genuine run-off election or an emergency national council, called a loya jirga, before winter. Once a legitimate president emerges we need to see immediate action from him on a publicly announced reform program, developed in consultation with Afghan society and enforced by international monitors. Reforms should include firing human rights abusers and drug traffickers, establishing an independent authority to investigate citizen complaints and requiring officials to live in the districts they are responsible for (fewer than half do).11 Of the two possible scenarios put forward by Kilcullen, the first one (a genuine run-off) does not appear to be a possibility in the short-term. As Galbraith pointed out - “by itself, a runoff is no antidote for Afghanistan's electoral challenges. The widespread problems that allowed for fraud in the first round of voting must be addressed,” and these systemic problems cannot be solved before the winter season. Even if they could, voter turnout, given current security conditions, could be even lower than 39 percent - thus imparting little legitimacy to the ultimate winner. In the short-term, then, <span class="Underline0">the </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline">only realistic option is to make of necessity virtue and convoke a new loya jirga</span><span style="color: black;"> while installing an interim coalition government. As Council on Foreign Relations Fellow Daniel Markey has argued: </span><span class="BoldUnderline">Washington's officials and pundits have a tendency to underestimate the importance of politics in Afghanistan, focusing instead on troop levels and budgetary expenditures as the primary measures of progress or failure. This is a mistake; a lasting victory in this war can only be won in partnership with Afghans, and victory over the Taliban will require a combination of state capacity and popular legitimacy</span><span style="color: black;">. Since Afghan state //capacity// is likely to be in short supply for the foreseeable future, //legitimacy// will be all the more necessary to achieve success. It's now clear that the massively rigged presidential election will neither confer legitimacy on the victor, nor turn the unpopular incumbent out of office-a double failure. .. Instead of tinkering at the margins, </span><span class="BoldUnderline">Washington </span><span style="color: black;">and its international partners </span><span class="BoldUnderline">should seize this opportunity to press Kabul to organize a second constitutional convention, or loya jirga. Like the last convention in 2003, it would bring together elected and traditional leaders from throughout Afghanistan to ratify a new structure for democratic governance.</span><span style="color: black;"> A second loya jirga offers at least three potential benefits. First, </span><span class="BoldUnderline">by reopening the door to nationwide participation in a meaningful political debate, a new constitutional convention might help to reenergize the Afghan public, shift the political momentum away from the Taliban, and offer an alternative to "more of the same" in Kabul.</span><span style="color: black;"> For Afghans who have become increasingly demoralized by the corrupt and ineffective practices of their government, a convention provides a forum for venting grievances that went unaddressed by the flawed presidential election process. And </span><span class="BoldUnderline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">even if a convention is closed to Taliban representation per se, the meeting could still provide an opportunity for the reconciliation and political empowerment of Afghanistan's most conservative Pashtun tribes -- a necessary step for ending the insurgency</span>**</span><span style="color: black;">. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">Second, a convention could address debilitating institutional problems enshrined in the current Afghan constitution. The present system is marked by dominant presidential authority,</span><span style="color: black;"> weak political parties, and limited democratic accountability at the provincial level. </span><span class="BoldUnderline">Few new democratic states have succeeded with such centralized governing structures, especially in countries wracked by civil conflict. …Third, a convention might offer a fresh start for the U</span><span style="color: black;">nited </span><span class="BoldUnderline">S</span><span style="color: black;">tates and the rest of the international community involved </span><span class="BoldUnderline">in Afghanistan. A bold new political initiative in Kabul would complement Washington's new counterinsurgency strategy, new military leadership, and renewed commitment to the war effort</span><span style="color: black;">. Recent European proposals to pull together another international conference on Afghanistan also suggest a desire to re-engage NATO allies and bolster confidence in the mission.”12 If the West “owes” anything to the Afghan people, it is the opportunity to hold a “free and fair” loya jirga without Western coercion – in contrast to 2003. </span></span>


[[#_Toc141628684]][[#_Toc141696438]][[#_Toc270873681]]
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="TagChar">Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should reduce its troop presence in Afghanistan to levels near those on December 1st, 2009. We reserve the right to clarify. </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>



Contention Three: Solvency 

The surge will fail—Afghanistan lacks the conditions that made previous surges successful. 
[[#_Toc270873682]]<span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873682;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Kaplan</span></span>, columnist, 9-19-200<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">8</span></span>. [Slate, Afghanistan Isn't Like Iraq Why a "surge" won't work there, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.slate.com/id/2200406]]</span><span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873682;">]</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">The problem is, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the conditions that made the surge succeed in Iraq</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> to a limited degree (more on that caveat later) </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">are very different from those in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">—so much so that the tactics employed in the one country have little relevance to the other. </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">It is indisputable that security in Iraq has improved. Casualties, insurgent attacks, and roadside bombings have greatly diminished. However, the surge is not the only—and probably not the main—cause of these trends. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">The biggest cause was the "Sunni Awakening," in which Sunni tribes reached out to form alliances with U.S. forces—at the tribal leaders' initiative, before the surge began—in order to beat back the Islamist jihadists of al-Qaida in Iraq, whom they had come to hate more than they hated the American occupiers. Petraeus promoted this development by paying other Sunni militiamen who joined their ranks. (He had pacified Mosul in just this way in the early days of the occupation, until the money ran out and the Bush administration didn't give him more, at which point Mosul went up in flames.) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">To the extent that the surge played a role, it wasn't so much the surge itself—the infusion of 25,000 extra U.S. combat troops—but rather what Petraeus ordered those troops to do. Rather than stationing them on remote superbases, as his predecessor had done, he put them in the neighborhoods to mix with the Iraqi people, earn their trust, gather intelligence, and try to keep them secure. In Baghdad especially, they also built massive walls throughout the city, physically separating the warring ethnic factions. But the situation in Iraq bears little resemblance to that of Afghanistan. Barnett </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Rubin, a professor at N</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">ew </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Y</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">ork </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">U</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">niversity and author of several books about the country, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">spells out some of the differences</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">: </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Iraq's insurgency is based in Iraq; Afghanistan's Taliban insurgents are based mainly</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> across the border </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in Pakistan. Iraq is urban, educated, and has great wealth</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, at least potentially, in its oil supplies; </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Afghanistan is rural, largely illiterate, and ranks as one of the world's five poorest countries</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. Iraq has some history as a cohesive nation (albeit as the result of a minority ruling sect oppressing the majority); Afghanistan never has and, given its geography, perhaps never will. </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Moreover, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the Taliban's insurgency is ideological, not ethno-sectarian</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> (except incidentally). Therefore, while some warlords and tribes have allied themselves with the Taliban for opportunistic or nationalistic reasons, and therefore might be peeled away and co-opted, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the conditions are not ripe for some sort of Taliban or Pashtun "Awakening</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">." Nor is there any place where walls might isolate the insurgents. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>





Conditions are getting better without the surge—every metric shows improvement. 
<span class="datestamp"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Tom </span></span><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Engelhardt</span></span><span class="datestamp"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute’s TomDispatch.com; he is the author of //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">The End of Victory Culture</span>// and //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">The American Way of War: How Bush’s Wars Became Obama’s</span>//, </span></span>7/12/<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">10</span></span><span class="datestamp"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, CBS News, //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Remind Me Again: Why Are We in Afghanistan?</span>//, </span></span><span style="mso-ansi-language: EN;">http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/07/12/opinion/main6671452.shtml</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">July 12, 2011, Washington, D.C.<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: italic;"> -- In triumphant testimony before a joint committee of Congress in which he was greeted on both sides of the aisle as a conquering hero, Gen. David Petraeus announced the withdrawal this month of the first 1,000 American troops from Afghanistan. “This is the beginning of the pledge the president made to the American people to draw down the surge troops sent in since 2009,” he said, adding, “and yet let me emphasize, as I did when I took this job, that our commitment to the Afghan government and people is an <span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.tomdispatch.com/blog/175271/tomgram%3A_william_astore%2C_operation_enduring_war/|enduring]]</span> one.” Last July, when Gen. Petraeus <span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.tomdispatch.com/blog/175266/tomgram%3A_robert_dreyfuss%2C_the_president_chooses_the_guru/|replaced]]</span> the discredited Gen. Stanley McChrystal as Afghan war commander, he was hailed as an “<span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/foreign-policy/106689-give-general-petraeus-every-opportunity-to-succeed-senjohn-mccain|American hero]]</span>” by Senator John McCain, as “<span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.newyorker.com/talk/comment/2010/07/05/100705taco_talk_packer?printable=true|the most talented officer of his generation]]</span>” by the New Yorker’s George Packer, and as “<span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/29/AR2010062901994_pf.html|the nation's premier warrior-diplomat]]</span>” by Karen DeYoung and Craig Whitlock of the Washington Post -- typical of the comments of both Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives at the time. Petraeus then promised that the United States was in Afghanistan <span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/07/03/AR2010070300921_pf.html|“to win.”]]</span> In the year since, the Taliban insurgency has been blunted and “a tipping point has been reached,” says a senior U.S. military official with the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan, who could speak only on the condition of anonymity, in keeping with the policy of his organization. </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">By every available</span>**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> measure -- IEDs or roadside bombs, suicide attacks, Taliban assassinations of local officials, allied casualties, and Afghan civilian casualties -- the intensity of the insurgency has weakened significantly. The Afghan military and police, though not capable of taking the lead in the fighting in their own country, have been noticeably strengthened by American and NATO training missions. President Hamid Karzai’s government, still considered weak and corrupt, has succeeded in putting an <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175040/tom_engelhardt_the_afghan_mask_slips|Afghan face]]</span> on the war. </span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-style: italic;">Democratic critics of Gen. Petraeus, and of President Obama’s surge strategy, were notably quiet this week as the general toured the capital’s power hotspots from John Podesta’s Center for American Progress to the <span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://voices.washingtonpost.com/right-now/2010/05/petraeus_salutes_team_kagan_at.html|American Enterprise Institute]]</span>, while being feted as the hero of the moment and a potential <span style="mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://firedoglake.com/2010/05/23/petraeus-hearts-irving-kristol-smiles-at-presidential-quip/|presidential candidate]]</span>in 2016. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">As in 2007, when he was appointed to oversee George W. Bush’s surge in Iraq after the critics said it couldn’t be done, the impressive charts the general brought to his congressional testimony once again vividly indicated otherwise. The situation in Afghanistan has undergone an Iraq-like change since the nadir of July 2010 when critics and proponents alike agreed that the nine-year-old war was foundering, the counterinsurgency strategy failing, and <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/06/25/obama-s-approval-ratings-slump-in-latest-newsweek-poll.html|polling]]</span> in the U.S. highlighted the war’s increasing unpopularity. </span></span></span>


[[#_Toc270873684]]

Blocking the surge is best—maintains current upward trajectory in Afghanistan. 
[[#_Toc270873685]]<span style="mso-bookmark: _Toc270873685;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Stewart,</span></span> Ryan Professor and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights at Harvard, author of The Places in Between and Prince of the Marshes, 7-17-200<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">8</span></span>. [TIME, How to Save Afghanistan, p. http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1823753,00.html]</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">So </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">what </span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">exactly </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">should we do about Afghanistan</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> now? </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">First, the West should not increase troop numbers</span>**</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In time, NATO allies</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, such as Germany and Holland, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">will probably want to draw down their numbers</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, and they should be allowed to do so. We face pressing challenges elsewhere. If we are worried about terrorism, Pakistan is more important than Afghanistan; if we are worried about regional stability, then Egypt, Iran or even Lebanon is more important; if we are worried about poverty, Africa is more important. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">A troop increase is likely to inflame Afghan nationalism because Afghans are</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> more </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">anti-foreign</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> than we acknowledge </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> the </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">support for our presence in the insurgency areas is declining. The Taliban</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, which was a largely discredited and backward movement, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">gains support by portraying itself as fighting</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> for Islam and Afghanistan </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">against a foreign</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> military </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">occupation.</span></span> </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Nor should we increase our involvement in government and the economy. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The more responsibility we take in Afghanistan, the more we undermine the credibility and responsibility of the Afghan government and encourage it to act irresponsibly</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. Our claims that Afghanistan is the "front line in the war on terror" and that "failure is not an option" have convinced the Afghan government that we need it more than it needs us. The worse things become, the more assistance it seems to receive. This is not an incentive to reform. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Increasing our commitment to Afghanistan gives us no leverage over the government</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Afghans increasingly blame us for the problems in the country: the evening news is dominated by stories of wasted development aid. The government claims that in 2007, $1.3 billion out of $3.5 billion of aid was spent on international consultants, some of whom received more than $1,000 a day and whose policy papers are often ignored by Afghan civil servants and are invisible to the population. Our lack of success despite our wealth and technology convinces ordinary Afghans to believe in conspiracy theories. Well-educated people have told me that the West is secretly backing the Taliban and that the U.S.'s main objective was to steal Afghanistan's emeralds, antiquities and uranium — and that we knew where Osama bin Laden was but had decided not to catch him. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Playing to Our Strengths </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">A smarter strategy would focus on two elements: more effective aid and a more limited military objective. We should target development assistance in provinces where we have a track record of success. Our investment goes further in stable and welcoming places like Hazarajat than it can in hostile, insurgency-dominated areas like Kandahar and Helmand, where we have to spend millions on security and the locals do not contribute to the project and will not sustain it after our departure. We should focus on meeting the Afghan government's request for more investment in agricultural irrigation, energy and roads. And we should increase our support to the most effective departments, such as education, health and rural development; they are good for the reputation of the Afghan state and the West. Creating more educated, healthier women and men and better transport, communications and electrical infrastructure may be only part of the story, but they are essential for Afghanistan's economic future. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Our efforts in nation-building, governance and counternarcotics should be smaller and more creative. This is not because these issues are unimportant; they are vital for Afghanistan's future. But only the Afghan government has the legitimacy, the knowledge and the power to build a nation. The West's supporting role is at best limited and uncertain. The recent elimination of the opium crop in Nangarhar, for instance, was driven by the will and charisma of a local governor and owed little to Western-funded "capacity-building" seminars. The greatest recent improvements in local government have come about through the replacement of local governors rather than through hundred-million-dollar training programs. Since these successes are often difficult to predict, we should invest in numerous smaller opportunities rather than bet all our chips on a few large programs. </span>


Card continues—No Text Removed 






Card Continues—No Text Removed 

<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">Our military strategy, meanwhile, should focus on counterterrorism — not counterinsurgency. Our presence has so far prevented al-Qaeda from establishing training camps in Afghanistan. We must continue to prevent it from doing so. But our troops should not try to hold territory or chase the Taliban around rural areas. We should also use our presence to steer Afghanistan away from civil war and provide some opportunity for the Afghans themselves to create a more humane, well-governed and prosperous country. This policy would require far fewer troops over the next 20 years, and they would probably be predominantly special forces and intelligence operatives. </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This strategy is</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> far from ideal. But it's </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the best option we've got</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. It might not allow us to build an Afghan nation. It would involve a very long-term policy of containment and management, and it may never lead to a clear victory or exit. But </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">unlike abandoning Afghanistan entirely</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, as we did in 1990, it </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would not leave a vacuum filled by dangerous neighbors</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">And unlike a policy of troop increases, this strategy would be less costly</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;">, more popular with voters, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">more sustainable</span>**</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> in the long term, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">less of a distraction</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt;"> from other global priorities </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and less likely to alienate Afghan nationalists and undermine the Afghan state. </span></span>

== == 
==1AC- GDS== 
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should reduce its military presence in Afghanistan to a level consistent with counterterrorism. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Contention 1 is hegemony </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">We’re not leaving in 2011, but the deadline itself is seen as withdrawal </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Rogin, 10</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">- staff writer for Foreign Policy, Prior to that, Josh covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly. Josh has also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution (Josh, “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/29, <span style="color: black;">http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">When General <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">David Petraeus</span> testifies today on Capitol Hill, his main job will be to carefully define the timeline for the beginning of America's exit from Afghanistan, a timeline that has stakeholders in Washington and throughout the region confused and concerned. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">"As the President has stated, July 2011 is the point at which we will begin a transition phase in which the Afghan government will take more and more responsibility for its own security," <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Petraeus wrote</span></span> in his <span style="color: black;">advanced questions</span> submitted to the Senate Armed Services Committee and obtained by //The Cable//. "As the President has also indicated<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, July 2011 is not a date when we will be rapidly withdrawing our forces </span></span>and -switching off the lights and closing the door behind us." </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">His job will</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> also <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">be to defend</span></span> President <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama's decision to set a public date for the beginning of the withdrawal in the first place</span></span>, by arguing that having a time line in the public discussion helps pressure the Afghans to move faster toward being able to govern and secure their country on their own. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">"I believe <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">there was value in sending a message of urgency -- July 2011... But it is important that July 2011 be seen for what it is: the date when a process begins, in which the reduction of US forces must be based on the conditions at the time, and not a date when the U.S. heads for the exits,</span></span>" he wrote to the committee. He stressed that multiple times that the pace of the drawdown would be "conditions based." </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">But even in his own writing to the committee, Petraeus acknowledged that the enemy, the Taliban and other insurgents in Afghanistan, are waiting out the coalition and biding their time until foreign forces decide to leave. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">"Insurgent leaders view their tactical and operational losses in 2010 as inevitable and acceptable. The Taliban believe they can outlast the Coalition's will to fight and believe this strategy will be effective despite short-term losses. The Taliban also believe they can sustain momentum and maintain operational capacity," he wrote. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">One of the main enablers of any U.S. exit is the development of the Afghan National Security Forces, which has not gone at the pace the coalition had hoped. Petraeus wrote that he would review the situation of the ANSF within four months of assuming command, if confirmed. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">As of the latest review, only 5 out of 19 Afghan National Army brigades can function without a majority of their functions supported by the U.S., according to Petraeus, and only 2 out of 7 major headquarters can function properly without significant coalition support. As of June 27, there are 7,261 ANA troops in the city of Kandahar and 6,794 Afghan soldiers in Helmand province, Petraeus wrote. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">He also said that a comprehensive plan to reintegrate some Taliban fighters is under final review with President <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Hamid Karzai</span> and "offers the potential to reduce violence and provide realistic avenues to assimilate Pashtun insurgents back into Afghanistan society." </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Petraeus promised to take a look at the rules of engagement that U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan feel are tying their hands in the fight, but he didn't say whether he was leaning toward changing them or not. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Meanwhile, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">confusion over the president's timeline persists both in Washington and abroad as interested parties try to interpret the July 2011 date in a way that serves their own political interests.</span></span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> House Speaker <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Nancy Pelosi</span>, D-CA, said Monday that there would be "<span style="color: black;">a serious drawdown</span>" next summer, seemingly getting ahead of the administration in an effort to appease the liberal wing of her caucus, which is threatening to not support more funding for the war. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Two of the committee members Petraeus will face today, Sens. <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">John McCain**,**</span> R-AZ, and <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Lindsey Graham</span>, R-SC, held a press conference Thursday to <span style="color: black;">announce their opposition</span> to setting any public date, no matter what the caveats. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Foreign leaders are especially confused, particularly the Afghan and Pakistani governments, who see a difference between public promises of drawdowns and private assurances from the administration </span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">that the July 2011 date would not precipitate large scale troop reductions. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">One high level diplomatic source said that Pakistani and Afghan leaders believe that they were told by National Security Advisor <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Jim Jones</span> that there was not going to be a big withdrawal and the there would be "no reduction in commitment" in July 2011. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">But <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">regardless of whether the administration sent mixed messages, the nuance of their time line policy has been misunderstood or ignored in the region, as various actors start to plan strategies with the expectation that U.S. troops are leaving</span></span>. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">"In retrospect, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">despite all the caveats, it was a mistake to put such a date certain for the beginning of withdrawal</span></span>," said <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Shuja Nawaz</span>, director of the South Asia Center at the Atlantic Council. "<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The word beginning was lost and it strengthens the ability of different interests to hedge, which is exactly what they've been doing."</span></span> </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Counterinsurgency is overstretching the military and overall leadership – counterterrorism focus is key to stop rising challengers </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Kretkowski, 10</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">– Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html) </span>

<span style="tab-stops: 36.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">I</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> now </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">oppose a counterinsurgency</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">(COIN) <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">strategy in Afghanistan and advocate a purely counterterror</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (CT) </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">strategy </span></span><span style="color: black;">(PDF link) there instead.</span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Blame history—or histories—that I've read recently, starting with Livy's works on early Rome (books I-V) last spring and Donald Kagan's //The Peloponnesian War// at the end of 2009. I've taken occasional dips back into Robert Kaplan's //Warrior Politics// and his source materials (Churchill, the Federalists, Machiavelli, Sun Tzu, and several others).</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: black;"> What I've taken from that reading is that </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U.S. must pull back</span></span><span style="color: black;"> from its current efforts to remake Iraq and Afghanistan in the image of a Western democracy, </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">or risk long-term political and economic exhaustion</span></span><span style="color: black;">.</span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 36.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> What follows is not an argument about morality, and readers may find much of it amoral. It //is// about making cold-blooded political and </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">economic calculations about where U.S. national interests will lie in the next decade. They do not lie in an open-ended COIN mission.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> The history of the Peloponnesian War is particularly relevant here. Athens began fighting Sparta with the resources of an empire and thousands of talents of silver in the bank—enough to fight expensive, far-flung naval and land campaigns for three years without lasting financial consequences.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Athens was //rich//, and if peace with Sparta had come by the end of the third year, Athens would have continued to prosper and rule over much of the Mediterranean. (Athens had a "hard"—conquered or cowed—empire as opposed to the "soft" empire of alliances and treaties the U.S. currently has.)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> But the war with Sparta dragged on for decades, despite occasional peace overtures by both sides. By war's end—despite the spoils of battle and increased taxes and tribute extracted from its shrinking dominion—Athens was broke, depopulated by fighting and plague, bereft of its empire, and could no longer project power into the Mediterranean. Where its former interests ranged from Black Sea Turkey to southern Italy, it spent decades as a small-bore power and never regained its former strength or influence.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> I worry that the U.S. is similarly locked into an open-ended commitment to democratize a nation that is of regional rather than global importance—a parallel to Athens convincing itself that it had to conquer distant, militarily insignificant Sicily.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> "Winning" in Afghanistan</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 36.75pt;"> <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U.S. could "win" in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> where victory is defined as a stable, legitimate central government that can project power within its own borders. I don't doubt that the U.S. and its allies could accomplish this given enough time and resources. <span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">But</span></span> I think—as many COIN experts also do—that </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it will take at least another decade or more of blood and treasure to produce such a result, if ever</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Of course I'd like to see the results of a successful COIN campaign: a stable democracy, women's rights, and general prosperity for Afghans, who among all Asia's peoples surely deserve those things. I certainly want to end al-Qa'ida's ability to operate freely in South Asia and elsewhere.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> The U.S. is the only country that would both conceive of these missions and attempt to carry them out. But goals beyond keeping al-Qa'ida on the run don't serve the long-term interests of the U.S., and I am more interested in regaining and preserving U.S. hard power than I am in the rewards that would come from "winning" a lengthy COIN war.</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 36.75pt;"> <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">I fear the U.S. people and government becoming exhausted from the costs of a lengthy COIN effort, just as they are already exhausted from </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">(and have largely forgotten about) the</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Iraq</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> war. I worry that </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">if this fatigue sits in, the U.S. will abandon foreign-policy leadership</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> as it has done periodically throughout history.</span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 36.75pt;"> <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This outcome would be worse than a resurgent Taliban</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">, worse than Afghan women and men being further oppressed, </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and worse than al-Qa'ida having plentiful additional caves</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">to plot in.</span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 36.75pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Here are some signs of an exhaustion of U.S. power: </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U.S. is already overextended</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">, with commitments in Iraq (shrinking for now), </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 7.0pt;">Afghanistan (expanding), Yemen (pending) and Iran (TBD). At home, the U.S. economy remains feeble and in the long term is increasingly hostage to other nations for goods and services it no longer produces (and increasingly, no longer //can// produce).</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Even more worrisome is the U.S. credit situation. The wars, and much other U.S. government spending, are now heavily underwritten by other countries' purchases of debt the U.S. issues. It has borrowed trillions from foreign countries and especially China, which continues its steady, highly rational policy of promoting exports while freeriding under the American security umbrella (just as the U.S. once rode for free beneath Britain's).</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Over time, those countries accrue enough debt to have a say in U.S. policies that may threaten the dollar's value, which is why you now see high U.S. officials flying to Beijing to soothe PRC nerves and explain why America keeps borrowing money.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> At home, there are few resources to apply following a major disaster, such as a Katrina-style hurricane or a major earthquake.</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 36.75pt;"> <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The U.S. needs to start rebuilding its reserves—of capital, of credit, of political goodwill abroad, of military force—to be ready for these and more serious crises, for which we currently have few resources to spare. Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis);</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia). </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Our arguments are especially true with Obama’s recent troops surge – now is a key </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Kemp, 9/7</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> (Danny, Defense News, “Overstretched West Needs New Afghan Strategy: IISS,” <span class="BoldUnderline">[[http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?c=MID&s=TOP&i=4769295]]</span> 9/7/10) </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">LONDON - </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Western powers must change strategy in Afghanistan, focusing on al-Qaida militants and cutting troop numbers instead of pursuing failed attempts at nation-building</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">, a top think-tank said Sept. 7. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Urging a major rethink of President Obama's surge policy, the</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> London-based </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">I</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">nternational </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">I</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">nstitute for </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">trategic </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">tudies </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">said the international community was "pinned down" as the war entered its 10th year</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">"The co</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">unter-</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">surgency </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">strategy is too ambitious</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">," IISS director John Chipman said at the launch of the "Strategic Survey 2010," the institute's annual report on the global security situation. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Foreign forces should now pursue talks with local Taliban insurgents, target al-Qaida extremists who pose a global threat, and foster a more federal Afghanistan that recognizes the country's ethnic divisions,</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> he said. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">"</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">As the military surge reaches its peak and begins to wind down, it may become necessary</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> and is probably advisable </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">for outside powers to move to a containment and deterrence policy to deal with the international terrorist threat from the Afghan-Pakistan border regions,"</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> he said. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama has</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> recently appeared to step back from a pledge that U.S. forces would begin withdrawing from Afghanistan in July 2011. He has </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">already deployed 30,000 extra troops as part of Washington's new counter-insurgency strategy</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">But </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the IISS said it had become "increasingly questionable" whether big goals such as beating back the Taliban, building an Afghan government and security forces and eliminating corruption could be achieved</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">There were widespread concerns that </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the presence of around 150,000 foreign troops in Afghanistan was itself "what sustains and fuels the Taliban fighters," he said. </span></span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">International forces should return to the original aim of the invasion of Afghanistan after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks - to dismantle Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network and deny it a safe haven in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Al-Qaida's main operations had in any case shifted to Pakistan's troubled tribal areas bordering Afghanistan, Chipman said, calling for the West to engage more with regional powers including Pakistan and India. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">"For Western states to be pinned down militarily and psychologically (in Afghanistan) will not be in the service of their wider political and security interests</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">," Chipman added. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The need for a new policy is part of a wider picture left by the aftermath of the global financial crisis and by shifts in the balance of power, the 432-page IISS report said. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">It pointed to a group of "newly energized middle powers" including Turkey, Brazil, South Korea and the United Arab Emirates that were trying to extend their clout in their regions. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">"</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">With economies and nerves frayed, and the nationalization of foreign policy all the rage, the appetite for very ambitious collective long-term political-military goals is limited in the West</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">," according to the report. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Turkey and Brazil tried to help resolve Iran's stand-off with Western nations over its nuclear goals, while South Korea and the United Arab Emirates were involved with North Korea and Iran respectively, it said. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Australia, Indonesia and South Korea were promoting regional cooperation and "may in time become a diplomatic force to be reckoned with" against the expansion of Chinese power, it added. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The report said China and India both continued to grow in self-confidence, though the Asian giants still faced "uncomfortable strategic contact" on their border, particularly in Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Myanmar. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China's confidence was bolstered by riding out the financial crisis more quickly than other countries, though Beijing faced growing expectations to play a role in addressing world challenges</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">, it said. </span>

<span class="TagChar"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Afghanistan is a quagmire of attrition warfare sapping our morale and readiness</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>**

<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Kuhner, 9 </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">-</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) </span>

<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">America is losing the war in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. Rather than change course, President Obama is sending 21,000 additional U.S. troops. This will bring the total to 68,000 American soldiers fighting in Afghanistan, bolstering coalition forces to 110,000. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">troop surge,</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> however, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">will not work. Afghanistan has become</span></span> Mr. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama's Vietnam - a protracted quagmire</span></span> <span style="color: black;">draining precious American blood and treasure. August was the deadliest month for U.S. forces, with 47 soldiers killed by Taliban insurgents. More than 300 coalition troops have died in 2009. This is the highest toll since the war began in 2001, and there are still four months to go. </span></span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The tide of battle has turned against the West</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. The Taliban is resurgent. It has reasserted control over its southern stronghold in Kandahar. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Taliban is launching devastating attacks in the western and northern parts of the country - formerly stable areas. U.S. casualties are soaring. The morale of coalition forces is plummeting</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. Most of our allies - with the exception of the Canadians and the British - are reluctant to engage the Islamist militants. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">American public support for the war is waning.</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The conflict has dragged on for nearly eight years. (U.S. involvement in World War II was four years, World War I less than one.) Yet, America's strategic objectives remain incoherent and elusive. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The war's initial aim was to topple the Taliban and eradicate al Qaeda bases from Afghan territory. Those goals have been achieved. Washington should have declared victory and focused on the more important issue: preventing Islamic fundamentalists from seizing power in Pakistan, along with its nuclear arsenal. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Instead, America is engaged in futile nation-building. Mr. Obama, like President George W. Bush before him, believes Afghanistan must be transformed by erecting a strong central government, democracy and a modern economy. Washington argues this will prevent terrorism from taking root and bring about lasting "stability." </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Hence, following a recent reassessment of the war by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, U.S. commander in Afghanistan, the Obama administration is contemplating deploying 20,000 to 40,000 U.S. troops - on top of the 21,000 already pledged. Moreover, billions have been spent building irrigation canals, schools, hospitals and factories. Civilian advisers are being sent to encourage farmers to grow other cash crops besides opium poppies. Western aid money has been used to establish a massive Afghan army, a large police force and a swollen government bureaucracy. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Gen. McChrystal said this week that the situation is "serious," but not impossible. He still believes victory is within reach. His new strategy is to protect Afghan civilians from Taliban attacks. He also wants to create a lucrative jobs programs and improve local government services. The goal is to win the "hearts and minds" of the Afghan people. Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, says we must combat Afghanistan's "culture of poverty." Call it humanitarian war through social engineering. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Mr. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama's policy will result in a major American defeat - one that will signal the end of America as a superpower and expose us to the world as a paper tiger</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. Afghanistan is the graveyard of empires. The mighty British and Russian armies were humiliated in drawn-out guerrilla campaigns</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. The country's mountainous geography</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> and primitive tribal culture </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">are ideally suited for insurgent warfare. By sending in more troops, Washington is playing right into the Taliban's hands: We are enabling the Taliban to pick off our forces one by one as they wage a campaign of attrition.</span> </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Taliban blend with the local population, making it almost impossible for U.S. forces to distinguish combatants from civilians. American counterinsurgency efforts are thus alienating some of the locals</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. Initially welcomed as liberators,</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> we are</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> now </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">viewed </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">in some quarters </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as occupiers</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. Moreover, much of the West's aid money is siphoned off by greedy politicians in Kabul. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">President Hamid Karzai's government is corrupt, venal and ineffective. It barely controls one-third of the country. It is despised by many Afghans for its brutality and incompetence. In addition, Mr. Karzai's vice-presidential running mate is a drug trafficker. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The West's efforts to forge a cohesive national state based on federalism and economic reconstruction have failed. Warlords are increasingly asserting power in the provinces. The country is fractured along tribal and ethnic lines. The center cannot hold: Afghanistan remains mired in anarchy, blood feuds and weak, decentralized rule.</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">U.S. troops should be deployed to defend U.S. national interests. Their lives should never be squandered for an experiment in liberal internationalism. In fact, such a policy is morally grotesque and strategically reckless. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Mr. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama should quickly withdraw most U.S. forces from Afghanistan. American air power and small, flexible Special Forces units are more than enough to wipe out al Qaeda terrorists. The Taliban is too hated to reoccupy the country - unless our huge military and economic footprint drives numerous Afghans into the</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> evil, welcoming </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">arms of extremists.</span> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">This will obliterate hegemony </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pyne, 9</span></span> **<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">- </span>**<span class="justify1"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/) </span>

<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Since we invaded Iraq six and a half years ago and Afghanistan eight years ago, we have lost nearly 7,000 American soldiers and contractors killed in action with tens of thousands more severely wounded at the cost of a trillion dollars thus far</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> October has been the single deadliest month for US forces since the war began. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It shouldn’t take a military strategist to realize that after fighting a war for over eight years without any real idea how to win, it might be time to consider a drastic change in strategy.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> This should include a sober assessment of the cost/benefit analysis of staying and fighting at a rising cost in American blood and treasure versus conserving our military strength and bringing our troops home to defend America from terrorist attack. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The Soviets fought an eight year long war in Afghanistan before finally realizing that victory was not a possibility in a conflict which some say began a chain of events that resulted in the collapse of the Evil Empire thanks to Reagan’s support of proxy forces against the Soviet invaders. If the Soviet Union could not win after eight years of fighting in Afghanistan, what makes our leaders think that we can? </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The longer we keep large numbers of our troops fighting no-win counterinsurgency wars of attrition in Iraq and Afghanistan, the weaker and more vulnerable we will become to the point where eventually the American Empire</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">, as some call it</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, may</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">decline precipitously or<span style="color: black;"> perhaps even </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">collapse altogether</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span><span style="color: black;"> Worse yet, America’s increasing military weakness highlighted further by Obama’s ongoing demolition of our nuclear deterrent might invite a catastrophic attack from our from our Sino-Russian alliance enemies</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. Already some of our retired generals have stated that they believe our Army and Marine Corps ground forces have been broken by their over-deployment in</span></span><span style="color: black;"> the desert sands of Iraq and </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Afghanistan.</span></span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">If the Soviet Union could not win after eight years of fighting in Afghanistan, what makes our leaders think that we can? The longer we keep large numbers of our troops bogged down fighting two no-win counterinsurgency wars of attrition in Iraq and Afghanistan, the weaker and more vulnerable we will become to the point where eventually the American Empire, as some call it, may decline precipitously or perhaps even collapse altogether. Worse yet, America’s increasing military weakness highlighted further by Obama’s ongoing demolition of our nuclear deterrent, might invite a catastrophic attack from our from our Sino-Russian alliance enemies. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Already some of our retired generals have stated that they believe our Army and Marine Corps ground forces have been broken by their over-deployment in</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> the desert sands of Iraq and </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Afghanistan. This high tempo of deployments has resulted in much of our military equipment to break down while procurement and readiness are at their lowest levels over the past quarter century</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. Our national security always suffers when we get bogged down in wars where our troops are asked to bleed and die, but are not permitted by our political leaders to win. Our brave soldiers should never be allowed to sacrifice in this way without the hope of victory! The best way to support our troops is to bring them home to their families and make a commitment that we will not let a week go by without thanking a soldier for their willingness to risk life and limb to defend us all. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">What is it going to take to get our political leaders to realize that the costs of staying and fighting the long war in Iraq and Afghanistan greatly outweigh the costs of redeploying out of theater? The same voices we hear calling for us to send another 40,000 to 100,000 troops to Afghanistan are the ones that would have called for us to keep surging and fighting in Vietnam in perpetuity at the cost of hundreds of thousands of our soldiers lives. It didn’t make sense to do that then and it doesn’t make sense to do so now. Ronald Reagan won the Cold War against the Evil Soviet Empire in part by employing proxies to fight and win our battles for us. We need to learn from Reagan and re-employ a strategy of arming and supporting proxies both states and insurgent movements to fight our wars so our troops don’t have to. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">America needs to conserve its military strength for a time when we they may be called upon to fight great power enemies, not waste it bogged down fighting Vietnams in the desert</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">as we have been doing the past several years. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Until we do, we will remain in a state of imperial overstretch and strategic paralysis with no reserve forces</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">to fight new hypothetical wars of necessity </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and with a continuing window of vulnerability which our enemies will undoubtedly continue to exploit. North Korea has already been exploiting our window of vulnerability with their ongoing nuclear missile buildup as has</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> the Islamic Republic of </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Iran is doing with its near imminent development of weaponized nukes. Even Russia has done so with their invasion of US-ally Georgia </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">this past year. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Hegemony outweighs – superior to every alternative </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Kagan 7</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Hoover Institution - Stanford U, in Policy Review, No 144, <span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]</span>] </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, Americans have insisted on preserving regional predominance in East Asia; the Middle East; the Western Hemisphere; until recently, Europe; and now, increasingly, Central Asia. This was its goal after the Second World War, and since the end of the Cold War, beginning with the first Bush administration and continuing through the Clinton years, the United States did not retract but expanded its influence eastward across Europe and into the Middle East, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it is also engaged in hegemonic competitions in these regions with China in East and Central Asia, with Iran in the Middle East and Central Asia, and with Russia in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. The United States, too, is more of a traditional than a postmodern power, and though Americans are loath to acknowledge it, they generally prefer their global place as “No. 1” and are equally loath to relinquish it. Once having entered a region, whether for practical or idealistic reasons, they are remarkably slow to withdraw from it until they believe they have substantially transformed it in their own image. They profess indifference to the world and claim they just want to be left alone even as they seek daily to shape the behavior of billions of people around the globe. The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, if it ever went away, and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying — its regional as well as its global predominance. Were the United States to diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often through confrontation and wars of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic.It is easy but also dangerous to underestimate the role the United States plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability. For instance, the United States is the dominant naval power everywhere, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. Even when the United States engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible. Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today Europe ’s stability depends on the guarantee, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, that the United States could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">People who believe greater equality among nations would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that ’s not the way it works. International order does not rest on ideas and institutions. It is shaped by configurations of power. The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War II, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals in the United States and Europe. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world ’s great powers. Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt between Russia and Georgia, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible, as does conflict between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers, including the United States. Such conflicts may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they are more likely to erupt if the United States weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China ’s neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the United States as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene — even if it remained the world’s most powerful nation — could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. If the United States withdrew from Europe — if it adopted what some call a strategy of “offshore balancing” — this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, “offshore” role would lead to greater stability there. The vital interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more “even-handed” policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel ’s aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region, both on the seas and on the ground. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation. In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn ’t change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition. The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests. [[#note18]] And one could also expect the more powerful states of the region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn ’t changed that much. An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to “normal” or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again. The alternative to American regional predominance in the Middle East and elsewhere is not a new regional stability. In an era of burgeoning nationalism, the future is likely to be one of intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements. Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Independently, Overstretch of the military collapses hegemony and increases risk of nuclear miscalculation </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Florig</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="mso-ansi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">10</span></span> (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_code1259934.pdf?abstractid=1548783&mirid=1|http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/ Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_ code1259934.pdf?abstractid= 1548783&mirid=1]]</span>) </span>

<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There is an even larger question than whether the U.S. will remain the hegemonic state within a western dominated system</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. How long will the West remain hegemonic in the global system?25 Since Spengler the issue of the decline of the West has been debated. It would be hard to question current western dominance of virtually every global economic, political, military, or ideological system today. In some ways the domination of the West seems even more firm than it was in the past because the West is no longer a group of fiercely competing states but a much more cohesive force. In the era of western domination, breakdown of the rule of each hegemonic state has come because of competition from powerful rival western states at the core of the system leading to system-wide war. The unique characteristic of the Cold War and particularly the post-Cold War system is that the core capitalist states are now to a large degree politically united and increasingly economically integrated. In the 21st century<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, two factors taking place outside the West seem more of a threat to the reproduction to the hegemony of the American state and the western system than conflict between western states: 1. resistance to western hegemony in the Muslim world and other parts of the subordinated South and 2. the rise of newly powerful or reformed super states,</span></span>. Relations between the core and periphery have already undergone one massive transformation in the 20th century—decolonization. The historical significance of decolonization was overshadowed somewhat by the emergence of the Cold War and the nuclear age. Recognition of its impact was dampened somewhat by the subsequent relative lack of change of fundamental economic relations between core and periphery. But <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">one of the historical legacies of decolonization is that ideological legitimation has become more crucial in operating the global system</span></span>. The manufacture of some level of consent, particularly among the elite in the periphery has to some degree replaced brute domination. Less raw force is necessary but in return a greater burden of ideological and cultural legitimation is required. Now it is no longer enough for colonials to obey, willing participants must believe. Therefore, cultural and ideological challenges to the foundations of the liberal capitalist world view assume much greater significance. Thus the resurgence of Islamic fundamentalism, ethnic nationalism, and even social democracy in Latin America as ideologies of opposition have increasing significance in a system dependent on greater levels of willing consent. As Ayoob suggests, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the sustained resistance within the Islamic world to western hegemony may have a “demonstration effect” on other southern states with similar grievances against the West</span></span>.26 The other new dynamic is the re-emergence of great states that at one time or another have been brought low by the western hegemonic system. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China</span></span>, in recent centuries low on the international division of labor, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">was in some ways a classic case of a peripheral state</span></span>, or today a semi-peripheral state. But its sheer size, its rapid growth, its currency reserves, its actual and potential markets, etc. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">make it a major power and a potential future counter hegemon</span></span>. India lags behind China, but has similar aspirations. Russia has fallen from great power to semi-peripheral status since the collapse of the Soviet empire, but its energy resources and the technological skills of its people make recovery of its former greatness possible. No one knows exactly what the resurgence of Asia portends for the future. However, just as half a century ago global decolonization was a blow to western domination, so the shift in economic production to Asia will redefine global power relations throughout the 21st century. Classical theory of hegemonic cycle is useful if not articulated in too rigid a form. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Hegemonic systems do not last forever; they do have a life span. The hegemonic state cannot maintain itself as the fastest growing major economy forever and thus eventually will face relative decline against some major power or powers</span></span>. The hegemon faces recurrent challenges both on the periphery and from other major powers who feel constrained by the hegemon’s power or are ambitious to usurp its place. Techniques of the application of military force and ideological control may become more sophisticated over time, but so too do techniques of guerilla warfare and ideological forms of resistance such as religious fundamentalism, nationalism, and politicization of ethnic identity. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">World war may not be imminent, but wars on the periphery have become quite deadly, and the threat of the use of nuclear weapons or other WMD by the rising number of powers who possess them looms</span></span>. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The hegemonic state tends to become overstretched, but more importantly the U.S., because of its messianic sense of mission, tends to overreach. Some of the burden the hegemon has to assume is inevitable, but the U.S. is particularly prone to massive miscalculation.</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The plan’s rejection of COIN creates a shift towards selective engagement that sustains presence globally </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="mso-ansi-font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Gventer, 9</span></span> - Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html]]</span>) </span>

<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">An effort to conduct "counterinsurgency" in Afghanistan is</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> not just a costly business for still-unspecified strategic returns. It </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is likely to</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> also </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">prolong the U.S. defense establishment's preoccupation with military-led nation-building in unfamiliar cultures and perpetuate the deeply problematic assumption that chronic societal failure and social pathologies around the world are a form of warfare.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> This notion is built in part on what seems to be an oversimplified and glamorized—and thus dangerously misleading—pop history about the 'surge' in Iraq and the role it played in the still-unfolding outcomes there. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The opportunity for the new strategy in Afghanistan was to form the beginning of a new era of American restraint in its foreign policy—one based on</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> confidence in America's own values, protection of its borders, strong intelligence capabilities, and </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">selective engagement of a strong, credible U.S. military capable of applying overwhelming force.</span></span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> It will be unfortunate if</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> President<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Obama </span></span>instead <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">persists in </span></span>the false promise of "<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">counterinsurgency</span></span>" theory, which merely courts permanent national insolvency and hastening American decline, expending vast quantities of national blood and treasure to protect nothing but America's own illusions. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">We solve – counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence and ensures consistency </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Stewart, 9</span></span> **<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">- </span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">) </span>

<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The best Afghan policy would be to reduce the number of foreign troops from the current level of 90,000 to far fewer – perhaps 20,000</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. In that case, two distinct objectives would remain for the international community: development and counter-terrorism. Neither would amount to the building of an Afghan state or winning a counter-insurgency campaign. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">A reduction in troop numbers and a turn away from state-building should not mean total withdrawal: good projects could continue to be undertaken in electricity, water, irrigation, health, education, agriculture, rural development</span></span> and in other areas favoured by development agencies. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Even a light US presence could continue to allow for aggressive operations against Al Qaeda terrorists, in Afghanistan</span></span>, who plan to attack the United States. The US has successfully prevent Al Qaeda from re-establishing itself since 2001 (though the result has only been to move bin Laden across the border.). The US military could also (with other forms of assistance) support the Afghan military to prevent the Taliban from seizing a city or taking over the country. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">These twin objectives will require a very long-term presence, as indeed is almost inevitable in a country which is as poor, as fragile and traumatized as Afghanistan (and which lacks the internal capacity at the moment to become independent of Foreign aid or control its territory). But a long-term presence will in turn mean a much lighter and more limited presence (if it is to retain US domestic support). We should not control and cannot predict the future of Afghanistan. It may in the future become more violent, or find a decentralised equilibrium or a new national unity, but if its communities continue to want to work with us, we can, over 30 years, encourage the more positive trends in Afghan society and help to contain the more negative. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Such a policy can seem strained, unrealistic, counter-intuitive and unappealing. They appear to betray the hopes of Afghans who trusted us and to allow the Taliban to abuse district towns. No politician wants to be perceived to have underestimated, or failed to address, a terrorist threat; or to write off the ‘blood and treasure’ that we have sunk into Afghanistan; or to admit defeat. Americans are particularly unwilling to believe that problems are insoluble; Obama’s motto is not ‘no we can’t’; soldiers are not trained to admit defeat or to say a mission is impossible. And to suggest that what worked in Iraq won’t work in Afghanistan requires a detailed knowledge of each country’s past, a bold analysis of the causes of development and a rigorous exposition of the differences, for which few have patience. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The greatest risk of our inflated ambitions </span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">and fears, encapsulated <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in the current surge is that it will achieve the exact opposite of its intentions and in fact precipitate a total withdrawal. The heavier our footprint, and the more costly, the less we are likely to be able to sustain it. Public opinion is already turning against it</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span> Nato allies are mostly staying in Afghanistan simply to please the United States and have little confidence in our objectives or our reasons. Contemporary political culture tends to encourage black and white solutions: either we garrison or we abandon.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> While, I strongly oppose troop increases, I equally strongly oppose a total flight. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">We are currently in danger of lurching from troop increases to withdrawal and from engagement to isolation. We are threatening to provide instant electro-shock therapy followed by abandonment. This is the last thing Afghanistan needs</span></span>. The international community should aim to provide a patient, tolerant long-term relationship with a country as poor and traumatized as Afghanistan. Judging by comparable countries in the developing world (and Afghanistan is very near the bottom of the UN Human Development index), making Afghanistan more stable, prosperous and humane is a project which will take decades. It is a worthwhile project in the long-term for us and for Afghans but <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">we will only be able to sustain our presence if we massively reduce our investment</span></span> and our ambitions and begin to approach Afghanistan more as we do other poor countries in the developing world. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The best way of avoiding the mistakes of the </span></span>1980s and <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">1990s – the familiar cycle of investment and abandonment which most Afghan expect and fear and which have contributed so much to instability and danger - is to</span></span> husband and conserve our resources, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">limit our objectives to counter-terrorism</span></span> and humanitarian assistance and <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">work out how to work with fewer troops</span></span> and less money over a longer period. In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more. </span>


<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Obama will sell the plan as a lighter but permanent commitment– solves confusion over withdrawal deadlines and credibility </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Stewart, 10</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> - </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “</span><span class="sifr-alternate"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3) </span>

<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">But this moderate tone gains Obama the leverage that Bush lacked</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> As long as the <span class="caps">US</span> asserted that Afghanistan was an existential threat, the front line in the war on terror, and that, therefore, failure was not an option, the <span class="caps">US</span> had no leverage over Karzai. The worse Afghanistan behaved—the more drugs it grew and terrorists it fostered—the more money it received. If it sorted out its act, it risked being relegated to a minor charitable recipient like Tajikistan. A senior Afghan official warned me this year “to stop referring to us as a humanitarian crisis: we must be the number one terrorist threat in the world, because if we are not we won’t get any money.” </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">By asserting convincingly that Afghanistan is not the be-all and end-all and that the US could always ultimately withdraw, Obama</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> escapes this codependent trap and </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">regains some leverage over the Afghan government</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. In his politer words: </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">It must be clear that Afghans will have to take responsibility for their security, and that America has no interest in fighting an endless war in Afghanistan. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">But perhaps even more importantly, defining a more moderate and limited strategy gives him leverage over his own generals. By refusing to endorse or use the language of counterinsurgency in the speech, he escapes their doctrinal logic</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. By no longer committing the US to defeating the Taliban or state-building, he dramatically reduces the objectives and the costs of the mission</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. By talking about costs, the fragility of public support, and other priorities, he reminds the generals why this surge must be the last. All of this serves to “cap” the troop increases at current levels and provide the justification for beginning to reduce numbers in 2011. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">But the brilliance of its moderate arguments cannot overcome that statement about withdrawal. With seven words, “our troops will begin to come home,” he loses leverage over the Taliban, as well as leverage he had gained over Karzai and the generals</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. It is a cautious, lawyerly statement, expressed again as “[we will] begin the transfer of our forces out of Afghanistan in July of 2011.” It sets no final exit date or numbers. But the Afghan students who were watching the speech with me ignored these nuances and saw it only as departure. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">This may be fatal for Obama’s ambition to “open the door” to the Taliban. The lighter, more political, and less but still robust militarized presence that his argument implies could facilitate a deal with the Taliban, if it appeared semi-permanent</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> As the President asserted, the Taliban are not that strong. They have nothing like the strength or appeal that they had in 1995. They cannot take the capital, let alone recapture the country. There is strong opposition to their presence, particularly in the center and the north of the country. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Their only hope is to negotiate. But the Taliban need to acknowledge this. And the only way they will is if they believe that we are not going to allow the Kabul government to collapse</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Afghanistan has been above all a project not of force but of patience. It would take decades before Afghanistan achieved the political cohesion, stability, wealth, government structures, or even basic education levels of Pakistan. A political settlement requires a reasonably strong permanent government. The best argument against the surge, therefore, was never that a <span class="caps">US</span> operation without an adequate Afghan government partner would be unable to defeat the Taliban—though it won’t. Nor that the attempt to strengthen the <span class="caps">US</span> campaign will intensify resistance, though it may. Nor because such a deployment of over 100,000 troops at a cost of perhaps $100 billion a year would be completely disproportional to the <span class="caps">US</span>’s limited strategic interests and moral obligation in Afghanistan—though that too is true. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Instead, </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Obama should not have requested more troops because doing so intensifies opposition to the war</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> in the <span class="caps">US</span> and Europe </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and accelerates the pace of withdrawal demanded by political pressures at home. To keep domestic consent for a long engagement we need to limit troop numbers</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> and in particular limit our casualties. The surge is a Mephistophelian bargain, in which the President has gained force but lost time. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">What can now be done to salvage the administration’s position?</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> Obama has acquired leverage over the generals and some support from the public by making it clear that he will not increase troop strength further. He has gained leverage over Karzai by showing that he has options other than investing in Afghanistan. Now <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">he needs to regain leverage over the Taliban by showing them that he is not about to abandon Afghanistan</span></span> and that their best option is to negotiate. In short, he needs to follow his argument for a call strategy to its conclusion. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The date of withdrawal should be recast as a time for reduction to a lighter, more sustainable, and more permanent presence</span></span>. This is what the administration began to do in the days following the speech. As National Security Adviser General James Jones said, “That date is a ‘ramp’ rather than a cliff.” And as Hillary Clinton said in her congressional testimony on December 3, their real aim should be to “develop a long-term sustainable relationship with Afghanistan and Pakistan so that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past, primarily our abandonment of that region.” </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">A more realistic, affordable, and therefore sustainable presence would not make Afghanistan stable or predictable. It would be merely a small if necessary part of an Afghan political strategy. The </span><span class="caps"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-fareast-font-family: Batang;">US</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> and its allies would only moderate, influence, and fund a strategy shaped and led by Afghans themselves. The aim would be to knit together different Afghan interests and allegiances sensitively enough to avoid alienating independent local groups, consistently enough to regain their trust, and robustly enough to restore the security and justice that Afghans demand and deserve from a national government. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">What would this look like in practice? Probably a mess. It might involve a tricky coalition of people we refer to, respectively, as Islamists, progressive civil society, terrorists, warlords, learned technocrats, and village chiefs. Under a notionally democratic constitutional structure, it could be a rickety experiment with systems that might, like Afghanistan’s neighbors, include strong elements of religious or military rule. There is no way to predict what the Taliban might become or what authority a national government in Kabul could regain. Civil war would remain a possibility. But an intelligent, long-term, and tolerant partnership with the United States could reduce the likelihood of civil war and increase the likelihood of a political settlement. This is hardly the stuff of sound bites and political slogans. But it would be better for everyone than boom and bust, surge and flight. With the right patient leadership, a political strategy could leave Afghanistan in twenty years’ time more prosperous, stable, and humane than it is today. That would be excellent for Afghans and good for the world. </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Meanwhile, Obama’s broader strategic argument must not be lost. He has grasped that the foreign policy of the president should not consist in a series of extravagant, brief, Manichaean battles, driven by exaggerated fears, grandiloquent promises, and fragile edifices of doctrine. Instead </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the foreign policy of a great power should be the responsible exercise of limited power and knowledge in concurrent situations of radical uncertainty</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Obama, we may hope, will develop this elusive insight. And then <span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it </span></span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">might become possible to find the right places in which to deploy the wealth, the courage, and the political capital of the U</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">nited </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">tates. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">We might hope in South Asia</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">,</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> for example, </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">for a lighter involvement in Afghanistan but a much greater focus on Kashmir</span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">.1 </span>


<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">CONTENTION 2 IS INSURGENCY </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Counterinsurgency is impossible in Afghanistan, multiple reasons </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Nelson, 9</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">– former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, <span style="color: black;">http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Q1: General McChrystal is expected to request up to 40,000 additional troops and recommend a greater focus on counterinsurgency operations. Is this approach likely to succeed in strengthening the Afghan state, defeating the Taliban, and advancing America’s fight against terrorism?</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">A1:</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Probably not<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. Counterinsurgency doctrine</span></span>, or COIN, has captured the hearts and minds of many in the D.C. policy community. Upon close inspection, however, it becomes clear that COIN, at least <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as applied to Afghanistan, is built on a number of shaky assumptions. Consider:</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-list: l15 level1 lfo22; text-indent: -.25in;"><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">1. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Even if</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> General <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">McChrystal gets all 40,000 troops</span></span> he has requested, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the combined</span></span> International Security Assistance Force <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">(ISAF),</span></span> Operation Enduring Freedom <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">(OEF), and Afghan contingent would still number less than 250,000—far fewer than the 670,000 troops the U.S. Army’s own Counterinsurgency Field Manual suggests is necessary to secure a state of Afghanistan’s size.</span></span></span> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-list: l15 level1 lfo22; text-indent: -.25in;"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">2. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Widespread corruption in the</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> August 20 <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">election has widened the trust gap between the Karzai government and the Afghan people. Because successful counterinsurgency requires a government that is credible and responsive to its citizens, these developments threaten to derail the U.S.</span></span> and NATO <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">mission</span></span>. And as our experience in South Vietnam made painfully clear, the White House is usually powerless to force any host nation to enact good-government reforms. </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-list: l15 level1 lfo22; text-indent: -.25in;"><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">3. </span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">General <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">McChrystal’s strategic review emphasizes “population protection” as the key to drying up support for the Taliban. The claim is based on the assumption that insurgencies require the backing</span></span>, or at least acquiescence, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">of surrounding communities</span></span> in order to function. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">But</span></span> a recent article in the //Washington Post// noted that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the Taliban rely primarily on foreign, rather than local, funding sources, a fact that suggests that population protection may ultimately do little to diminish the insurgency’s strength.</span></span></span> </span>
<span style="margin-left: .5in; mso-list: l15 level1 lfo22; text-indent: -.25in;"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">4. </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Public support for a counterinsurgency campaign of such massive proportions simply does not exist</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> Recent polls suggest that over 50 percent of Americans are against sending more troops to Afghanistan. And our European allies are even less enthusiastic about escalating the war. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">Finally, the COIN framework is built on the larger assumption that eliminating the Taliban and stabilizing Afghanistan is the best use of American resources in the broader effort to combat terrorism. Al Qaeda’s presence in a pre-9/11, Taliban-controlled Afghanistan has convinced many officials that a Taliban takeover would result in al Qaeda’s inevitable return to the state. But al Qaeda already has established itself in Pakistan’s semi-governed spaces. Along with Taliban and other extremist militants, the group enjoys the relative safety of these territories, where Pakistani sovereignty precludes any substantive U.S. ground force. Even if al Qaeda were to reenter Afghanistan sometime in the future, the United States would face the same basic terrorist threats that it does today. Critics will argue that Afghanistan served as a base and planning center for 9/11. True enough; but al Qaeda, in establishing a presence in Pakistan, Somalia, and Yemen has already developed numerous “safe havens.”</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> In short, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">our overwhelming focus on Afghanistan fails to serve a more nuanced counterterrorism strategy that acknowledges the many other areas in which al Qaeda operates</span></span>. <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Q2: So how should the United States approach the war?</span> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">A2:</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> We need to reframe our thinking about U.S. goals and the means to achieve them. As outlined above, COIN in Afghanistan is only tenuously linked to counterterrorism, the original purpose of our efforts. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Obama administration should implement a more minimalist policy in the region, one that employs special operations forces and airstrikes to directly target terrorists, especially leaders of cells.</span></span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Critics charge that these operations are mere tactical successes, detached from any larger strategy. This is a disingenuous assessment. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Targeted strikes do, in fact, serve the greater strategic purpose of disrupting the planning and execution of terrorist attacks. Unlike COIN—which seems to harbor the grandiose notion of eliminating terrorism by transforming societies</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">,</span></span> regardless of cost—<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">counterterrorism acknowledges that radicalism will always exist and that policymakers should directly seek to contain it.</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">At the core of this shift is an acknowledgment that our best Afghanistan policy is no better than our best Pakistan policy. ISAF and Afghan forces can do everything imaginable to eliminate Taliban influence in the country, but any effort that does not address the presence of militants in Pakistan’s semi-governed spaces ultimately does little to reduce the threat posed by al Qaeda. At a most basic level, the Obama administration must change the calculus of the Pakistani military and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) with regard to extremists in the country’s northwest. Doing so will force the United States to play a central role in rapprochement between Pakistan and India—and be a fair broker to both parties. What about Afghanistan? Proponents of an “all-in” approach tend to misrepresent a minimalist strategy as complete withdrawal, arguing that the United States abandoned Afghanistan after the Soviet war and that doing so again would plunge the country into anarchy. But few serious analysts are talking about abandoning Afghanistan, and there is no reason to believe that a smaller, more specialized force would not be able to confront any resumption of al Qaeda activity in the country</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">As far as the Taliban are concerned, there is reason to believe that an ever-larger foreign troop presence simply swells the movement’s ranks</span></span> (to wit<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">: it has been dismaying to watch increased troop levels correlate with recent Taliban gains).</span></span> Until the administration can convincingly demonstrate how additional troops will, in fact, support broader national security and counterterrorism goals, the United States is better served by a strategy that minimizes the loss of life and dizzying levels of expenditure that any “all-in” approach would entail. </span>




<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">It’s unwinnable – large footprints drive the Pashtuns to the Taliban </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Fuller, 9</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">– CIA officer for 25 years, former CIA station chief in Kabul and a former vice-chair of the CIA's National Intelligence Council (Graham, Christian Science Monitor, 12/2, "Obama speech: kicking the can down the road in Afghanistan", lexis) </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The "objective" situation in <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Afghanistan remains a mess. </span></span>The details are well known. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Senior commanders acknowledge that we are not now winning hearts and minds in Afghanistan; indeed, we never can, and certainly not at gunpoint.</span></span></span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Most Pashtuns will never accept a US plan for Afghanistan's future. The non-Pashtuns</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">- Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras, etc. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">- naturally welcome any outside support in what is a virtual civil war. America has inadvertently ended up choosing sides. US forces are perceived by large numbers of Afghans as an occupying army inflicting large civilian casualties</span></span>. The struggle has now leaked into Pakistan - with even higher stakes. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Obama's policies would seem an unsatisfying compromise among contending arguments. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Thirty thousand more troops will not turn the tide; arguably they present more American targets for attack. They will heighten traditional xenophobia against foreigners traipsing through Pashtun villages and homes. It is a fool's errand to persuade the locals in Pashtun territory that the Taliban are the enemy and the US is their friend</span></span>. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Whatever mixed feelings Pashtuns have toward the Taliban, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">they know the Taliban remain the single most important element of Pashtun political life; the Taliban will be among them long after Washington tires of this mission</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The strategy of the Bush era envisioned Afghanistan as a vital imperial outpost in a post-Soviet dream world where hundreds of overseas US bases would cement US global hegemony, keeping Russia and China in check and the US on top. That world vision is gone - except to a few Washington diehards who haven't grasped the new emerging global architectures of power, economics, prestige, and influence. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Taliban will inevitably figure significantly in the governance of almost any future Afghanistan, like it or not. Future Taliban leaders, once rid of foreign occupation, will have little incentive to support global jihadi schemes - they never really have by choice. The Taliban inherited bin Laden as a poison pill from the past when they came to power in 1996 and have learned a bitter lesson about what it means to lend state support to a prominent terrorist group.</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The Taliban with a voice in power will have every incentive to welcome foreign money and expertise into the country, including the Pashtun regions - as long as it is not part of a Western strategic package. An austere Islamic regime is not the ideal outcome for Afghanistan, but it is by far the most realistic. To reverse ground realities and achieve a markedly different outcome is not in the cards and will pose the same dilemma to Obama next year. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Meanwhile<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, Pakistan will never be willing or able to solve Washington's Afghanistan dilemma. Pakistan's own stability has been brought to the very brink by US demands that it solve America's self-created problem in Afghanistan. Pakistan will eventually be forced to resolve Afghanistan itself - but only after the US has gone,</span></span> and only by making a pact with Taliban forces both inside Afghanistan and in Pakistan itself. Washington will not accept that for now, but it will ultimately be forced to fairly soon. Maybe the Pakistanis can root out bin Laden, but meanwhile, Al Qaeda has extended its autonomous franchises around the world, and terrorists can train and plan almost anywhere in the world; they do not need Afghanistan. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">By now, as in so many other elements of the Global War on Terror, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the US has become more part of the problem than part of the solution. We are sending troops to defend troops that themselves constitute an affront to Afghan nationalism. Only expeditious American withdrawal from Afghanistan will prevent exacerbation of the problem. </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Taliban can recruit faster than we kill—large footprint with an illegitimate government ensures this </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Galston, 10</span></span><span class="cite"> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">- </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings</span> </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">(William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx) </span>

<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Are the basic premises of our current policy in Afghanistan fatally flawed?</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The fact that I feel compelled to pose <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this question</span></span> so soon after the completion of President Obama’s painstaking review <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">reflects the mounting evidence that the results of that policy have fallen far short of expectations.</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Let’s begin at the beginning, with Marja. The holy trinity of modern counterinsurgency is clear, hold, and build. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Coalition forces are stalled</span></span> at step one. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">After the initial military thrust, many Taliban fighters</span></span>, including mid-level commanders<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, swooped back in to the area to intimidate local inhabitants </span></span>who might otherwise be inclined to cooperate with the coalition and Afghan government. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Many other Afghanis sympathize with the core Taliban message that we intend to occupy their country for the long-term with the aim of imposing alien cultural, religious, and political values. It is hard to see what will tip this stalemate in our favor,</span></span> even harder to see how we can hand over governance and security function to the Afghans in Marja any time soon. Brigadier General Frederick Hodges, one of the leading commanders in southern Afghanistan, puts it this way: “You’ve got to have the governance part ready to go. We talked about doing that in Marja but didn’t realize how hard it was to do. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Ultimately, it’s up to the Afghans to step forward.” It’s clear that Hodges is not holding his breath. The</span></span> next shoe to drop was <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Kandahar</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span> Ever since this Taliban stronghold was identified as a key target, the tension between the U.S. and Afghan governments on this issue has been palpable—so much so that the coalition is now hesitant to call what it has in mind an “offensive.” Just last week, we learned that the <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">operation scheduled to begin in the spring would fall even farther behind schedule</span></span>. As The New York Times reports, “<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Afghan government has not produced the civilian leadership and trained security forces it was to contribute to the effort</span></span>, U.S. officials said, and <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the support from Kandaharis that the United States was counting on Karzai to deliver has not materialized</span></span>.” Stanley McChrystal, the top commander in Afghanistan, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">has been admirably frank about a core difficulty: the residents of Kandahar are far from sure that they want the protection we claim to be offering them</span></span>. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">On to Kabul, where President <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Karzai has reportedly lost faith in the coalition’s ability (and that of his own government) to defeat the Taliban and is secretly maneuvering to strike a separate deal with them</span></span>. If these reports are correct—and Susan Rice, our UN ambassador, disputed them on Sunday (though, notably, she offered no new evidence in support of her assertion that Karzai remains a committed partner)—two events appear to be fueling his growing disenchantment: senior American officials’ claims that his reelection lacked legitimacy, and President Obama’s December announcement that he intended to begin reducing the number of American troops by July 2011. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">One might be tempted to chalk up the extent of our difficulties in Afghanistan to tendentious reporting. I was skeptical myself—that is, until I stumbled across a stunning NATO/ISAF report completed in March. This report summarizes the results of an in-depth survey conducted in nine of the 16 districts in Kandahar Province to which researchers could safely gain access. Here are some of the findings: </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Security is viewed everywhere as a major problem. When asked to name the top dangers experienced while traveling on the roads, far more respondents named Afghan National Army and Police checkpoints than roadside bombs, Taliban checkpoints, or criminals. And the Taliban were rated better than ISAF convoys and checkpoints as well</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Corruption is viewed as a widespread problem and is experienced by respondents on a regular basis. In fact, 84 percent say that corruption is the main reason for the current conflict. Corruption erodes confidence in the Afghan government, and fully two-thirds of respondents believe that this corruption forces them to seek alternatives to government services and authority. Chillingly, 53 percent regard the Taliban as “incorruptible.” </span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">residents</span></span> of Kandahar <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">overwhelmingly prefer a process of reconciliation to the prospect of continued conflict. Ninety-four percent say that it is better to negotiate with the Taliban than to fight with them</span></span>, and they see grounds for believing that these negotiations will succeed. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Eighty-five percent regard the Taliban as “our Afghan brothers</span></span>” (a phrase President Karzai repeated word for word in his address to the recent jirga), and 81 percent say that the Taliban would lay down their arms if given jobs. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Our military commanders in Afghanistan talk incessantly about the need to “shape” the political context in a given area before beginning activities with a significant military component—but if their own research is correct, our chances of “shaping” Kandahar any time soon range from slim to none. Based on General McChrystal’s own logic, then, we cannot proceed there because a key requirement for success is not fulfilled. And if we can’t prevail in Kandahar, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">then we’re stuck with the Taliban as a long-term military presence and political force in Afghanistan. </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The first impact is Pakistan. Counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents across the border and will collapse Pakistan </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Akhtar, 10</span></span><span class="Underline0">**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">-</span>**</span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1**</span>**)**</span> 

**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If it is a war against extremists and militancy inside Pakistan, it is a civil war because its origins stem from the US, NATO occupation of neighboring Afghanistan. The conflict should be seen as an extension of the ongoing resistance of the Afghan people to alien domination</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. It is inaccurate to say that the US invaded Afghanistan because of the 9/11 attacks by Al-Qaeda. Former BBC correspondent George Arney reported on September 18, 2001, that Niaz Naik, the former Pakistani foreign secretary, had told him that he was informed by US officials at a UN-sponsored international contact group on Afghanistan in Berlin during July that year that unless Osama bin Laden were handed over swiftly, America would take military action to kill or capture both Bin Laden and Mullah Omar. The wider objective, however, was to topple the Taliban regime and install a transitional government under King Mohammad Zahir Shah. The invasion was to take place in mid-October 2001. Mr. Naik went on to say that he doubted that the US would have abandoned its plan to invade Afghanistan even if Osama were handed over by the Taliban. Arney's story is corroborated by the Guardian correspondent David Leigh in his report published on September 26, 2001, in which he revealed that the Taliban had received specific warning by the US through secret diplomacy in Berlin in July that the Bush Administration would topple the entire regime militarily unless Osama is extradited to the US. This was part of the larger design of US military, industrial complex to bring about regime change in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Iran. As the US needed bases in Pakistan to accomplish its pre-planned invasion of Afghanistan, the Bush Administration sought to use Islamabad as a cat's paw to pull the chestnuts out of the fire. Fortunately for President Bush, a usurper ruled there, devoid of all legitimacy, legal and moral, and he readily and willingly succumbed to US pressure and made a U-turn by severing all links with the Taliban. He even joined the war against Afghanistan instead of using his leverage with the Taliban to exhaust all means of peaceful settlement of the dispute. The entire region, including Pakistan, was declared a war zone by the US military command, and the flights of all passenger planes were prohibited over a certain altitude, while no merchant ships could enter the harbors of Pakistan, thus bringing maritime trade (which comprises approximately 95 percent of Pakistan's import-export trade) to a standstill. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It is no wonder that Pakistan suffered a loss of 34 billion dollars because of its involvement in the Afghan war.</span></span> <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">America's War</span> As one can see<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, it was America's war that was imposed upon Pakistan</span></span>. Whether Pakistan could have avoided the war is a matter of controversy among politicians and political observers. But <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the war has fuelled insurgency in Pakistan's hitherto peaceful tribal territory adjacent to Afghanistan. This insurgency shows no sign of abatement</span></span>, as terrorist attacks on military and civilian centers in the capital and major cities of the North-West Frontier Province and Punjab continue with a vengeance, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">posing threat to the security of the state.</span></span> In the meantime, routine predator strikes by the US in Waziristan have taken a heavy toll of civilian lives amid accusations of Islamabad's complicity in the piratical attacks on tribespeople, which prompts them to resort to retaliatory strikes on the perpetrators. Not satisfied with Pakistan's military operations in the tribal region, the US Administration has compelled Islamabad's fragile government to pull out its troops from the tense Indo-Pak border and deploy them in the restive tribal belt along the Pak-Afghan border. Now <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pakistan faces existential threat from the Taliban</span></span> and not India, a perception <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">which the country's military leadership is not prepared to share, </span></span>given the unresolved disputes with New Delhi, which triggered four wars during the last 62 years. At the same time, speculation (not entirely unfounded) is rife about the involvement of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and the former Blackwater (now christened Xe Services) in murder, mayhem, and gunrunning as evidenced by the armed Americans who drive consulate vehicles through cities and, when intercepted, refuse to disclose their identity. It is here that one recalls with dismay the role of General Stanley McChrystal, who until last year headed the Joint Special Operations Command, which runs drone attacks and targeted assassinations with the assistance of the operatives of the former Blackwater. This was revealed by Jeremy Scahill's investigative report published in the US weekly the Nation. That may, perhaps, solve the mystery surrounding a series of assassinations of ulama belonging to various Islamic movements. The sinister motive behind such acts of terror is to incite sectarian violence in Pakistan and lay the blame at the doors of religious extremists. Similar death squads were organized by the CIA in El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua to carry out political assassinations of nationalists who were opposed to US intervention. At the time, the Sandinista government of Nicaragua complained to the International Court of Justice about the mining of Nicaraguan ports, the violation of the country's airspace, the killing and kidnapping of individuals on the Nicaraguan territory, and the threat or use of force by the US. The court in its decision in June 1986 held that the US was in breach of the customary rules of international law and international humanitarian law. The above case is titled the "Military and Paramilitary Activities in and Against Nicaragua." The precedent set by this case may be invoked by Pakistan to prevent the US drone attacks on its territory. Once the piratical attacks of the US have stopped, the irritant in the tribal insurgency would have gone, paving the way for pacification of the conflict. If this were Pakistan's war, the government would have exercised its own judgment in dealing with the militants at home, either by conciliation or by resort to force. But Islamabad's so-called operation against militants is subordinated to US military designs in the region, aimed at the encirclement of the People's Republic of China and the control of the transit of gas pipelines from Central Asia to South Asia. It is not aimless that China expressed its concern over the concentration of US, NATO troops in the region. India fits in the American scheme of things, hence the US-India nuclear deal. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Pakistan's National Interest</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">In this emerging security environment, Pakistan will have to be content with its role as a junior partner of India. Therefore, the sooner Islamabad extricates itself from the US "war on terror," the better it is for its security and independence.</span></span> Doesn't Islamabad realize that its military operation against the militants would leave its border with India vulnerable to a New Delhi offensive? If Pakistan permits the US to attack the suspected training centers of militants on its territory, will it be able to prevent India from doing so? With Islamabad embroiled in internecine strife, it cannot negotiate with India from a position of strength. It may be forced to make a compromise that might be detrimental to its national interest. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pakistan's preoccupation with tribal rebellion would not permit it to deal with separatist ethnic forces in Baluchistan. Undoubtedly, this is a threat to the territorial integrity of Pakistan.</span></span> After the total failure of the military operation in Baluchistan, the federal government has come round to the painful conclusion that political and not military action can bring militancy to an end. Granting general amnesty to the dissidents and engaging them in a meaningful dialogue on contentious issues is a laudable initiative. The same gesture should be made to the militants in the tribal areas. But Islamabad has adopted double standards in dealing with the Baluchistan militants and the Pashtun militants, as if there were good militants and bad ones. This discriminatory policy would intensify the Pashtun insurgency and might drive them toward even more escalation. The rulers have seen the consequences of military operations in the former East Pakistan, Baluchistan, Karachi, Sind, and FATA (federally administered tribal areas). If anything, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the situation has only worsened. The surge of US troops, the expansion of war beyond the borders of Afghanistan, and the attacks on Quetta and Muridke as envisaged by Obama's new strategy would mean that US troops are at war with the people of Pakistan</span></span>. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Any Solution?</span>** 
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Obama Administration would be better advised to concentrate on its exit strategy, </span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">and to that end, it is imperative that it involve the UN in its peace-making efforts aimed at the establishment of a broad-based government in Afghanistan, because the Karzai Government has no legitimacy. To fill the vacuum, the UN peacekeeping force, made up of troops of states not involved in the Afghan war, may be deployed until a government of national unity is able to assume full responsibility. Here the US can contribute to the postwar reconstruction of Afghanistan under the aegis of the UN. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The insurgency in the tribal region is the spillover effect of US military occupation of Afghanistan, but Pakistan faces a far greater threat: the threat of ethnic violence as manifested in the bloody clashes among various linguistic groups in urban and rural Sind. These have been overshadowed by the counterinsurgency operations in FATA, but they may erupt at any moment, thus destabilizing the state</span></span>. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Pakistan escalates to great power nuclear war </span>**
**<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pitt, 9</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">-</span> //<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">) </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep filled with troops today, killing five and wounding as many as 21, including several children who were waiting for a ride to school. Residents of the region where the attack took place are fleeing in terror as gunfire rings out around them, and government forces have been unable to quell the violence. Two regional government officials were beheaded by militants in retaliation for the killing of other militants by government forces. As familiar as this sounds, it did not take place where we have come to expect such terrible events. This, unfortunately, is a whole new ballgame. It is part of another conflict that is brewing, one which puts what is happening in Iraq and Afghanistan in deep shade, and which represents a grave and growing threat to us all<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. Pakistan is now trembling on the edge of violent chaos</span></span>, and is doing so <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">with nuclear weapons</span></span> in its hip pocket, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">right in the middle of one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the world</span></span>. The situation in brief: Pakistan for years has been a nation in turmoil, run by a shaky government supported by a corrupted system, dominated by a blatantly criminal security service, and threatened by a large fundamentalist Islamic population with deep ties to the Taliban in Afghanistan. All this is piled atop an ongoing standoff with neighboring India that has been the center of political gravity in the region for more than half a century. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The fact that Pakistan, and India, and Russia, and China all possess nuclear weapons and share the same space means any ongoing or escalating violence over there has the real potential to crack open the very gates of Hell itself.</span></span></span>** 
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Recently, the Taliban made a military push into the northwest Pakistani region around the Swat Valley</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. According to a recent Reuters report: The (Pakistani) army deployed troops in Swat in October 2007 and used artillery and gunship helicopters to reassert control. But insecurity mounted after a civilian government came to power last year and tried to reach a negotiated settlement. A peace accord fell apart in May 2008. After that, hundreds — including soldiers, militants and civilians — died in battles. Militants unleashed a reign of terror, killing and beheading politicians, singers, soldiers and opponents. They banned female education and destroyed nearly 200 girls' schools. About 1,200 people were killed since late 2007 and 250,000 to 500,000 fled, leaving the militants in virtual control. Pakistan offered on February 16 to introduce Islamic law in the Swat valley and neighboring areas in a bid to take the steam out of the insurgency. The militants announced an indefinite cease-fire after the army said it was halting operations in the region. President Asif Ali Zardari signed a regulation imposing sharia in the area last month. But the Taliban refused to give up their guns and pushed into Buner and another district adjacent to Swat, intent on spreading their rule. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The United States, already embroiled in a war against Taliban forces in Afghanistan, must now face the possibility that Pakistan could collapse under the mounting threat of Taliban forces there</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 7.0pt;">. Military and diplomatic advisers to President Obama, uncertain how best to proceed, now face one of the great nightmare scenarios of our time. "Recent militant gains in Pakistan," reported The New York Times on Monday, "have so alarmed the White House that the national security adviser, Gen. James L. Jones, described the situation as 'one of the very most serious problems we face.'" "Security was deteriorating rapidly," reported The Washington Post on Monday, "particularly in the mountains along the Afghan border that harbor al-Qaeda and the Taliban, intelligence chiefs reported, and there were signs that those groups were working with indigenous extremists in Pakistan's populous Punjabi heartland. The Pakistani government was mired in political bickering. The army, still fixated on its historical adversary India, remained ill-equipped and unwilling to throw its full weight into the counterinsurgency fight. But despite the threat the intelligence conveyed, Obama has only limited options for dealing with it. Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is high, and a U.S. combat presence is prohibited. The United States is fighting Pakistan-based extremists by proxy, through an army over which it has little control, in alliance with a government in which it has little confidence." It is believed</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pakistan is currently in possession of between 60 and 100 nuclear weapons.</span></span> Because Pakistan's stability is threatened by the wide swath of its population that shares ethnic, cultural and religious connections to the fundamentalist Islamic populace of Afghanistan, fears over what could happen to those nuclear weapons if the Pakistani government collapses are very real. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">"As the insurgency of the Taliban and Al Qaeda spreads in Pakistan," reported the Times last week, "senior American officials say they are increasingly concerned about new vulnerabilities for Pakistan's nuclear arsenal, including the potential for militants to snatch a weapon in transport or to insert sympathizers into laboratories or fuel-production facilities</span></span>. </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 8.0pt;">In public, the administration has only hinted at those concerns, repeating the formulation that the Bush administration used: that it has faith in the Pakistani Army. But that cooperation, according to officials who would not speak for attribution because of the sensitivity surrounding the exchanges between Washington and Islamabad, has been sharply limited when the subject has turned to the vulnerabilities in the Pakistani nuclear infrastructure." "The prospect of turmoil in Pakistan sends shivers up the spines of those U.S. officials charged with keeping tabs on foreign nuclear weapons," reported Time Magazine last month. "Pakistan is thought to possess about 100 — the U.S. isn't sure of the total, and may not know where all of them are. Still, if Pakistan collapses, the U.S. military is primed to enter the country and secure as many of those weapons as it can, according to U.S. officials. Pakistani officials insist their personnel safeguards are stringent, but a sleeper cell could cause big trouble, U.S. officials say." In other words, a shaky Pakistan spells trouble for everyone, especially if America loses the footrace to secure those weapons in the event of the worst-case scenario</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If Pakistani militants ever succeed in toppling the government,</span></span> several very dangerous events could happen at once. Nuclear-armed <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">India could be galvanized into military action</span></span> of some kind, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">as could</span></span> nuclear-armed <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">China or</span></span> nuclear-armed <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Russia</span></span>. If the Pakistani government does fall, and all those Pakistani nukes are not immediately accounted for and secured, the specter (or reality) of <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">loose nukes falling into the hands of terrorist organizations could place the entire world on a collision course with unimaginable disaster.</span></span> We have all been paying a great deal of attention to Iraq and Afghanistan, and rightly so. The developing situation in Pakistan, however, needs to be placed immediately on the front burner. The Obama administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all. </span>**

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

**<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Arial; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The Second Impact is Terrorism – it’s inevitable in the status quo and </span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">causes extinction </span>**

**<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">MacQuarrie, 10</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;"> – staff writer, Boston Globe (Brian, “Clear and present nuclear threats,” Boston Globe, 7/25,</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.boston.com/ae/movies/articles/2010/07/25/countdown_to_zero_examines_two_dangers_nuclear_threats_and_public_complacency/?page=1]]</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">) </span>**
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">“The likelihood of a single nuclear bomb exploding in a single city somewhere, maybe even Boston, has increased</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">,<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">’’ said</span></span> Graham <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Allison, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. </span></span>Allison is one of several talking heads featured in the documentary. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The technology is spreading, terrorists have an appetite for the arms, and the security of nuclear bombs, particularly in Pakistan</span></span> and the countries of the former Soviet Union, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is a constant worry for</span></span> US and allied defense officials. But to people worried more about mortgage payments than nuclear holocaust, the danger can seem as dated as fallout shelters and “Dr. Strangelove.’’ Because of that sense of complacency, an area network of clergy, academics, and scientists is spreading the word that this issue must not be overlooked. “Nuclear weapons were so much the story line of the Cold War,’’ said Allison, who served as assistant defense secretary under President Clinton and a special defense adviser under President Reagan. “If you’re only following the headlines — ‘The Cold War’s Over’ — it must have gone away.’’ Instead, Allison said, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">an apocalyptic danger is clear and present. “The objective of Al Qaeda is to ‘kill 4 million Americans</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, </span></span>including 2 million children,’ ’’ Allison says during the 90-minute film. “You’re not going to get to kill 4 million people by hijacking airplanes and crashing them into buildings.’’ <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The quickest way to reach that goal is through the cataclysm of a nuclear explosion, which</span></span> Valerie Plame Wilson, the former CIA officer whose identity was leaked by aides under President George W. Bush, said <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Al Qaeda is eager to accomplish. “Al Qaeda is determined to acquire nuclear weapons and to use them if they get them</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">,’’ </span></span>Wilson says in the film. “In the early ’90s, they tried to buy highly enriched uranium in the Sudan. They got scammed. Just prior to the 9/11 attacks, we do know that Osama bin Laden and his lieutenant, Zawahiri, sat down with two Pakistani nuclear scientists and discussed nuclear weapons.’’ “Countdown to Zero’’ was produced by Lawrence Bender, who brought the issue of global warming to a mass audience through “An Inconvenient Truth,’’ the Academy Award-winning documentary. In Allison’s view, nuclear proliferation is a much more immediate danger. In addition to showing the history of the atomic bomb, the film includes interviews of world figures such as Mikhail Gorbachev, Tony Blair, and Pervez Musharraf; nuclear scientists; and intelligence officials such as former CIA operative Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, a current fellow at the Belfer Center. “Countdown to Zero’’ includes the troubling and well-known development of Iran’s nuclear program, but its writer and director, Lucy Walker, also chronicles little-publicized thefts of enriched uranium that show this fear has been more reality than rumor. As Mowatt-Larssen says in the film: “<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There are three ways to acquire a nuclear weapon: You can steal a bomb. You can buy a bomb. And you can build a bomb.’’</span></span> Walker shows that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">all three options are very much in play</span></span>. According to Dr. Ira Helfand of Northampton, former president of Physicians for Social Responsibility, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">even a relatively small nuclear exchange</span></span> between, for example, India and Pakistan <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would have serious global repercussions</span></span>. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Temperatures across the planet would drop about 1.3 degrees centigrade</span></span>, Helfand said<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, and lead to mass starvation. In a large-scale nuclear war, temperatures would drop 8 to 10 degrees centigrade, agriculture would be devastated, and</span></span> “the likelihood is that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the entire human race would starve to death,’</span></span>’ </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 6.0pt;">Helfand said during a panel discussion after a recent screening at the Coolidge Corner Theatre in Brookline. “Countdown to Zero,’’ developed by Participant Media in conjunction with the World Security Institute and Magnolia Pictures, has been shown at the Cannes and Sundance film festivals. However, the sparse turnout at the Brookline screening underscored the difficulties that the documentary faces in attracting a large, paying audience. “We have kind of an issue fatigue that all of us understandably experience,’’ said the Rev. Jim Antal, president of the Massachusetts Conference of the United Church of Christ, who also spoke after the screening. To help counter that fatigue, Antal plans to send an alert to all of the 400 churches and clergy in his jurisdiction. “This problem has not gone away,’’ Antal said. The issue of complacency or unawareness might be even more acute among younger people who have no recollection of the Cold War and its hair-trigger threat of nuclear annihilation. Ryan Scott McDonnell, executive director of the Boston Faith & Justice Network, said the group will be encouraging its 5,000 young men and women to watch the film. “This is a first step to convince people that this is an issue that you at least need to learn about even before you care about it,’’ McDonnell said. “But that’s just the starting point.’’ Despite the seemingly increasing nuclear threat posed by terrorists and rogue organizations, some activists see more opportunities for large-scale disarmament. The United States and Russia already have dramatically reduced their nuclear arsenals, and Presidents Obama and Dmitry Medvedev have pledged to eliminate even more weapons. The Nobel Peace Prize committee made Obama its 2009 recipient partly because of his support for universal nuclear disarmament. And that effort, by the leader of one of the world’s two nuclear giants, is an important reason for hope, Antal said. “This is an unprecedented opportunity for humanity to put the genie back in the bottle,’’ Antal said. “To have a person of Obama’s values in his position, and his relations with the Russians, I just think this is something that can give the world hope.’’ Time, however, might be running short. Allison said that while the threat of all-out nuclear war has declined</span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, the rise of terrorism continues to make the intersection of motive and materials a wildly unpredictable one</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Indeed, Allison said in a phone interview, the findings of a congressionally appointed committee on weapons of mass destruction and terrorism underscored the dangers. Allison, who was a member of that committee, recounted its conclusions from 2008. “We said that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">unless there’s some significant, change</span></span> from the current trend lines, we believed <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it was more likely than not that there would be a successful nuclear or biological attack somewhere in the world before the end of 2013</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">,</span></span>’’ Allison said. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Anti Americanism from occupation is the greatest link to global terrorism </span>**
**<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Pena, 9</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">- Senior Fellow, The Independent Institute (December 9, Charles, <span class="hdr">“Can the U.S. Withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq?</span>” http://www.independent.org/events/transcript.asp?eventID=145 ) </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Here are the issues. Number one, both Peter and Ivan have talked about this, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the Taliban is not monolithic. We here in the United States tend to equate the Taliban with Al Qaeda. They’re not one and the same. There are elements of the Taliban that would support Al Qaeda in wanting to attack the United States. There are other elements of the Taliban that are just interested in having a say in the government in Afghanistan. We’ve got to stop treating them monolithically as a single threat as if somehow they are a threat to the United States of America proper. They’re not</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span> We have to be willing to live with less than perfect in terms of what happens in Afghanistan, and I also think that we have to be willing to concede at this point that what’s left of Al Qaeda, whether they’re operating out of Pakistan or coming across the boarder periodically into Afghanistan. And by the way I saw a news report that supposedly even Bin Laden—assuming he’s still alive—finds his way across the border into Afghanistan periodically. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Al Qaeda isn’t the same Al Qaeda that existed, that attacked us on 9/11, and Bin Laden in particular does not have operational control over a group that has global reach that can attack the United States</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span></span>Our larger problem is not Osama Bin Laden and what is left of Al Qaeda hiding out in Pakistan<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. Our larger problem is the ideology of radical Islam, which has seeped into the Muslim world in part because we’ve helped propagate that by our actions in places</span></span> like Iraq and Afghanistan<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. I would argue that whatever benefit there might be to getting Bin Laden at this point, and believe me I would love to be able to say that we got Osama Bin Laden, but strategically the costs required to try and get Bin Laden and contain Al Qaeda far outweigh any residual benefit at this stage</span></span>. Bin Laden and the people surrounding him no longer represent operationally the real threat to the United States. <span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">real threat is sort of everywhere within the Muslim world being fueled by ideology and anti-American sentiment</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span> So <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">this notion of denying Al Qaeda safe haven in Afghanistan, I think, is a pie-in-the-sky notion. Al Qaeda—there will be some safe havens</span></span>. Why? Because there will always be people who have sympathies and decide they want to support groups like Al Qaeda. The question is, are they local threats or global threats? As long as they are local threats, then those are threats that the Afghan government has to deal with and ones that we may have to live with—again, less than perfect<span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It’s the global threat that Al Qaeda may represent that we have to worry about. I think we have to worry about that less now than we did eight years ago. I think we have to worry more that we are radicalizing Muslims around the world</span></span>, as witnessed by the bombings in Madrid and London in particular. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Our very presence</span></span> in two Muslim countries at the moment, Iraq and Afghanistan, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">goes a long, long way to fueling that radicalism that it’s U.S. occupation that makes us a target</span></span>. There may be a certain amount of anti-Western, anti-U.S. elements in radical Islamic ideology, but <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">most of that is because we’re there in their territories, not necessarily that they want to come after the United States in the U.S.</span></span></span>** 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Nuclear terrorism is an existential threat—it escalates to nuclear war with Russia and China.</span>** 
**<span style="line-height: 10.2pt; margin-bottom: 6.0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Robert </span><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Ayson</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 7.0pt;">,</span> </span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington</span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">, <span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">20</span></span>**<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">10 </span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">(“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” //Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld) </span>**
**<span style="-webkit-background-clip: initial; -webkit-background-origin: initial; background-attachment: initial; background-color: #f4f5f7; background-image: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 10.2pt; margin-bottom: 6pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by the country attacked in the first place, would not necessarily represent the worst of the nuclear worlds imaginable. Indeed, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">there are reasons to wonder whether nuclear terrorism should ever be regarded as belonging in the category of truly existential threats. A contrast can be drawn here with the global catastrophe that would come from a massive nuclear exchange</span></span> between two or more of the sovereign states that possess these weapons in significant numbers. Even the worst terrorism that the twenty-first century might bring would fade into insignificance alongside considerations of what a general nuclear war would have wrought in the Cold War period. And it must be admitted that as long as the major nuclear weapons states have hundreds and even thousands of nuclear weapons at their disposal, there is always the possibility of a truly awful nuclear exchange taking place precipitated entirely by state possessors themselves. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">But these two nuclear worlds</span></span>—<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">a non-state actor nuclear attack and a catastrophic interstate nuclear exchange</span></span>—<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">are not necessarily separable</span></span>. It is just possible that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">some sort of terrorist attack</span></span>, and especially an act of nuclear terrorism, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">could precipitate a chain of events leading to a massive exchange of nuclear weapons</span></span> between two or more of the states that possess them. In this context, today’s and tomorrow’s terrorist groups might assume the place allotted during the early Cold War years to new state possessors of small nuclear arsenals who were seen as raising the risks of a catalytic nuclear war between the superpowers started by third parties. These risks were considered in the late 1950s and early 1960s as concerns grew about nuclear proliferation, the so-called n+1 problem. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">It may require a considerable amount of imagination to depict an especially plausible situation where an act of nuclear terrorism could lead to such a massive inter-state nuclear war</span></span>. For example, in the event of a terrorist nuclear attack on the United States, it might well be wondered just how Russia and/or China could plausibly be brought into the picture, not least because they seem unlikely to be fingered as the most obvious state sponsors or encouragers of terrorist groups. They would seem far too responsible to be involved in supporting that sort of terrorist behavior that could just as easily threaten them as well. Some possibilities, however remote, do suggest themselves. For example, how might the United States react if it was thought or discovered that the fissile material used in the act of nuclear terrorism had come from Russian stocks,40 and if for some reason Moscow denied any responsibility for nuclear laxity? The correct attribution of that nuclear material to a particular country might not be a case of science fiction given the observation by Michael May et al. that while the debris resulting from a nuclear explosion would be “spread over a wide area in tiny fragments, its radioactivity makes it detectable, identifiable and collectable, and a wealth of information can be obtained from its analysis: the efficiency of the explosion, the materials used and, most important … some indication of where the nuclear material came from.”41 Alternatively, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">if the act of nuclear terrorism came as a complete surprise,</span></span> and American officials refused to believe that a terrorist group was fully responsible (or responsible at all) <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">suspicion would shift immediately to state possessors. Ruling out Western ally countries</span></span> like the United Kingdom and France, and probably Israel and India as well, authorities in <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington would be left with a very short list consisting of North Korea, perhaps Iran</span></span> if its program continues, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">and possibly Pakistan. But at what stage would Russia and China be definitely ruled out in this high stakes game of nuclear Clue do? </span></span>In particular, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">if the act of nuclear terrorism occurred against a backdrop of existing tension in Washington’s relations with Russia and/or China, and at a time when threats had already been traded between these major powers, would officials and political leaders not be tempted to assume the worst?</span></span> Of course, the chances of this occurring would only seem to increase if the United States was already involved in some sort of limited armed conflict with Russia and/or China, or if they were confronting each other from a distance in a proxy war, as unlikely as these developments may seem at the present time. The reverse might well apply too: should a nuclear terrorist attack occur in Russia or China during a period of heightened tension or even limited conflict with the United States, could Moscow and Beijing resist the pressures that might rise domestically to consider the United States as a possible perpetrator or encourager of the attack? <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington’s early response to a terrorist nuclear attack</span></span> on its own soil <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">might</span></span> also <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China</span></span>. For example, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath</span></span> of the terrorist nuclear attack, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U.S. president might be expected to place the country’s armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment</span></span>, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it is just possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force (and possibly nuclear force) against them. In that situation, the temptations to preempt such actions might grow</span></span>, although it must be admitted that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response. As part of its initial response</span></span> to the act of nuclear terrorism (as discussed earlier)<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Washington might decide to order a significant conventional (or nuclear) retaliatory or disarming attack against the leadership of the terrorist group and/or states seen to support that group</span></span>. Depending on the identity and especially the location of these targets, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Russia and/or China might interpret such action as being far too close for their comfort, and potentially as an infringement on their spheres of influence and even on their sovereignty</span></span>. One far-fetched but perhaps not impossible scenario might stem from a judgment in Washington that some of the main aiders and abetters of the terrorist action resided somewhere such as Chechnya, perhaps in connection with what Allison claims is the “Chechen insurgents’ … long-standing interest in all things nuclear.”42 American pressure on that part of the world would almost certainly raise alarms in Moscow that might require a degree of advanced consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">There is also the question of how other nuclear-armed states respond to the act of nuclear terrorism on another member of that special club.</span></span> It could reasonably be expected that following a nuclear terrorist attack on the United States, both Russia and China would extend immediate sympathy and support to Washington and would work alongside the United States in the Security Council. But there is just a chance, albeit a slim one, where the support of Russia and/or China is less automatic in some cases than in others. For example, what would happen if the United States wished to discuss its right to retaliate against groups based in their territory? If, for some reason, Washington found the responses of Russia and China deeply underwhelming, (neither “for us or against us”) might it also suspect that they secretly were in cahoots with the group, increasing (again perhaps ever so slightly) the chances of a major exchange. If the terrorist group had some connections to groups in Russia and China, or existed in areas of the world over which Russia and China held sway, and if Washington felt that Moscow or Beijing were placing a curiously modest level of pressure on them, what conclusions might it then draw about their culpability? If Washington decided to use, or decided to threaten the use of, nuclear weapons, the responses of Russia and China would be crucial to the chances of avoiding a more serious nuclear exchange. They might surmise, for example, that while the act of nuclear terrorism was especially heinous and demanded a strong response, the response simply had to remain below the nuclear threshold. It would be one thing for a non-state actor to have broken the nuclear use taboo, but an entirely different thing for a state actor, and indeed the leading state in the international system, to do so. If Russia and China felt sufficiently strongly about that prospect, there is then the question of what options would lie open to them to dissuade the United States from such action: and as has been seen over the last several decades, the central dissuader of the use of nuclear weapons by states has been the threat of nuclear retaliation. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If some</span></span> readers <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">find this simply too fanciful,</span></span> and perhaps even offensive to contemplate, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">it may be informative to reverse the tables. Russia,</span></span> which possesses an arsenal of thousands of nuclear warheads and that has been one of the two most important trustees of the non-use taboo, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is subjected to an attack of nuclear terrorism. In response, Moscow places its nuclear forces very visibly on a higher state of alert and declares that it is considering the use of nuclear retaliation against the group and any of its state supporters. How would Washington view such a possibility?</span></span> Would it really be keen to support Russia’s use of nuclear weapons, including outside Russia’s traditional sphere of influence? And if not, which seems quite plausible, what options would Washington have to communicate that displeasure? <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">If China had been the victim of the nuclear terrorism and seemed likely to retaliate in kind, would the United States and Russia be happy to sit back and let this occur? In the charged atmosphere immediately after a nuclear terrorist attack, how would the attacked country respond to pressure from other major nuclear powers not to respond in kind? The phrase “how dare they tell us what to do” immediately springs to mind. Some might even go so far as to interpret this concern as a tacit form of sympathy or support for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint. </span></span></span>**

**<span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Drawdown to counterterrorism allows more effective leadership in the war on terror and credibility</span> </span>**
**<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Chellany, 9</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> - professor of strategic studies at the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi (9/14/09, Brahma, Japan Times, “An Advantagous U.S. Exit,” </span></span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20090914bc.html</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">) </span>**

**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">When the administration's principal war target is not the Taliban but rather al-Qaida remnants on the run, why chase a troop-intensive strategy pivoted on protecting population centers to win grassroots support? In reality, what it calls a "clear, hold, build" strategy is actually a "surge, bribe, run" strategy, except that the muddled nature of the mission and the deepening U.S. involvement crimp the "run" option.</span> </span>**
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">America's quandary is a reminder that it is easier to get into a war than to get out. In fact, Obama undermined his unfolding war strategy last March by publicly declaring, "There's got to be an exit strategy." The message that sent to the Taliban and its sponsor, the Pakistani military, was that they ought to simply out-wait the Americans to reclaim Afghanistan.</span> </span>**
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Before Afghanistan becomes a Vietnam-style quagmire, Obama must rethink his plan for another troop surge. Gradually drawing down U.S. troop levels indeed makes more sense because what holds the disparate constituents of the Taliban syndicate together is a common opposition to foreign military presence.</span> </span>**
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">An American military exit from Afghanistan will not come as a shot in the arm for the forces of global jihad, as many in Washington seem to fear. To the contrary, it will remove the common unifying element and unleash developments whose significance would be largely internal or regional. In Afghanistan, a vicious power struggle would break out along sectarian and ethnic lines. The Taliban, with the active support of the Pakistani military, would certainly make a run for Kabul to replay the 1996 power grab.</span> </span>**
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">But it won't be easy to repeat 1996. For one, the Taliban is splintered today, with the tail (private armies and militias) wagging the dog. For another, the non-Taliban and non-Pashtun forces now are stronger, more organized and better prepared than in 1996</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">to resist the Taliban's advance to Kabul, having been empowered by the autonomy they have enjoyed in provinces or by the offices they still hold in the Afghan federal government. </span>**
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Also, by retaining Afghan bases to carry out covert operations and Predator missions and other airstrikes, the U.S. military would be able to unleash punitive air power to prevent a 1996 repeat</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. </span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">After all, it was the combination of American air power and the Northern Alliance's ground operations that ousted the Taliban from power in 2001. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Against this background, the most likely outcome of the Afghan power struggle triggered by an American decision to pull out would be the formalization of the present de facto partition of Afghanistan along ethnic lines. Iraq, too, is headed in the same direction. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras and other ethnic minorities would be able to ensure self-governance in the Afghan areas they dominate, leaving the Pashtun lands on both sides of the British-drawn Durand Line in ferment. Thanks to ethnic polarization, the Durand Line, or the Afpak border, exists today only on maps. On the ground, it has little political, ethnic and economic relevance. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">As in Iraq, an American withdrawal would potentially let loose forces of Balkanization in the Afpak belt. That may sound disturbing, but this would be an unintended and perhaps unstoppable consequence of the U.S. invasion. </span>**
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">An American pullout actually would aid the fight against international terrorism. Instead of staying bogged down in Afghanistan and seeking to cajole and bribe the Pakistani military from continuing to provide succor to Islamic militants, Washington would become free to pursue a broader and more-balanced counterterrorism strategy.</span> </span>**
**<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Also, minus the Afghan-war burden, the U.S. would better appreciate the dangers to international security posed by Pakistani terror groups</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;"> like the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e- Mohammed<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">. The threat of an Islamist takeover of Pakistan comes not from the Taliban but from these groups that have long drawn support from the Pakistani army as part of the deep-rooted military-mullah alliance. </span></span></span>** 



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">And, this strategy maximizes US influence in Central Asia to contain instability and terrorism </span>**
**<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Simon, and Stevenson, 9</span></span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">* adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND </span>**Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409) 

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">An effort on that scale would garner majority US domestic support only if the public sees likely victory and Congress, the White House and the Beltway punditry line up decisively behind the policy. The emerging trends are pointing in the contrary direction. As monthly and annual US casualties in Afghanistan reached historical peaks in August 2009, and the Afghan national election loomed, a poll conducted by ABC News and the Washington Post indicated that most Americans did not support an extended US military commitment in Afghanistan.<span style="color: black;">31</span> Congressional Democrats are balking at anticipated requests for more troops.<span style="color: black;">32</span> And even conservative columnists, like the influential George F. Will, have turned against a maximalist Afghanistan policy.<span style="color: black;">33</span> Overall<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, increasingly strong perceptions of the Karzai government as inept and corrupt are making prospects that the U</span></span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">could enlist it as an effective counter-insurgency partner and lend it the legitimacy required to rebuild the country seem more and more baseless</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The upshot is that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">only if the United States establishes a well-calibrated limited policy now will it have the political flexibility to sustain it over the longer-term and thereby to effectively contain the jihadist threat in Central Asia. If</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, </span></span>on the other hand, the<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> Obama</span></span> administration <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">promises more than it can deliver in Afghanistan, a reprise of Vietnam may occur: once failure becomes clear, domestic support will evaporate, the administration will be compelled to withdraw precipitously, and the U</span></span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">will lose considerable traction in the region</span></span>. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Congressional democrats are balking at anticipated requests for more troops </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">These factors suggest that <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">should limit its Afghanistan/Pakistan policy to counter-terrorism and disown country-wide counterinsurgency and state-building in Afghanistan</span></span>. At the same time, Washington must remain highly sensitive to the dynamic whereby decreased military activity in Afghanistan combined with robust operations in Pakistan could induce al-Qaeda to return to Afghanistan and render it a main threat once again. In that light, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">any abrupt wholesale American military withdrawal from Afghanistan would be too risky. Instead, the United States should seek to facilitate a glide-path to a substantial drawdown - and with it fewer casualties and lower expenditures in Afghanistan - over the next few years</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">.</span></span></span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Doing so would involve continuing to suppress al-Qaeda in Pakistan with selective and discriminate drone strikes and denying al-Qaeda access to Afghanistan</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. The former would require bases within Afghan territory from which to deploy airpower and special-operations forces against terrorists and terrorist infrastructure, as well as the troops and equipment to secure these bases. The latter would call for reinforced border security and force protection within Afghanistan, which in themselves would entail a surprisingly large number of soldiers. For these purposes, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the U</span></span>nited <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would continue to bring extensive human intelligence and surveillance capabilities to bear on Afghanistan to detect and assess potential threats to American interests. To mitigate and eliminate such threats, the generous deployment of US special-operations forces to Afghanista</span></span><span class="Underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">n</span></span> - which currently comprises some 50% of all US special-operations personnel - <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would have to be maintained over the medium term.</span></span> Meanwhile, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">US train-and-equip programmes for Afghan security forces should be intensified in contemplation of a gradual and controlled hand-off of the domestic counter-terrorism mission to them when they are ready, as well as to prepare them for counterinsurgency operations, should the Afghan government wish to use them for that purpose.</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The United States should also provide strong political and economic support for the Afghan government, which is likely to remain under Karzai once the votes of the 20 August election are counted and certified. Kabul, however, should be left to take the lead in managing its relationship with the Taliban (as well as anti-narcotics policy). With US encouragement, the Karzai government should make it clear to Pashtuns in the southern and eastern parts of the country that if they support insurgents or terrorists aiming to destabilise the Afghan or Pakistani governments, they will suffer financially and militarily. Again, some US forces would be needed to give such arrangements teeth, but not at the levels required for an all-out counter-insurgency. American insurance against a militant Islamist coup or an uncontrollable level of destabilisation also should be left in place. This could entail a standby stabilisation force with tactical air capabilities based in or near Kabul, along with a robust quick-reaction force. </span>
<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">That policy would reflect the reality that a deeply committed counterinsurgency campaign in Afghanistan is potentially counterproductive, probably unwinnable and in any event unnecessary. The United States can protect its interests and fulfil its international security obligations with a far more circumscribed counter-terrorism effort focused on Pakistan</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">. Under such an approach, US policy would recognise Afghanistan as the residual problem that it has, in fact, become. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">The Plan immediately turns the population against the Taliban, solving legitimacy </span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Dorronsoro, 9</span></span> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">-</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,” </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf</span>) </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">This three-zone strategy is not, //per se,// a gamechanger, and it must be accompanied by an incremental, phased withdrawal. The withdrawal would not be a consequence of “stabilization,” but rather an essential part of the process. Since <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the presence of foreign troops is the most important factor in mobilizing support for the Taliban,</span></span> the beginning of the <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">withdrawal would change the political game on two levels</span></span>. First<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, Jihad would become a motivation for fewer Afghans</span></span>; instead, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the conflict would be mostly seen as a civil war</span></span>. Second, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the pro-government population</span></span> (or, more exactly, the anti-Taliban one) <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">would rally together because of fear of a Taliban victory.</span></span> </span>
<span style="color: #002561; font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Why Withdraw the Combat Troops ? Reframing the War </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">There is an argument against withdrawing combat troops: namely, that al-Qaeda would retain its sanctuary in Afghanistan because the Afghan state would not have control of some parts of the country, especially in the east. Though superficially compelling, this argument is weak for two reasons. First, the international coalition lacks the resources to control the periphery of the Afghan territory anyway. Second, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the withdrawal of combat troops does not preclude targeted operations with the agreement of the Kabul government</span></span>. So, in terms of physical security, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the withdrawal of combat troops does not bring clear gains for al-Qaeda.</span></span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">There are two important reasons for withdrawal. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">First, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the mere presence of foreign soldiers fighting a war in Afghanistan is probably the single most important factor in the resurgence of the Taliban</span></span>. The convergence of nationalism and Jihad has aided the Taliban in extending its influence. It is sometimes frightening to see how similar NATO military operations are to Soviet ones in the 1980s and how the similarities could affect the perceptions of the population. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The majority of Afghans are now deeply opposed to the foreign troops on their soil. The idea that one can “stabilize” Afghanistan with more troops goes against all that one should have learned from the Soviet war</span></span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">.</span>** The real issue is not to “stabilize” but to create a new dynamic. The Taliban have successfully framed the war as a Jihad and a liberation war against (non-Muslim) foreign armies. The concrete consequence of this moral victory is that the movement has been able to gain ground in non-Pashtun areas. The situations in Badghris Province (northwest) and in Badakhshan Province (northeast) are extremely worrisome, because the Taliban have been able to attract the support of some Pashtun tribes and fundamentalist networks. A province like Wardak, initially opposed to the Taliban in the 1990s, is now one of its strongholds. Insecurity bred by the narcotics trade and the infighting of local groups in the north also provides the Taliban opportunities to find new allies on a more practical, rather than ideological, ground. This trend is extraordinarily dangerous, since the spread of the war geographically would put Western countries in an untenable position. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10.0pt;">Second, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">withdrawal would create a new dynamic in the country, providing two main benefits. The momentum of the Taliban would slow or stop altogether, because without a foreign occupier the Jihadist and nationalist feelings of the population would be much more difficult to mobilize</span></span>. Furthermore<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, the Karzai regime would gain legitimacy</span></span>. If Karzai (or his successor) receives enough help from the international coalition, he would be able to develop more centralized institutions in the strategic areas or at least keep local actors under control. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The regime would remain corrupt but would appear more legitimate if it succeeded in bringing security to the population in the strategic zones without the help of foreign troops</span></span>. The support of the urban population, which opposes the Taliban, is a critical issue. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">Corruption is a problem primarily if it accelerates the independence of Afghanistan’s peripheral regions.</span></span></span>








=Negative=