[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16pt; line-height: 115%;">AFF – DEONT 1 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">My value is morality. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Morality is based on the notion that humans have intrinsic worth necessary to protect. Kamm, Frances, 2007 [Philosophy Professor at Harvard]. //Intricate Ethics: Rights, Responsibilities, and Permissible Harm//. Pg. 28. “Suppose that the…in this way.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Using people as a means is an impersonal bad. Isak Applebaum [Philosopher] //Ethics for Adversaries: The Morality of Roles is Public and Professional Life//. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press (2000) pg 139. “If one wishes…is done to us.” </span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Further, morality can be assessed in terms of intention. Gerald Dworkin [Professor of moral, political and legal philosophy. He is currently Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California|University of California]], Davis. He has also taught at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard|Harvard]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT|MIT]], and the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Illinois|University of Illinois]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago|Chicago]].] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031|Nuclear Intentions]]</span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]]</span> Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 445-460 Published by: The University of Chicago Press, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031]], pg. 447. “Future intentions are…of those intentions.” </span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">If the achievement of that goal is contingent on a violation of rights, it is especially immoral. Gerald Dworkin [Professor of moral, political and legal philosophy. He is currently Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California|University of California]], Davis. He has also taught at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard|Harvard]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT|MIT]], and the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Illinois|University of Illinois]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago|Chicago]].] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031|Nuclear Intentions]]</span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]]</span> Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 445-460 Published by: The University of Chicago Press, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031]], pg. 460. “Finally, and this…what we do.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Morality restrains actions even for supposed good ends. Gerald Dworkin [Professor of moral, political and legal philosophy. He is currently Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California|University of California]], Davis. He has also taught at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard|Harvard]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT|MIT]], and the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Illinois|University of Illinois]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago|Chicago]].] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031|Nuclear Intentions]]</span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]]</span> Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 445-460 Published by: The University of Chicago Press, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031]], pg. 460. “In the case of…achieve important values.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">The standard is preventing the violation of innocents. </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Self-defense cannot involve harm to innocents. Jeffrie G. Murphy [Regents' Professor of Law & Philosophy at the Arizona State University College of Law] //The Monist//, Vol. 57, No. 4 (1973). [[http://www.ditext.com/murphy/innocent.html]]. “What I suggest...to kill me.” </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Thesis: possession of nukes intends violation of innocents. </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Contention 1:</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> **Nuclear deterrence holds innocents hostage**. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Nuclear deterrence is a social institution that necessitates non-consequentialist violations to be moral. Steven Lee 1985 [Teaches philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges. He writes on issues in social, moral, and political philosophy, especially on matters of morality and war] //Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences.// </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]] </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence. Published by: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=ucpress|The University of Chicago Press]]</span>. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/2381037.pdf.%20pg.%20550-551|http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/2381037.pdf. pg. 550-551]]. “But nuclear deterrence…of social institutions.” </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Nuclear deterrence holds hostages. Steven Lee 1996 [Teaches philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges. He writes on issues in social, moral, and political philosophy, especially on matters of morality and war] //Morality, Prudence, and Nuclear Weapons.// Cambridge University Press. Pg. 47-48. “Nuclear deterrence is…to these persons.” </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Deprivation of liberty is not necessary for hostage holding. Steven Lee 1996 [Teaches philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges. He writes on issues in social, moral, and political philosophy, especially on matters of morality and war] //Morality, Prudence, and Nuclear Weapons.// Cambridge University Press. Pg. 48-49. “Second, the argument…also holds hostages.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">This imposes a substantial risk which is indiscriminate. Gerald Dworkin [Professor of moral, political and legal philosophy. He is currently Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California|University of California]], Davis. He has also taught at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard|Harvard]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT|MIT]], and the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Illinois|University of Illinois]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago|Chicago]].] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031|Nuclear Intentions]]</span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]]</span> Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985). The University of Chicago Press, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031]]. “Under the traditional...of the distinction.” </span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">This results in innocent massacre. Jaya Tiwari 2002 [Senior Policy Analyst for Physicians for Social Responsibility’s Security Program. Involved in research, analysis, and writing about international security, nuclear weapons proliferation, arms control and nuclear disarmament, and effects of nuclear war]. Ira Helfand [MD, Specialty in Emergency Medicine, North American Vice-President, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War], Lachlan Forrow [MD, Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School (HMS). Faculty Associate at the Harvard University Program in Ethics and the Professions having primary responsibility providing medical ethics curricula at HMS. He is Director of the Ethics Support Service within BIDMC, and chairs the BIDMC Ethics Advisory Committee.], [[http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Stan-PS-314-2009-Q1_PNP/Syllabus/EReadings/HelfandForrow2002Nuclear.pdf]], pg. 2. “Using the CATS…extensive radioactive contamination.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2: Nuclear testing results in innocent violation. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Nuclear testing is necessary. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">* I read one of these two cards (they were interchanged)</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;"> * </span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Donald MacKenzie [Professor of Sociology at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Edinburgh|University of Edinburgh]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scotland|Scotland]]] and Graham Spinardi 1995. “Tacit Knowledge, Weapons Design, and the Uninvention of Nuclear Weapons.” American Journal of Science, Volume 101 Number 1. </span></span><span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Stan-PS-314-2009-Q1_PNP/Syllabus/EReadings/MacKenzieSpinardi1995Tacit.pdf]], 47. “As we shall…view with trepidation.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Medalia, Jonathan 2005 [Specialist in National Defense, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division.] “Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty: Pro and Con”. __Congressional__ Research Service Report for Congress. Pg 3. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Testing results in innocent massacre. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">* I read one of these two cards (they were interchanged) * </span>//</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">Mary Dickson [an award-winning writer who has written about the consequences of nuclear testing and worked on issues of peace and justice for more than 25 years.] [[http://www.kued.org/productions/skullvalley/resources/past.html]] “Utahns know first-hand…isn’t a downwinder.” </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16pt;">AC DEONT 2 </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">That inherent worth demands we do not submit to a utilitarianism of rights. Kamm, Frances, 2007 [Philosophy Professor at Harvard]. //Intricate Ethics: Rights, Responsibilities, and Permissible Harm//. Pg. 28. “Suppose that the…in this way.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Using people as a means is an impersonal bad. Isak Applebaum [Philosopher] //Ethics for Adversaries: The Morality of Roles is Public and Professional Life//. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press (2000) pg 139. “If one wishes…is done to us.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">Self defense cannot involve the violation of innocents. David Rodin [David Rodin is Director of Research at the Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics at Oxford University. A former Rhodes Scholar from New Zealand, he holds a B.Phil. and doctorate in philosophy from Oxford University]. “War and Self Defense.” //Ethics & International Affairs// 18 no. 1 (Winter, 2004). http://www.carnegiecouncil.org/resources/journal/18_1/symposium/1111.html. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The standard is treating people as ends. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">1: Nuclear deterrence is inherently immoral. </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">A. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Holds innocents hostage. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Nuclear deterrence holds hostages. Steven Lee 1996 [Teaches philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges. He writes on issues in social, moral, and political philosophy, especially on matters of morality and war] //Morality, Prudence, and Nuclear Weapons.// Cambridge University Press. Pg. 47-48. “Nuclear deterrence is…to these persons.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">This imposes a substantial risk which is indiscriminate. Gerald Dworkin [Professor of moral, political and legal philosophy. He is currently Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California|University of California]], Davis. He has also taught at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard|Harvard]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT|MIT]], and the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Illinois|University of Illinois]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago|Chicago]].] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031|Nuclear Intentions]]</span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]]</span> Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985). The University of Chicago Press, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031]]. “Under the traditional...of the distinction.” </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">This results in innocent massacre. Jaya Tiwari 2002 [Senior Policy Analyst for Physicians for Social Responsibility’s Security Program. Involved in research, analysis, and writing about international security, nuclear weapons proliferation, arms control and nuclear disarmament, and effects of nuclear war]. Ira Helfand [MD, Specialty in Emergency Medicine, North American Vice-President, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War], Lachlan Forrow [MD, Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School (HMS). Faculty Associate at the Harvard University Program in Ethics and the Professions having primary responsibility providing medical ethics curricula at HMS. He is Director of the Ethics Support Service within BIDMC, and chairs the BIDMC Ethics Advisory Committee.], [[http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Stan-PS-314-2009-Q1_PNP/Syllabus/EReadings/HelfandForrow2002Nuclear.pdf]], pg. 2. “Using the CATS…extensive radioactive contamination.” </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">B. </span>****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Commits to retaliation. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Intent can be morally evaluated. Gerald Dworkin [Professor of moral, political and legal philosophy. He is currently Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California|University of California]], Davis. He has also taught at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard|Harvard]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT|MIT]], and the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Illinois|University of Illinois]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago|Chicago]].] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031|Nuclear Intentions]]</span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]]</span> Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 445-460 Published by: The University of Chicago Press, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031]], pg. 447. “Future intentions are…of those intentions.” </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Commitment to retaliation is necessary to gain any benefit. Gerald Dworkin [Professor of moral, political and legal philosophy. He is currently Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California|University of California]], Davis. He has also taught at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard|Harvard]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT|MIT]], and the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Illinois|University of Illinois]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chicago|Chicago]].] <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031|Nuclear Intentions]]</span>. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]]</span> Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 445-460 Published by: The University of Chicago Press, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Even committing such an act for the purpose of a good ends is still immoral. Robert P. Churchill 1983 [Associate professor of philosophy at George Washington University] Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue. Source: Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament. Sage Publications, Inc. in association with the American Academy of Political and Social Science. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/104453]]. </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">2: Nuclear testing violates innocents. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Nuclear testing is necessary to maintain an arsenal. Medalia, Jonathan 2005 [Specialist in National Defense, Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division.] “Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty: Pro and Con”. __Congressional__ Research Service Report for Congress. Pg 3. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Testing results in innocent violation. <span style="font-weight: normal;">Mary Dickson</span> [an award-winning writer who has written about the consequences of nuclear testing and worked on issues of peace and justice for more than 25 years.] [[http://www.kued.org/productions/skullvalley/resources/past.html]] “Utahns know first-hand…harmful than sunshine.” </span>

==Negative== 

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">NC GOV OBLIGATION 1 </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The value is governmental legitimacy. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Kennan defines the obligations of a government. George F. Kennan [an American advisor, diplomat, political scientist, and historian. He is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.] [[http://faculty.arts.ubc.ca/price/373/kennan.pdf]]. “Government is an...“good” or “bad”.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">The standard is protecting the security of a government’s citizens. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">1: Nuclear weapons are necessary to uphold security. </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Renouncement compromises a state’s security. Bruce D. Berkowitz 1985 [began his career at the Central Intelligence Agency and is a senior analyst at RAND and a research fellow at the Hoover Institution] Proliferation, Deterrence, and the Likelihood of Nuclear War.” The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 29, No. 1. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/174041.pdf]], pg. 125. “Furthermore, as several…difficult to pass.” </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">(A card that I sometimes read) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">This means a state will maintain the ability to counteract that vulnerability. Thomas Schelling, 2009 [American [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economist|economist]] and professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_affairs|foreign affairs]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_security|national security]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_strategy|nuclear strategy]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arms_control|arms control]] at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Maryland_School_of_Public_Policy|School of Public Policy]] at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Maryland,_College_Park|University of Maryland, College Park]]. Was </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Distinguished University Professor Emeritus in the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland. Recognized by the Nobel Prize committee as a pioneer in the development of noncooperative game theory and its application to problems of politics and international relations.]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> “A World Without Nuclear Weapons?” </span><span class="artjournal">//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Daedalus</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">, </span></span><span class="artdatevolumeissuepart"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Vol. 138, No. 4</span></span><span class="artpages"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">. “A crucial question…And what then?” </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">A world without nukes would be extremely dangerous and unstable. Thomas Schelling, 2009 [American [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economist|economist]] and professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_affairs|foreign affairs]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_security|national security]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_strategy|nuclear strategy]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arms_control|arms control]] at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Maryland_School_of_Public_Policy|School of Public Policy]] at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Maryland,_College_Park|University of Maryland, College Park]]. Was </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Distinguished University Professor Emeritus in the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland. Recognized by the Nobel Prize committee as a pioneer in the development of noncooperative game theory and its application to problems of politics and international relations.]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> “A World Without Nuclear Weapons?” </span><span class="artjournal">//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Daedalus</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">, </span></span><span class="artdatevolumeissuepart"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Vol. 138, No. 4</span></span><span class="artpages"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">. “In a world…a nervous world.” </span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">It would have devastating repercussions, including nuclear launch. Thomas Schelling, 2009 [American [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economist|economist]] and professor of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Foreign_affairs|foreign affairs]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_security|national security]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_strategy|nuclear strategy]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arms_control|arms control]] at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Maryland_School_of_Public_Policy|School of Public Policy]] at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Maryland,_College_Park|University of Maryland, College Park]]. Was </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Distinguished University Professor Emeritus in the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland. Recognized by the Nobel Prize committee as a pioneer in the development of noncooperative game theory and its application to problems of politics and international relations.]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> “A World Without Nuclear Weapons?” </span><span class="artjournal">//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Daedalus</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">, </span></span><span class="artdatevolumeissuepart"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Vol. 138, No. 4</span></span><span class="artpages"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">. “One is that…of self-defense.”</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Renouncement puts nations at the threat of rogue nations. Bruno Tetrais 2010 [Research Fellow with the Foundation for Strategic Research, located in Paris; Research Fellow with the Foundation for Strategic Research, located in Paris.] 2010 Center for Strategic and International Studies. “The Illogic of Zero.” [[http://www.gees.org/files/documentation/08052010072620_Documen-07830.pdf]], 131. </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">(A card I sometimes read) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">This incentivizes nations who view the state as the enemy to pursue WMD. Julian Lewis April 2006. [MP is the Shadow Defence Minister with responsibility for the British Royal Navy. This article is the 2005 winner of the Trench Gascoigne Essay Prize competition.] “ Nuclear Weapons and Strategic Stability: Nuclear Disarmament Versus Peace in the 21st Century.” The Journal of the Royal United Services Institute. **Vol. 151, No. 2**//.// Pg. 53. “Does proliferation make…or chemical aggression.” </span></span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;">NC SELF DEFENSE 1</span>**</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;">V - Gov Legitimacy</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Kennan defines the obligations of a government. George F. Kennan [an American advisor, diplomat, political scientist, and historian. He is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.] [[http://faculty.arts.ubc.ca/price/373/kennan.pdf]]. “Government is an...“good” or “bad”.” </span></span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;"> </span></span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;">C - maintaining the right to self-defense</span>
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">States have a right to self-defense. Bruce Williams [Ph.D. in political science from the University of Minnesota and has taught at the Pennsylvania State University, the University of Michigan, the University of Illinois, and the London School of Economics] . </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=amerpoliscierevi|The American Political Science Review]]. </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Vol. 17, No. 1 (Feb., 1923), pp. 17-33 [[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=apsa|American Political Science Association]]. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1943790]]. “There is, to....to these ends.”</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Thesis</span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">: Possession of nuclear weapons is an exercise of a state’s right to self-defense. </span>

The contention level is the same as the case above. 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]