<span style="color: #ff0300;"><span style="font-family: 'Comic Sans MS',cursive;">
</span></span>
=[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles]]COIN Affirmative-- Niles= 
<span style="color: black; display: block;">**Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military presence assigned to the counterinsurgency mission in Afghanistan.**



**Contention two is Stability**


**COIN is doomed to failure—it will only cause instability in the short term, ending it is the only way to maintain stability**
**Hadar 10** (Leon T. Hadar, is a research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia. “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It” July, 28.[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011Donnie+Margaret]])
The arm-chair strategists…north of Afghanistan.


**Presence is the problem—Afghanis only are siding with al-Qaeda because they resent presence --ending COIN is the only solution to solving resentment and attempts at centralization —not any of your surge cp’s**
**Rosen 10** (Nir, a journalist who has written extensively on American policy toward Afghanistan and Iraq.
Something from Nothing U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan [[http://bostonreview.net/BR35.1/rosen.phpDonnie]]
In Afghanistan, there…the Arab extremist volunteers.


**Centralization causes ethnic conflicts, causes violence in the region**
**Cheragh**, March 2nd 20**09,** “Afghan paper highlights need for decentralization of power”, BBC News, Lexis-Nexis
The effort for …get more vulnerable.


**Afghanistan instability is causing Pakistan instability—radicalizes and militarizes politics**
**Coll 9** (Steve, is president of New America Foundation, and a staff writer at The New Yorker magazine. Previously he spent 20 years as a foreign correspondent and senior editor at The Washington Post, serving as the paper's managing editor from 1998 to 2004 “Afghanistan's Impact on Pakistan” Oct. 1 [[http://www.newamerica.net/publications/resources/2009/afghanistans_impact_on_pakistanDonnie]])
It seems useful …the country's population
.

**Pakistan instability causes India to launch a pre-emptive nuclear strike on Pakistan**
**Ricks 2001** [Thomas Ricks is the author of Fiasco: The American Military Adventure in Iraq, 2003-05, which was a no. 1 New York Times bestseller and a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2007. He is special military correspondent for The Washington Post, senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a contributing editor for Foreign Policy magazine. Washington Post – October 21, 2001 – [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]]]
The prospect of …on strategic games.


**Indo pak war escalates and goes full on—smoke yields cause extinction and turn your impacts**
**Robock and Toon 10** [Dr. Alan Robock is a professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction. Prof. Robock has been a researcher in the area of climate change for more than 30 years.. His current research focuses on soil moisture variations, the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate, effects of nuclear war on climate, and regional atmosphere/hydrology modeling. He has served as Editor of climate journals, including the Journal of Climate and Applied Meteorology and the Journal of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres. He has published more than 250 articles on his research, including more than 150 peer-reviewed papers and Owen Brian Toon is professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado.[1] He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University – From the January 20 10 Scientific American Magazine – [[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war]]]
Nuclear bombs dropped …in the tropics.


</span>
**Our claim is reverse causal—decentralization is key to stability**
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Goodson<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">, 2003</span>**</span>
[Larry, professor of Middle East Studies at the U.S. Army War College, January, “Afghanistan’s Long Road to Reconstruction,” Journal of Democracy Volume 14, Number 1, Project Muse]
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">A third problem is the resurgence of the warlords…</span><span style="color: black;"> where it is most needed.</span>



</span><span style="color: black; display: block;">**Contention two is hegemony**


**First, COIN will fail, not enough troops, government illegitimacy, Taliban funding, no public support and no understanding will guarantee it—only the plans small foot print strategy solves**
**Nelson 9** (Rick,former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, [[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin]])
Q1: General McChrystal is…” approach would entail.


**We will isolate three internal links to heg--**


**First, Mission failure COIN alienates locals witch makes losing inevitable—kills morale and signals weakness collapsing heg—the plans small foot print strategy makes presence sustainable and solves all their turns**
**Kuhner, 9** (Jeffrey, the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)
America is losing …arms of extremists.


**Second is overreach, COIN is causing imperial overstretch due to high demand for tons of troops—makes heg decline inevitable**
**Pyne, 9** - Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “
Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, [[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/]])
Since we invaded Iraq … Georgia this past year.


**Third is expenses--COIN forces the US to stay in Afghanistan for at least another decade—causes high deficits**
**Dreyfuss 10** (Robert Dreyfuss Obama, Petraeus, and the Cult of COIN in Afghanistan is the author of Devil's Game: How the United States Helped Unleash Fundamentalist Islam (Henry Holt/Metropolitan Books, 2005). An independent journalist based in Alexandria, Virginia, Dreyfuss covers national security for Rolling Stone, has written extensively on Iraq and the war on terrorism for The Nation, The American Prospect, and Mother Jones. He has appeared on NPR, MSNBC, CNBC, and many other broadcast outlets, and wrote the blog "The Dreyfuss Report" for TomPaine.com, which now appears on his web site, www.robertdreyfuss.com. jun 28 [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/bob-dreyfuss/obama-petraeus-and-the-cu_b_628122.htmlDonnie]])
Still, it’s worrying… fewer, next year.


**High deficits obliterate heg—the USSR proves spending billions in Afghanistan for a sustained period collapses heg**
Tom **Engelhard**t is the author of The End of Victory Culture, a history of American triumphalism in the Cold War era. He is a consulting editor for Metropolitan Books, a fellow of the Nation Institute, and a teaching fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. “Whistling Past the Afghan Graveyard Where Empires Go to Die” February 5, 20**09**. Available at: [[http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175030/the_empire_v_the_graveyard]]
Back in 1979, National … burials, not resurrections.


**Heg solves war, proliferation and creates a bandwagoning effect, it is also sustainable**
**Thayer 2006** (Bradley, associate professor in the Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, Missouri State University, In Defense of Primacy, The National Interest, November 1, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+defense+of+primacy-a0155089106|http://www.thefreelibrary.com/In+def...cy-a0155089106]]</span>)
U.S. primacy--and … of the United States.



</span>
**US hegemony is sustainable- lack of viable and willing challenges, allies, and controll of the international system guarantee future U.S. primacy**
**Hirsh 9/12/10** [Michael, international affairs reporter for newsweek, winner of the 2004 national magazine award for general excellence. we're no. 11!, htt://www.newsweek.com/2010/08/12/how-to-understand-american-decline.html//MSTRONG]




<span style="color: black; display: block;">**Contention four is solvency**


**Small foot print strategy is best—it preserves stability in Afghanistan and prevents total withdrawal, which would makes all their turns inevitable**
**Blackwill 10** (Robert D. Blackwill served as U.S. ambassador to India, deputy national security advisor for strategic planning and presidential envoy to Iraq in the George W. Bush administration International Council Member, Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs "A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan" July 7. [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html?breadcrumb=%25Donnie]])
The Obama administration's …future of Iraq


**Phased withdrawal solves all of their turns—we need to maintain a limited CT strategy like the plan to win the war**
**Stewart 9** (Rory Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro. From 2000 to 2002 he walked 6,000 miles on foot from Turkey to Bangladesh “Rory Stewart Testifies on the Future of Afghanistan Before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee” Sep 16, [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistanDonnie]])
The greatest risk …less will be more.


**No risk of any our your turns— there is no incentive to attack once we leave and terrorists will never get to the US—the plan is the only way to solve**
**Hornberger 09** (Jacob, Founder and president of The Future of Freedom Foundation, 2/9, “Immediately Withdraw from Afghanistan Too”,<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; cursor: pointer;">[[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-02-09.asp]]</span>)
“But the terrorists … terrorism in Afghanistan.


**No turns—US presence ONLY destabilizes the region—the Taliban won’t host al-Qaeda anyway**
**Innocent 09** Foreign Policy Analyst at Cato,’09 (Malou Innocent, “Afghanistan = Bottomless Pit of Massive Social Engineering”, 9/2/09, [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/02/afghanistan-bottomless-pit-of-massive-social-engineering]])</span>

===[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles--Pak. Arms Sharing Add-On- Niles]]<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pak. Arms Sharing Add-On- Niles</span>=== 


<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COIN is causing the US to give nuclear power to Pakistan to try to get support for the stratagey—causes Indo/Pak arms race and causes nuclear world war III
**Mull 10** (Josh, is a Afghanistan Blogging Fellow, Brave New Foundation/The Seminal Citizen Journalist “[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/josh-mull/crazy-coin-strategy-us-pa_b_620210.html|Crazy COIN Strategy: US-Pakistani Nuclear Deal]]” 6/21. [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/josh-mull/crazy-coin-strategy-us-pa_b_620210.htmlDonnie]] )
Our strategy in Afghanistan is pretty bad... Yes, it's really that bad.</span>

==[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles-2AC T:]]<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC T:</span>== 
===[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles-2AC T:-Combat Troops]][[#Affirmative-2AC T:-Combat Troops- Greenhill RR]]<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Combat Troops </span>=== 


<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counter-interpretation “Presence” is only military aid, combat operations, and bases
**American Observer 09** – quoting DOD Reports – “US military presence in foreign countries exceeds rest of world” – November 10, 2009 – [[http://inews6.americanobserver.net/articles/us-military-presence-foreign-countries-exceeds-rest-world]]
The United States … in combat theaters.


There is no distinction between combat and non-combat troops in Afghanistan OR Iraq—that puts them in a double bind-either we meet or they limit out 2/3 of the topic killing aff ground and going against the framers intent
**Gipson 05** [Heather S. Ingrum Gipson, J.D. Candidate, University of Missouri-Kansas City, Winter 2005, UMKC Law Review, 74 UMKC L. Rev. 383, Lexis Academic]
n136 Ann Scott Tyson, Bid … and non-combat positions. Id.



In your authors foot notes he gives a case list and clarifies what he means by “not limited to” public shows military musical groups; staff-to-staff talks and studies with foreign military organizations and analytical groups are all T aff’s. They ruin aff ground and this turns their limits standard
**Thomason 02** James Thomason – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, 2002 [[http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf]] This is generally consistent, …exchanges of military</span>
=== === 
==[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles-2AC DAs]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2AC DAs </span>== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">
Obama Good Link Turns</span>


Withdrawal from Afghanistan is bipartisan


<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Innocent</span>
20
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">10 </span>
[Malou,
<span style="display: block; font-weight: normal;">is a foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute, “Leaving Afghanistan moves beyond left vs. right” – Politico – March 10th – – [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0310/34158.html]]]</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">The resolution’s substance …</span>
war to a close.





**Withdrawal from Afghanistan is popular. Democrats are growing weary of it**


<span style="display: block; font-size: 90%;">Barone 10</span>
[Senior political analyst for the Washington Examiner, 7/20/10 , Boston Herald, [[http://www.bostonherald.com/news/opinion/op_ed/view.bg?articleid=1269033&srvc=rss]]]
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in;">A year ago, … it can be self-defeating.

</span>
===[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles-2AC DAs-Obama Bad Link Turns]]<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Obama Bad Link Turns</span>=== 

**Flip-flop on Afghanistan to pull out will destroy Obama’s agenda**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Biddle 9</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> –</span> **<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Roger Hertog Senior Fellow for Defense Policy</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, (Stephen, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan,” The American Interest, July-August, [[http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, </span><span class="Underline0"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">reversing policy …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with nightmarish imagery </span></span>


**Flip flops destroy political capital**
**Fits 96** (Professor of Law at University of Pennsylvania Law School, January 19<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">96</span></span>, “The Paradox of Power in the Modern State,” University of Pennsylvania Law Review, p.857)

Centralized and visible …<span class="underline"> and ultimate weakness</span>.


**Massive GOP backlash to reductions in Afghanistan presence**
**Congressional Quarterly Politics, ’10** [CQ Politics News, “GOP Criticizes Withdrawal Plan as Undermining Afghanistan Efforts,” 6/16/10, [[http://www.cqpolitics.com/wmspage.cfm?docID=cqmidday-000003684343]], accessed 6/21/10]
<span class="underline">Senate Republicans</span> on … conditions on the ground.

==[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles-2AC Ks]] 2AC Ks== 
===[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles-2AC Ks-Security]]Security=== 
D. Critical theory and problem solving theory are not incompatitable—the perm solves any residual link
[[#_Toc271074335]][[#_Toc271073991]][[#_Toc271066290]]<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[Wesley, Poli Sci @ St. Joseph’s “Theory as a Factor and the Theorist as an Actor: The "Pragmatist Constructivist" Lessons of John Dewey and John Kenneth Galbraith” International Studies Review p. 445//STRONG]//</span></span>
//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In recent decades, the … international politics (Edwards 1990).</span>//
//3. Realism-//
//A. it’s true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mearsheimer 2001 </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361</span></span>//STRONG]
<span class="underline">The optimists' …region at peace.</span>
<span style="text-indent: 0.2in;">B. it solves-</span>
<span style="text-indent: 0.2in;"> Our plans use of realism is a prerequisite to the alternative- total rejection alienates the US and makes realism inevitable.</span>
[[#_Toc271074337]][[#_Toc271073993]][[#_Toc271066292]]<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1998 [</span></span>Stefano, Assistant Professor at Central European Univ., Realism in International Relations and International Political Economy, p. 227//STRONG]//
//Therefore, in a third step, …<span class="underline"> spirit, of realism.</span>//



==[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles-2AC CPs]]2AC CPs== 
===[[#COIN Affirmative-- Niles-2AC CPs-Jirga]]Jirga=== 
Past Jirga’s have failed before there is no reason why this particular Jirga would work.
//More ev, Jirgas are empirically unsuccessful//
//**Wadhams, 6/4** -- Director for South Asia Security Studies at the Center for American Progress (2010, Caroline, Foreign Policy, “Afghanistan’s Fluffy Peace Jirga,” <span style="color: black;">[[http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/04/afghanistans_fluffy_peace_jirga]]</span>)//
//__With just three …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and practice.</span>//


=[[#Negative]]Negative= 

==[[#Negative-CPs]]CPs== 
===[[#Negative-CPs-Okinawa CP--Jungle Warfare Training Center PIC]]Okinawa CP--Jungle Warfare Training Center PIC=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should remove all non-Jungle Warfare Training Center bases from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.**


The JWTC is key to Marine readiness and jungle war training

Lance Cpl. Tyler J



<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">. Hlavac</span>
photographer and journalist specializing in the maries“Welcome (back) to the jungle Jungle Warfare Training Center up and running” June 22, 200



<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">7</span>
. accessed July 31, 2010. [[http://www.okinawa.usmc.mil/Public%20Affairs%20Info/Archive%20News%20Pages/2007/070622-jungle.htmlDonnie]]

The Camp Gonsalves Jungle Warfare Training Center is back in business
. ………………….."
Marines need to maintain skills in all environment
s. "(
JWTC) also gives young NCOs and junior Marines a chance to lead and build confidence, because out on the course, whoever is willing to step up, is often in charge
," he added

Readiness solves war
Jack



<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spencer</span>
is a Research Fellow in Nuclear Energy Policy at The Heritage Foundation's Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies. “The Facts About Military Readiness” Sep. 15,



<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2k.</span>
accessed July 31, 2010 [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2000/09/BG1394-The-Facts-About-Military-ReadinessDonnie]]
Military readiness is vital because declines in America's military readiness signal to the rest of the world that the U
**nited**
S
tates
is not prepared to defend its interests
…………………………..
. A high state of military readiness is more likely to deter potentially hostile nations from acting aggressively in regions of vital national interest, thereby preserving peace
.



===[[#Negative-CPs-COIN CP]]COIN CP=== 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States federal government should</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -announce that it will not follow the July 2011 withdrawal date from Afghanistan</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -remain committed to the counterinsurgency strategy, including using the surge as a means to implement that strategy.</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -develop a program to guarantee the security and the employment of insurgents and other former combatants who agree to lay down their weapons.</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -end centralization efforts in Afghanistan and emphasize and practice a decentralized state in Afghanistan</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -publicly announce it will stop using the phrase ‘war on terrorism’ and instead emphasize that the war is necessary to defeat al-qaeda</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -develop and economic aid program for Afghanistan and Pakistan described as per our Stewart evidence</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> -</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">substantially increase funds for advertising for people to join the military, entitlement bonuses and the number of military recruiters on duty. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">-offer pay raises and bonuses for those who reenlist for the military for additional tours. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">-offer educational incentives for those who join the military. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">We’ll clarify. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Increasing recruting incentives like the cp solves quickest </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kapp 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lawrence, 2/25/2002, “Recruiting and Retention in the Active Component Military: Are There Problems?” CRS, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.policyarchive.org/handle/10207/bitstreams/1356.pdf]]</span>, D.A. 7/26) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Historically</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, the first …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">civilian employers </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Retention is the key internal link—it has a snowball effect that kills the whole army—this is an alt cause to the aff even if we kick the CP </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Krepinevich 2K</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Andrew, 9/1/2000, “Ready for What?,” Wall Street Journal, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/Archive/O.20000901.Ready_for_What/O.20000901.Ready_for_What.htm]]</span>, D.A. 7/26)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The charged nature …</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">is crucial here. </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Developing a surrender program is something CT uniquenly lacks—cp solves the best internal to stability</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Stewart et al 9</span></span> (**Rory Stewart** is the Ryan Professor of Human Rights at the Harvard’s Kennedy School and the Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy and of its Afghanistan-Pakistan
program. [[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/afghanistan/docs/Afghanistan-PakistanTaskForce.pdf]]//Donnie)//
//<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The U.S.</span></span> **and ...** <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">livelihood and security. </span> </span>//

//<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Aid program solves—poverty is the root cause </span></span>//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stewart et al 9</span></span> (**Rory Stewart** is the Ryan Professor of Human Rights at the Harvard’s Kennedy School and the Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy and of its Afghanistan-Pakistan//
//program. [[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/afghanistan/docs/Afghanistan-PakistanTaskForce.pdf]]//Donnie)
While the insurgency …instrument of disbursement.



<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The cp’s public annoucnment solves resentment—that’s their key internal to stability</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Stewart et al 9</span></span> (**Rory Stewart** is the Ryan Professor of Human Rights at the Harvard’s Kennedy School and the Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy and of its Afghanistan-Pakistan
program. [[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/afghanistan/docs/Afghanistan-PakistanTaskForce.pdf]]//Donnie)//
//<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The U.S. policy …</span></span>of this Task Force.//

//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The cp solves the centralization aspects of the aff-it changes the strat</span></span>//
//<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Castonguay 10</span></span> (David, analyst of international affairs, seems like a good guy. “In Praise of Warlords” [[http://davidcastonguay.blogspot.com/|http://davidcastonguay.blogspot.com]]///Donnie
Instead, the solution lies within the Afghanis themselves and in particular the tribal system of the Pashtuns. <span class="underline">The <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">U.S. military must …will remain incoherent. </span></span>

CP is a key signal of resolve—even if the aff wins we are losing now that would only be because there is fear the US is not committed to the war which makes locals not want to co-operate-cp’s signal would solve this and allow us to beat back the insurgency
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Herman 10/20</span></span> (//<span style="font-style: normal;">Arthur Herman is a visiting scholar at AEI. “</span>//Al Qaeda on the Rise” [[http://www.aei.org/article/102682]]//Donnie)//
//Just when you thought it was safe to leave Iraq, al Qaeda is back--with a vengeance.//
//According to the// New York Times//, …playing a long shot?

==[[#Negative-DAs]]DAs== 
===[[#Negative-DAs-Japan Rearm Disad]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Japan Rearm Disad</span>=== 







<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Japan does not want to rearm they’re satisfied with American protection</span>



Asia for Educators 6/23




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**/10 (part of Columbia University, “Essay: An Overview of Japan's Postwar Defense Policy,” [[http://afe.easia.columbia.edu/japan/japanworkbook/fpdefense/artnine.htm]], 6/30/2010)**
Ironically, by the...in foreign affairs.


This is because the US Japan security alliance has been strengthened with new Japanese PM</span>



Kyodo News International 6/27




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**/10 [2ND LD: Japan, U.S. agree to deepen alliance, cooperate on Futenma, N. Korea 6.27.2010, [[http://www.istockanalyst.com/article/viewiStockNews/articleid/4254904]]]**
Japan and the United States...India and Russia.


Withdrawal force of US forces causes Japan to build its conventional & nuclear arsenal – makes arms race and war inevitable – destroys security commitment</span>



Khalilzad 98




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**[Zalmay Khalilzad, Policy Analyst at the Rand Corporation 1998 Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century]**
The third vital interest ...and possibly war.


Asian arms races will spark nuclear conflict</span>



Cimbala 8




<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**[Stephen Cimbala, Comparative Strategy, Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia, Vol. 27 #2, 2008, informaworld]**
The spread of nuclear weapons ... center of gravity (in the present century).14</span>
==[[#Negative-Ks :D :D :D]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ks :D :D :D </span>== 
===[[#Negative-Ks :D :D :D-GENDER!!!]]GENDER!!!=== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security discourse is predicated upon assumptions of the world that are hypermasculine—the affs discourse paints men as rational and women as irrational and evil—this culminates in patriarchy

**Wilcox 3** (Lauren Wilcox, Macalester CollegeSecurity Masculinity: The Gender-Security Nexus [[http://www.anselm.edu/NR/rdonlyres/584EAD25-FDAD-484B-AFA9-F8709DBB41FD/1242/Article20033.pdf]])

The process … this new paradigm..97




Try or die neg—environmental destruction and war are inevitable under patriarchy, that guarantees extinction

**Warren and Cady 96** Professor @ Macalester U 96 (Karen,., and Duane, Professor @ Hamline, Bringing peace home: feminism, violence, and nature, 1996, p.12-13)

Operationalized, the evidence … and global contexts.




Reject the aff—questioning the system they uphold is necessary to break down patriarchy in IR

**Wibben 4** (ANNICK T.R. WIBBEN Rockefeller Humanities Fellow Human Security

NCRW and CUNY Graduate Center Feminist International Relations: Old Debates and New Directions [[http://www.watsoninstitute.org/bjwa/archive/10.2/Feminist%20Theory/Wibben.pdf]])

To locate feminisms … relations with women.



Enframing is key-it’s not about the action the aff takes but why they justify it—the lens the aff looks through is a self-fulfilling prophecy and shape policy making

**Peterson** Professor in the School of Government and Public Policy University of Arizona & Runyan Professor and former Head, Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, University of Cincinnati 19**99** V. Spike & Anne Sisson Global Gender Issues Page 1-2




</span>



Whenever we study a topic, we do so through a lens that necessarily focuses our attention in particular ways.......


At the same time, the world we live in ("reality") shapes which lenses are available to us, what we see through them, and the likelihood of our using them in particular contexts.