----
[[toc]]
=[[#Affirmative]]Affirmative= 
==[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative]]PMC Affirmative== 
===[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative-Text]]Text=== 
The United States Supreme Court should rule that the United States federal government's contracts with private military companies performing combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan should be terminated on the ground that they violate international law by meeting the definition of the word "mercenary" under Article 47 of Protocol 1 of the Geneva Conventions.

===[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative-Inherency]]Inherency=== 

<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14pt;">Obama is increasing private security levels despite pledges not to </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Siddique, ’10__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Abubakar Siddique, Private U.S. Contractors Back In The Spotlight In Iraq, Afghanistan, January 8 2010, [[http://www.rferl.org/content/US_Use_Of_Private_Contractors_Back_In_Spotlight_In_Iraq_Afghanistan/1924419.html]]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Van Bijlert suggests that the employment... <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">accountable spending of money."</span></span></span>



===[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative-International Law Advantage]]International Law Advantage=== 
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">International law is inevitable but US engagement is critical to its effectiveness. Effective International law solves every impact </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; text-align: left;">__**I**__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">nstitute for </span>__**E**__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">nergy and</span> __**E**__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">nvironmental</span> __**R**__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">esearch</span>**__, ’02__** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, and the Lawyers Committee on Nuclear Policy, 2002, Rule of Power or Rule of Law? An Assessment of U.S. Policies and Actions Regarding Security-Related Treaties, May, [[http://www.ieer.org/reports/treaties/execsumm.pdf]]</span></span></span>


"The evolution of international law since World War II... and opted out of compliance."



<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">**PMC exemplify mercenaries under I’Law – Protocol 1 of the Geneva Conventions defines them as mercenaries because they threaten state’s monopoly on the use of force**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**__Salzman, ’08__,** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Zoe Saltzman, Clinical Contract Attorney, International Human Rights Clinic, Center for Human Rights and Global Justice, NYU School of Law, “Private Military Contractors and the taint of a Mercenary Reputation”, 40 N.Y.U. J. Int’L L. & Pol. 853 (2008), lexis)</span></span></span>


"In the next two Parts of the paper, I... taint of a mercenary reputation."

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And, an application of international norms leads to broader incorporation of the Geneva Convention </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; text-align: left;">__**Morgan, ’08**__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, Richard Morgan, Law Clerk, the Chambers of the Hon James E Baker, US Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces; Lieutenant (Junior Grade), USN; BA, BM 2002, University of Hartford; BA 2004, Hertford College, University of Oxford; JD 2007, Yale Law School, ARTICLE: Professional Military Firms under International Law, Summer, 2008, 9 Chi. J. Int'l L. 213, lexis</span></span></span>

"But there are several reasons why it may... three points from existing treaties."

====[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative-International Law Advantage-Environment Scenario]]Environment Scenario==== 

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Broader incorporation of international law solves biodiversity loss </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; text-align: left;">__**Glennon, ’90**__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, Michael, Board of Editors @ American Journal of Intl Law, Jan., 84 A.J.I.L. 1</span></span></span>

"It is possible to conclude that customary... protection by the UN General Assembly and various international conferences."

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Diner, ’94**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, </span></span><span class="CardsChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Diner, David N. B.S. Recipient. Ohio State University. J.D. Recipient. College of Law. Ohio State University. LL.M. The Judge Advocate General’s School. United States Army. Judge Advocate’s General’s Corps. United States Army. “The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who’s Endangering Whom?” Military Law Review. 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161. Winter, 1994. Lexis-Nexis.</span></span></span></span>

"No species has ever dominated its fellow... closer to the abyss"

====[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative-International Law Advantage-Leadership Scenario]]Leadership Scenario==== 

<span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Multiple factors make unipolarity unsustainable </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;">**__Haass, ’08__,** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Richard Haass President of the Council on Foreign Relations, Bottom of Form The Age of Nonpolarity What Will Follow U.S. Dominance, 2008, Foreign Affairs, May/June</span></span>

"But even if great-power rivals have not emerged... nonpolarity begets nonpolarity."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Unilateralism causes international and domestic backlash, terrorism, and mass proliferation resulting in isolationism </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Ikenberry, ’02__** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">G. John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002 ("America's Imperial Ambition – Foreign Affairs) p. lexis</span></span></span>

"Unchecked U.S. power, short of... history will repeat itself."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14pt;">Proliferation causes nuclear war – It uniquely increases the risk and magnitude of conflicts </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Sokolski, ’09__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Henry, Executive Director of the Nonproliferation Policy Education Center and serves on the US congressional Commission on the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism, “Avoiding a nuclear crowd,” Policy Review, June/July</span></span></span>


"At a minimum, such developments... critics, would ever grant."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Withdrawal of US leadership causes multiple nuclear conflicts </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="Author-Date">**__Liber, ’05__** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lieber, Professor of Government and International Affairs at Georgetown University 2005, Robert J., The American Era: Power and Strategy for the 21st Century, p. 53-54</span></span></span>

"Withdrawal from foreign commitments might... dominating an entire region."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">U.S. credibility in international law is key to leadership – It stabilized US power, reduces backlash against unilateralism and increases overall credibility </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Krisch, ’03**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">,</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nico. Senior Fellow @ the Center for International Studies @ NYU Law. Unilateralism and US Foreign Policy – edited by Malone and Khong. Pp. 62-63</span></span></span>


"However, when international instruments reflect U.S. policy... loss of influence on the other."


<span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The US must exercise positive multilateral leadership to maintain peace and stability </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;">**__Maynes, ’99__** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">World Policy Journal, Charles William Maynes president of the Eurasia Foundation 1999</span></span>

"For most of the postwar period... leaders of that reality."

====[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative-International Law Advantage-Bioterror Scenario]]Bioterror Scenario==== 

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Broader incorporation of the Geneva Conventions prevent the development and use of chemical and biological weapons </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="TagsChar">**GCSP 5**</span> [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Geneva Centre for Security Policy, “Biological and Chemical Weapons Seminar,” June 2005, <[[http://www.gcsp.ch/e/meetings/Security_Challenges/WMD/Meeting_Conf/2005/BC%20Weapons%20Seminar/summary.htm]]>]KM</span></span></span>

"On 9-10 June 2005, the GCSP hosted... possession of both chemical and biological weapons."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Extinction </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="TagsChar">__**Ochs 2**__</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY” Richard June 9th [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)KM]] </span></span></span>
"Of all the weapons of mass destruction... HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE."


===[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative-Afghan Stability Advantage]]Afghan Stability Advantage=== 
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14pt;">The number of PMCs in Afghanistan is increasing – This causes civilian backlash and hurts U.S. security objectives </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__HRF, 6-18__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Human Rights First, Human Rights Watch Group based in D.C., “Group Urges Commission to Advance Accountability for Private Military Contractors, Protect Civilians in Iraq and Afghanistan,” June 18th 2010, [[http://www.humanrightsfirst.org/media/usls/2010/alert/624/]]</span></span></span>

"Washington, DC - Human Rights First today... undermines the U.S. mission."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">PMC’s annihilate local support for American presence </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__**Kosiak, ’08**__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> Steven M. Kosiak, 2008, Vice President for Budget Studies at Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, frequent speaker on defense issues, providing expert testimony before House and Senate Committees, and has been published in multiple major newspapers, “Military Manpower for the Long Haul,” CSBA Publication, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.csbaonline.org/4Publications/PubLibrary/R.20081015.Military_Manpower_/R.20081015.Military_Manpower_.pdf]]</span></span></span></span>

"Although the precise number of private contractors... undermines the US military's efforts."


<span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Preventing civilian casualties is critical to cut off the Taliban’s support base, preventing resurgence </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;">__**Jones, ’07**__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, Seth G. Jones, Ph.D. and M.A. in political science, University of Chicago; A.B., Bowdoin College, “Afghanistan's Local Insurgency”, 1-31, [[http://www.rand.org/commentary/013107IHT.html]]</span></span>

"The rising violence and the near certainty... local nature of the insurgency."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">PMCs undermine our military war effort and roles in Afghanistan </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; text-align: left;">**__Schulman, ’10__** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Daniel Schulman is Mother Jones' Washington-based news editor. Are Contractors Undermining US War Efforts? — By Daniel Schulman | Thu Jan. 21, 2010 11:56 AM PST [[http://motherjones.com/mojo/2010/01/are-contractors-undermining-us-war-efforts]]</span></span></span>

"According to the CRS... other agencies working in Iraq and Afghanistan."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Lack of local support means our counter-insurgency strategy will fall in Afghanistan </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; text-align: left;">**__Khan, ’09__,** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Daud Khan, A Afghan political analyst and a journalist based in Afghanistan (“US Winning Afghans' Hearts and Minds?” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1248188004863&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs%2FMAELayout]]</span>)</span></span></span>

"Now, the US administration has been... all those who are ready to talk."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 14pt; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Taliban resurgence to capture Kandahar and Afghanistan instability will collapse Pakistan – Causes fundamentalist takeover and escalating global nuclear conflict </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; text-align: left;">**__Morgan, ’07__** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Stephen Morgan, Former British Labour Party Exectutive Committee Member, Political Psychologist, 3/4/2007 [Stephen, ""Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?"," [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]]</span></span></span>

"However events may prove him sorely wrong... pitted against the US."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14pt;">Pakistan coup leads to a nuclear shootout with India and extremist takeover in Saudi Arabia and Egypt </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Ricks, ’01__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Thomas E. Ricks, Washington Post Staff Writer, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences; Some Fear Regional Destabilization, Retribution Against U.S.,” 10-21, Lexis</span></span></span>

"The prospect of Pakistan being taken over by Islamic extremists... a defense analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14pt;">Pakistan-India conflict leads to extinction </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Fai, ’01__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Executive Director of the Kashmiri American Council, “The most dangerous place,”7-8, lexis</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">"The foreign policy of the United States in South ... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention."</span></span>


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Takeover of Saudi Arabia cuts off their oil supply </span>**
**__Cohen, ’06__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ariel, heritage’s finest, “reducing US dependence on middle eastern oil” [[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Features/NationalSecurity/bg1926.cfm%204/7|http://www.heritage.org/Research/Features/NationalSecurity/bg1926.cfm 4/7]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">"Even more frightening... regime could not be ruled out."</span>


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The impact is extinction </span>**
**__Riddoch, ’04__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dr. Malcolm, Faculty of Communications and Creative Industries, Edith Cowan University, June 19, 2004, [[http://www.melbourne.indymedia.org/news/2004/06/72000_comment.php]] </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt;">﻿</span>"There are lots of recent... companions famine and pestilence."</span>
===[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative-CMR Advantage]]CMR Advantage=== 
<span style="display: block; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">﻿</span>

**Civil military relations are on the brink – budget challenges, Afghanistan, and lasting tension from the Bush years**

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: left;">**<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US Fed News</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span></span>** 4-9__-__<span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**‘9**</span>__</span> (“Panel Discusses Civil-Military Relations At Fort Leavenworth,” Lexis). Kohn is a leading Civil-Military scholar.</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">"The four areas where Kohn sees potential civil-military problems... Connely said."</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">PMCs demolish civil military capabilities—they make the military chain of command obsolete and take the military out of the states control and into the private sector </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite">**__Schreier and Caparini 05__.** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Fred R. Schreier is a consultant with the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF). He received a B.A. in international relations from the Graduate Institute of International Studies (HEI), Geneva, and a M.A.L.D. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Medford, USA. He has served in various command and general staff positions and in different functions in the Ministry of Defense of Switzerland. Marina Caparini is Senior Fellow at the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF), where she heads working groups on civil society and internal security services (police, security intelligence and border management). She is also a doctoral candidate in the Department of War Studies, King’s College, University of London., “GENEVA CENTRE FOR THE DEMOCRATIC CONTROL OF ARMED FORCES (DCAF) OCCASIONAL PAPER - №6 Privatising Security: Law, Practice and Governance of Private Military and Security Companies”, </span></span></span><span class="cite">[[http://smallarmssurvey.org/files/portal/issueareas/security/security_pdf/2005_Schreier_Caparini.pdf]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">) pg. 61-62</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">"Maintaining proper control of the military is... relations already troubled."</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14pt;">**The U.S. is the global model for civil-military balance** </span>
<span class="CiteChar">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">Cronin 8</span>**</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">– Patrick M. Cronin, Director of the Institute for National Strategic Studies at the National Defense University, September 2008, “Irregular Warfare: New Challenges for Civil-Military Relations,” online: </span>[[http://smallwarsjournal.com/documents/iwcivmilrelations.pdf]]</span></span>

"In the search for the right balance... conversation that should be continued."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">CMR is critical to mitigating conflicts and your disads – improves the effectiveness of military, intelligence, and police forces. Empirically proven. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__**Bruneau & Matei 8**__ **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'AdvPS6F00','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Thomas C. Bruneau is Program Manager for Latin America and Florina Cristiana Matei is a Research </span>
<span style="font-family: 'AdvPS6F00','serif'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Associate at the Center for Civil–Military Relations, Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, Californi, //Democratization//, Vol.15, No.5, December 2008, pp.909–929, [[http://iis-db.stanford.edu/evnts/5541/Bruneau_final_file.pdf]] )</span></span>

"Although it may seem counter-intuitive increased democratic... with more public support."


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 14pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Flawed CMR creates ‘military war gods’ – goes global, kills democracy, World War 3, and ends in extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">__<span style="font-weight: normal;">Cohen 97</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Cohen, Eliot A. "Civil-military relations." //Orbis// 41, no. 2 (Spring97 1997): 177. //MasterFILE Premier//, EBSCO//host// (accessed June 27, 2010))</span></span></span>

"No one at the conference suggested... security cannot be taken for granted."

===[[#Affirmative-PMC Affirmative-Solvency]]Solvency=== 


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 14pt;">Ruling on any other grounds fails absent binding international frameworks – fluid structure of PMC’s means international law is key </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**__Nimkar, ’09__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ruta Nimkar, “From Bosnia to Baghdad The Case for Regulating Private Military and Security Companies,” 2009, [[http://www.princeton.edu/jpia/past-issues-1/2009/1.pdf]]</span></span></span>

"The fluid structure of PMSC's... implement in terms of the treaty."







=[[#Negative]]Negative= 
==China War Good== 
===1NC Evidence=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">1. War with China inevitable- </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">A. Economic competition </span>**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Mearsheimer 05</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[John, professor of political science at the University of Chicago, “CLASH OF THE TITANS”, Jan/Feb, [[http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/A0034.pdf]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"China cannot rise peacefully... contain China's power"</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">B. All recent Chinese actions prove- US experts were consistently wrong</span>**</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Nyquist</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, renowned expert in geopolitics and international relations, </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">05,</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[JR Geopolitical Global Analyst “Recent China Revelations” Weekly Column July 1] [ct] [[http://www.financialsense.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0701.html|[2]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">﻿</span>"China's war preparations are deliberate... personal or press freedom"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**2. War is better now than later**-</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**First – Turn – Naval Power** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**A. China will run us out of the pacific– if we don't fight now we'll lose naval superiority**</span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kaplan ’05</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, Robert D., author of “Imperial Grunts: The American Military on the Ground”, correspondent for the Atlantiic, “How We Would Fight China”, http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200506/kaplan</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"For some time no navy or air force has posed a threat to the United States... moving ships in the Pacific"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">B. Naval power key to solve multiple scenarios for conflict </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">CONWAY ET AL 07</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, [[http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]])]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"We will employ global reach, persistent... population from attack."</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Second- Turn- prolif </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">A. China will modernize to counter the US </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Jannuzi 2K</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[Frank, Missile Defense and East Asia: Downside and Risks, [[http://www.icasinc.org/2000/2000f/2000ffsj.html]]] </span></span>
"If China were to increase its strategic... us greater security?"

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">B. Causes prolif</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Sanders and Jing-Dong 2K</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Phillip and Yuan, (China's Strategic ForceModernization: Issues and Implications in Proliferation Challenges and Nonproliferation Opportunities for New Administrations. OccasionalPaper No. 4. Center for Nonproliferation Studies, July, [[http://cns.miis.edu/cns/projects/eanp/conf/op4_sjd.pdf]])</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"Because this scenario involves a significant expansion of China's... presence in Northeast Asia."</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">C. Proliferation makes extinction inevitable </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Taylor ’02</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Stuart Taylor Jr., Senior Writer – The National Journal, Contributing Editor – Newsweek, 9-16-2002, Legal Times, Lexis</span> </span>
"Unless we get serious about... Nonproliferation Treaty."


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Third- turn- nanotech- </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">A. China is modernizing to develop nano weapons to use against the US- this outweighs nuclear war</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Navrozov 07</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[Lev, the winner of the Albert Einstein Prize for outstanding intellectual achievements, and more than twenty of his articles are in the United States Congressional Record. He is also president of the nonprofit Center for the Survival of Western Democracies, “Nanotech and Sun Tzu: China's secret weapons?”, Sept 3, [[http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2007/lev8_31.asp]]] </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"In 1945, the ultimate super weapons was the atom bomb... govern a territory of the world."</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">B. Nanoweapon use outweighs nuclear war, causes prolif, and destroys the biosphere</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">TREDER AND PHOENIX, 8</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">(Mike , Executive Director of CRN, BS Biology, University of Washington, Research Fellow with the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies, a consultant to the Millennium Project of the American Council for the United Nations University AND Chris Phoenix, CRN’s Director of Research, has studied nanotechnology for more than 15 years. BS, Symbolic Systems, MS, Computer Science, Stanford University. Center For Responsible Nanotechnology, “Dangers of Molecular Manufacturing,” Last Updated Feb 7, [[http://www.crnano.org/dangers.htm]]) </span></span>
"Nanotech weapons would be extremely powerful... economic solution can develop."


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">3. No risk of your impacts– as long as we fight before China overtakes us, we’ll win easily- </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">A. One Trident submarine can deal with the entire Chinese arsenal</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;"> **7 times over**</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Godwin 2K</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, Prof Intl Affairs National War College, visiting Prof at Chinese National Defense University, 2k (Paul HB Washington Journal of Modern China. China's Defense Modernization: Aspirations and Capabilities [[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/symposia/pacific2000/godwinpaper.htm]]) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"Although definitely a menacing capability, China... would seem to be assured."</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">B. The chances of China winning are slim to none. Its air force wouldn’t make it off the ground, we would sink the entire navy, take out its command and control facilities, topple the PRC and neutralize the Chinese threat for decades while minimizing US casualties. All experts vote neg</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Ross 02</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, Professor of Political Science, Boston College (Robert S., Navigating the Taiwan Straight: Deterrence, Escalation Dominance, and U.S.-China Relations International Security, Vol. 27, No. 2 Fall, pp. 48–85) </span></span>
"Chinese leaders acknowledge... with them party rule."

===**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">2NC War Inevitable Extensions</span>**=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Chinese energy concerns will inevitably spark international conflict </span>**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Bajpaee 05</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, Researcher for Civic Exchange, HK-based think-tank and for Intl. Inst for Strategic Studies, Chietigi China's Quest for Energy, PINR, February 25, 2005, [[http://www.isn.ethz.ch/news/sw/details.cfm?ID=10840]]) //khirn// </span></span>
"As China has made... is limited to areas where China's vital strategic interests are not threatened."
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">China is preparing for a war with the U.S. – nationalization and resource tensions prove – the only question is whether we will prepare as well </span>**
//<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">CNN 3</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">(“China preparing for future fight with US”, June 27, 2003, [[http://www.rense.com/general38/conflict.htm]]) </span></span>//khirn
"State Council think-tank... said a Beijing-based party source."
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Competition for power makes war inevitable </span>**

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Friedberg ’05</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[Aaron L. Friedberg, professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University, and served as Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs and Director of Policy Planning in the Office of the Vice President, “The Future of U.S.-China Relations”, published Fall 2005. [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/is3002_pp007-045_friedberg.pdf]] ]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"The collision between the expanding interests... to be difficult to implement."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Nationalism makes war inevitable </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Brenner 3/22</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[Ian Bremmer, president of the Eurasia Group, in Prospect Magazine, “China vs. America: Fight of the Century”, 3/22/2010. [[http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2010/03/china-vs-america-fight-of-the-century/]] ] </span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"Put bluntly, the Chinese leadership... stood on China."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">﻿</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">China’s quest for influence will spur conflict </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kantor, ’06,</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[Elizabeth Kantor, writer for Human Events, in an interview with Jed Babbin, former deputy undersecretary of defense. “Exclusive Interview: China Bent on War”, 5/22/2006, [[http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=15038]] ] </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"Does China really want a war... feed its industrial power."</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Insider sources prove China is gearing for war </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Smith, ’05</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[Charles R. Smith, columnist for Newsmax, “China Wants War: PLA General Calls for Nuclear Attacks on the U.S.”, 7/15/2005, [[http://archive.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2005/7/17/170416.shtml]] </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"Reporters from the Financial Times... made by General Zhu."</span>

===<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NC Nanotech Impact</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">And, a Nano accident will end life throughout the universe</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">**ETC 03**</span>__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">(Action Group on Erosion, Technology and Concentration Atomtech: Technologies Converging at the Nano-scale January 2003) [[http://www.etcgroup.org/documents/TheBigDown.pdf]] </span></span>
"GRAY GOO What if nanobots... all the planets combined."


===2NC We'll Win/No Impact Extensions=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">And, no risk of nuclear conflict, the US could destroy all of China’s nukes before they got off the ground </span>**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Lieber and Press, ’06</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, (Keir, the author of War and the Engineers: The Primacy of Politics Over Technology, is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame. Dary, the author of Calculating Credibility: How Leaders Assess Military Threats, is Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, Foreign Affairs, March/April)</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">"China's nuclear arsenal... nuclear-armed cruise."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">More adaptable navy and air force means we win – now is key </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Gates, ’09</span>__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, “Submitted Statement on DoD Challenges to the Senate Armed Services Committee”, 1/27/2009, [[http://www.defense.gov/Speeches/Speech.aspx?SpeechID=1337]] ] / </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">"As we know, China is modernizing... one in the short- to mid-term."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">We’ll win – Spending and weapons development </span>**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Eland, ’03</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">– , Cato Institute (Ivan, January 23, “Is Chinese Military Modernization a Threat to the United States?”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa465.pdf)"</span></span>__ </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">"The Bush administration's... China in the dust."</span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Technological gap is too large for China to win a war in the short term</span>** </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">__Bandow, ’09__</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[Doug Bandow, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, former assistant to Regan, “China’s Military Rise Means End of US Hegemony?”, 6/6/2009, appeared in the Korea Times on 5/5/2009, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10175 ] / </span></span>
"Moreover, China's... simply capable of deterring America."
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Military capability of the US is still ahead – now is key </span>**

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Thompson ’10</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Drew Thompson, staff writer for Foreign Policy Magazine, “Think Again: China’s Military – It’s not time to panic. Yet.”, March/April 2010, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/think_again_chinas_military]] ] </span>
"But it's probably too soon for Americans to panic... force on the planet."


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tabstops: list .5in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">And, our air force will assure victory – </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Shlapak et al. ’09</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, Senior International Policy Analyst</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[David A. “A Question of Balance: Political Context and Military Aspects of the China-Taiwan Dispute,” The research described in this report was sponsored by the Smith Richardson Foundation and was conducted under the auspices of the International Security and Defense Policy Center within the RAND National Security Research Division (NSRD). NSRD conducts research and analysis for the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, the Unified Commands, the defense agencies, the Department of the Navy, the Marine Corps, the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Intelligence Community, allied foreign governments, and foundations, RAND, [[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2009/RAND_MG888.pdf]] Access Date: July 15, 2010] </span></span>
"It has been the case that PLAAF... USAF counterparts."

==Russia DA== 
Uniqueness - US Russia relations are high now but have room to decline - Afghanistan is the key area of cooperation
Washington Post, citing the Russian Deputy Foreign Minister, 2-1-11, ("Russia's Ryabkov on U.S. Russia Relations: 'We can offer tangible results, and we will do more in the future'" <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/01/31/AR2011013105759.html]] )</span>


"Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov, who oversees... might be needed until Afghanistan can sustain itself."

Link - U.S withdrawal guts relations, guts heg, and sparks conflict
Hahn 09, (Gordon M., senior researcher at the Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor at the Graduate School of International Policy Studies, senior researcher at the Center for Terrorism and Intellegence Studies, and foreign policy analyst, "U.S. Russia Relations and the war against Jihadism." <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p 8-9</span>


"However, there is some space between U.S. and Russian interests if it comes to... can only benefit the region's jihadists."
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 14pt;">Impact – Relations solve every impact—also solves warming </span></span>**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Collins & Rojansky, ‘10</span>__</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">– * U.S. Ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001, AND deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment (8/18/10, James F. Collins, Matthew Rojansky, Foreign Policy, “Why Russia Matters,” <span style="color: #3b5998; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?]]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> </span></span>

"A year and a half after Barack Obama... reserves of freshwater than continental Europe."

==Specific Rounds== 
===<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Central Gwinnett﻿</span>=== 
====Central Gwinnett Round 2 vs Houston MY==== 
Okinawa Affirmative: Patriarchy Advantage, Ecocide Advantage
1NC: XO CP, START Ptx, Deterrence DA, Patriarchy D, Util, Enviro D
2NC: START, Patriarchy D
1NR: Util, Enviro D
2NR: START, Patriarchy D, Util, Enviro D
====﻿Central Gwinnett Round 3 vs Milton ??==== 
Afghanistan COIN Affirmative: Overstretch Advantage, Afghan Stability Advantage
1NC: Security K, START Ptx, XO CP, Heg Bad, Mid East War Turns
2NC: START, Mid East War Turns
1NR: Heg Bad
2NR: Mid East War Turns, Heg Bad
====﻿Central Gwinnett Round 5 vs Carrollton ??==== 
Afghanistan COIN Affirmative: Economy Advantage, Israel Advantage
1NC: "Should" T, Security K, START Ptx, XO CP, Econ D, Mid East War Turns
2NC: Security, XO, START, Mid East War Turns
1NR: "Should" T, Econ D
2NR: START, Econ D, Mid East War Turns
====﻿Central Gwinnett Semis vs Houston ??==== 
Okinawa Affirmative: Japan Relations Advantage, Freedom Advantage
1NC: Security K, START Ptx, XO CP, China War Turns, Util
2NC: XO, START, China War Turns
1NR: Security, Util
2NR: China War Turns, Util

===﻿Chattahoochee=== 
====Chattahoochee Round 1 vs Calhoun BK==== 
Depleted Uranium Bullets Affirmative: Cancer Advantage, Genocide Advantage, No War Contention
1NC: A-Spec, T-Substantial, Kappeler K, XO CP, START Ptx, Cancer D, Genocide D, Util Good, Yes War
2NC: XO CP, START Ptx, T-Substantial
1NR: Cancer D, Genocide D, Util Good, Yes War
2NR: T-Substantial


====﻿Chatthoochee Round 3 vs Westminster LP==== 
Korea Affirmative: Korea War, China Relations
1NC: A-Spec, Kappeler K, XO CP, START Ptx, Korea War D, China War Turns
2NC: START Ptx, Kappeler K
1NR: China War Turns, Korea War D
2NR: START Ptx, China War Turns, Korea War D

===﻿Calhoun=== 
====﻿Calhoun Round 4 vs Pace ??==== 
South Korea Affirmative: Korea War, Regionalism
1NC: A-spec, Kappeler K, XO CP, Prez Powers, Korea War D, China War Turns
2NC: A-spec, China War Turns, Korea War D
1NR: Kappeler K
2NR: China War Turns, Korea War D

====﻿Calhoun Quarters vs Hooch AC==== 
COIN Affirmative: Heg, Insurgency
1NC: T-Noncombat, Kappeler K, Multiplank CP(Germany, Means test Medicare, Silk Road CP), Taliban Takeover DA, Heg D, Insurgency D
2NC: Multiplank CP, Taliban Takeover DA
1NR: Kappeler K
2NR: Multiplan CP, Taliban Takeover DA


===John's Creek=== 
====John's Creek Round 2 vs Milton AQ==== 
Japan Affirmative: Environment, Warming, US-Japan Alliance
1NC: Kappeler K, F-22 CP, PGS DA, Environment D, Warming D, China War Good, US-Japan Alliance D
2NC: Kappeler K, China War Good
1NR: Environment D, Warming D, US-Japan Alliance D,
2NR: Kappeler K

====John's Creek Round 4 vs Hooch KK==== 
COIN Affirmative: Heg, Insurgency
1NC: T-Noncombat, Kappeler K, Multiplank CP(Germany retrain and commit to COIN, Means test Medicare, Silk Road, Remove PMCs, Commit to Stay), Taliban Takeover DA, Heg Bad, Insurgency D
2NC: Kappeler K, Heg Bad
1NR: Insurgency D
2NR: Kappeler K


====John's Creek Round 5 vs Westminster HH==== 
South Korea Affirmative: North Korea War, China
1NC: A-spec, Kappeler K, XO CP, Prez Powers DA, PGS DA, China War Good, North Korea War D
2NC: Kappeler K, PGS DA, China War Good
1NR: North Korea War D
2NR: China War Good, North Korea War D
﻿ 





===﻿Glenbrooks=== 
====﻿Glenbrooks Round 1 vs Nevada Union LF==== 
Afganistan Total Withdraw: Imperialism Stuff
1NC: Kappeler K, XO CP, Prez Powers DA, Util Good, Heg Good, Imperialism D
2NC: Kappeler K, Util Good
1NR: Heg Good
2NR: Kappeler K

====﻿Glenbrooks Round 3 vs Niles West PV==== 
Afganistan COIN Affirmative: Terrorism, Insurgency
1NC: T-noncombat, Multiplank CP, Taliban Takeover DA, PGS DA, Terrorism D, Insurgency D
2NC: PGS DA, Terrorism D, Insurgency D
1NR: Taliban Takeover DA
2NR: PGS DA, Terrorism D, Insurgency

====﻿Glenbrooks Round 6 vs Westminster WM==== 
Afghanistan COIN Affirmative: Heg, Warming, Afghan Stability
1NC: T-noncombat, Kappeler K, Multiplank CP, Credibility DA, Mid East War Good, Warming D, Heg D
2NC: Mid East War Good, Warming D, Heg D
1NR: Credibility DA
2NR: Mid East War Good, Warming D, Heg D

====﻿Glenbrooks Round 7 vs Westwood KoLo==== 
Okinawa Affirmative: Alliance, Warming, North Korea
1NC: A-spec, Kappeler K, XO CP, Prez Powers DA, China War Good, Warming D, Rearm D
2NC: Kappeler K, China War Good
1NR: Warming D, North Korea D
2NR: Kappeler K

===Fayette=== 
====Fayette Round 1 vs Alpharetta ??==== 
South Korea Affirmative: Regionalism, Korea War
1NC: Security K, XO CP, Prez Power DA, PGS DA, Korea War D, Prolif D, Warming D
2NC: Security K, PGS DA
1NR: Korea War D, Prolif D, Warming D
2NR: PGS DA, Korea War D, Prolif D, Warming D

====﻿Fayette Round 4 vs Alpharetta ??==== 
Kuwait Affirmative: Imperialism, Freedom
1NC: Kappeler K, XO CP, Prez Powers DA, PGS DA, Util Good
2NC: Kappeler K
1NR: Util Good, PGS DA
2NR: Kappeler K

===Emory Barkley Forum=== 
====﻿Emory Barkley Forum Round 2 vs Central Catholic DC==== 
TNWs Affirmative: Iran Prolif, Nuclear Weapons Free Zone, Speed bad FW
1NC: Kappeler K, PGS DA, Case D
2NC: Kappeler K, Case D
1NR: PGS DA
2NR: PGS DA, Case D

====﻿Emory Barkley Forum Round 3 vs GBN BH==== 
COIN Affirmative: Heg, Pakistan, Obama Cred
1NC: T-noncombat, Kappeler K, Condition CP, PGS DA, Withdrawal DA, Heg bad, Pakistan D, Cred D
2NC: Heg bad, Pakistan D, Cred D
1NR: PGS DA
2NR: Heg bad, Pakistan D, Cred D

====﻿Emory Barkley Forum Round 6 vs Chattahoochee KK==== 
COIN Affirmative: Heg, Insurgency
1NC: T-noncombat, Condition CP, PGS DA, Heg Bad, Insurgency D
2NC: Heg bad, Insurgency D
1NR: PGS DA
2NR: Heg bad, Insurgency D


===Alpharetta=== 
====﻿Alpharetta Round 1 vs Alpharetta ??==== 
COIN Affirmative: Heg, Pakistan
1NC: T-noncombat, Heg Advantage CP, RMA DA, Russia DA, Heg D, Pakistan D, Terror Good
2NC: Russia DA, RMA DA, Pakistan D, Terror Good
1NR: Heg Advantage CP, Heg D
2NR: Russia DA, Heg Advantage CP, Pakistan D, Heg D

====﻿Alpharetta Round 3 vs Chattahoochee ??==== 
Okinawa Affirmative: Alliance
1NC: A-spec, Kappeler K, PGS DA, Warming D, Korea War D, Indo Pak War D, China War Good
2NC: Rape D, China War Good, Warming D
1NR: More Warming D, Korea War D, Indo Pak War D
2NR: China War Good, Warming D, Rape D





====[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]====