[[toc]]

[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Back to Main Page]]

=Guernica Neg= 



==Author PIC== 

===1NC - Caucus (vs. Millard South GS)=== 

Text: We advocate the entirety of the 1AC except for their framing of their painting in historical contexts and calling it Guernica.

By constructing Guernica-by-Picasso as a monument and locus for change they undermine the potential for deviations and considerations of the possibilities surrounding the painting – by affirming the painting that we stand in front of as a plagiarized “Guernica-by-none” or as an entirely new painting you open up the possibility for real change and a modification of society.
Mimi and Erin in right now (the text of the card can be found here: http://www.crimethinc.com/texts/harbinger/practical.php)

We have all been taught from our youth that… …appropriating the thinker's material as the property of humanity.



===1NR=== 

Their focus on Guernica as painted by Picasso destroys the possibility for change and deviations, turning case because the hegemonic status quo is reinforced – vote neg to kill Picasso and embrace a death of their Authors – the counterplan solves case better.
Mimi and Erin in right now (you can find the full text in a book called Image, Music, Text, dml)

The removal of the Author (one could… …his [or her] hypostases—reason, science, law.


==Case Answers== 

===1NC - Caucus (vs. Millard South GS)=== 

Critique has become commodified. The aff attempts to use their painting to create change – this will fail because their so-called “radical break” from the system isn’t radical – art has lost its power to create change. Their postmodern approach is simply an extension of modernism.
Giroux 8 (Alexandra, Master’s degree in European Studies from The Hague School of Higher European Studies, “The break of post-modernism”, http://www.alexandragiroux.net/does-post-modernism-constitute-a-break-from-modernism, dml)

Now that these different concepts… …like the avant-garde was, between modernism and postmodernism.


The power of radical criticism is gone – the discursive economy of cultural production has absorbed all possibilities for change. All critique occurs within this economy. Even radical postmodernism and avant-garde works of art like the aff have been coopted – the only way to create change is to subvert and critique dominant discourses.
Mann 99 (Paul, critical scholar, has written dozens of articles on the effects of critique, Masocriticism, the SUNY series in postmodern culture, “Preface,” pg x-xii, dml)

Even so, the first chapter, the text… …itself should not be mistaken for productive self-criticism.



===2NC=== 


Their idea that language is an empty conduit for discourse to shape is wrong – this is a normative conception of discourse that ignores the reality that much of traditional communication is ineffective.
Schlag 90 (Pierre, doesn’t like law professors very much yet still is one, Stanford Law Review, November, Lexis)

One answer is that normative legal… …the participants in constructing communication.


This means that the arguments that they will make in the 1AR about how their discussion in front of Guernica has tangible benefits on the world are fundamentally untrue. They rely on pure persuasive power to reap their discursive advantages – this ignores that their stories will never have any effect due to their reliance on traditional modes of communication.
the autonomous a.f.r.i.k.a.-group 98 (communication guerrillas, “What about Communication Guerrilla?”, http://www.copyriot.com/unefarce/no1/artikel/cg.htm, dml)

Traditional radical politics strongly rely on the… …into consideration within the framework of radical politics.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]