Email me at [[mailto:apeter657@gmail.com|apeter657@gmail.com]] for further cite requests
[[toc]]
=﻿Affirmative= 
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">WE PROPOSE THE FOLLOWING:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE ITS PRECISION WEAPONS IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN.</span>**

**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONTENTION 1 IS INHERENCY:</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">NEW PRECISION WEAPONS ARE CURRENTLY BEING USED IN IRAQ AND AFGHANSTAN.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">DEFENSE UPDATE 2k11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (“Anti-Tank Weapons become Multi-purpose.” January 3.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://defense-update.com/features/2010/december/infantry_missiles.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="background: yellow;">Man portable,…</span>. Lebanon war in 2006. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">ALTHOUGH CURRENT WIKI LEAKS HAVE EXPOSED SOME ATROCITIES – THE MEDIA DOWNPLAYS ITS EFFECTS.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THEISSEN 2k10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – member of the White House senior staff under President George W. Bush, Marc A. Thiessen served as chief speechwriter to the president and to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. Prior to joining the Bush administration, Thiessen spent more than six years as spokesman and senior policy adviser to Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman Jesse Helms (R-N.C.). He is a weekly columnist for the //Washington Post//, and his articles can be found in many major publications. His book on the Central Intelligence Agency's interrogation program (Marc. “Stop Downplaying WikiLeaks Damage.” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://blog.american.com/?p=23745]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Last week, </span><span style="background: yellow; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">the word had </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">….. has decided against publishing their names due to the <span style="color: windowtext;">[[@https://mail.aei.org/exchweb/bin/redir.asp?URL=http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20101206/ap_on_go_ca_st_pe/us_wikileaks_secret_sites|sensitive nature of the information]]</span>. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">OBSTACLES IN INTELLIGENCE GATHERING MAKES PRECISION WARFARE IMPOSSIBLE.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">DILANIAN 2k11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – staffwriter @ LA Times (Ken. “US counter-terrorism agents still hamstrung b data-sharing failures.” October 4. <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://articles.latimes.com/2010/oct/04/nation/la-naw-terrorism-data-100510]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">It frustrates me," said former ….__<span style="background: yellow;"> agencies to share data</span>.__ </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">IT’S EMPIRICALLY PROVEN FROM THE WAR IN IRAQ AND AFGHANSTIAN.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONETTA 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - co-director of the Project on Defense Alternatives (PDA). Prior to joining PDA, Mr. Conetta was a Research Fellow of the <span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://www.idds.org/|Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies]]</span> (IDDS) and also served for three years as editor of the IDDS journal //Defense and Disarmament Alternatives//, and the //Arms Control Reporter// (Carl. Disappearing the Dead Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Idea of a 'New Warfare.'" <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.comw.org/pda/0402rm9.html]]</span>)</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="background: yellow;">The precision of weapon</span>…… wait for future victims. </span>


__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONTENTION 2 IS TECHNO-WAR:</span>__

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">NEW TECHNOLOGY CAN’T GENERATE QUICK VICTORIES AND LOW CIVILIAN CASUALITIES.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">MALSCHE 2k8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - director of Malsch TechnoValuation, an independent consultant and science writer on technology and society, founded in Utrecht, the Netherlands in 1999. She has graduated in Physics from the University of Utrecht in 1991 and specialized in Environmental Impact Assessment and Science and Technology Studies (Ineke. “Precision Warfare is Not Bloodless Remote Control.” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.thebrokeronline.eu/en/Magazine/articles/Remote-control]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Remote control warfare <span style="background: yellow;">….. can be fought virtually and bloodlessly.</span> </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THE EXPECTATION OF PRECISION WEAPONS TO REDUCE DEATHS CAUSES THE STATE TO USE MORE WEAPONS.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">MALSCHE 2k8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - director of Malsch TechnoValuation, an independent consultant and science writer on technology and society, founded in Utrecht, the Netherlands in 1999. She has graduated in Physics from the University of Utrecht in 1991 and specialized in Environmental Impact Assessment and Science and Technology Studies (Ineke. “Precision Warfare is Not Bloodless Remote Control.” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.thebrokeronline.eu/en/Magazine/articles/Remote-control]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Illusion of bloodless war</span>
<span style="background: yellow; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Technological trends give the false …… weapons, such as cluster munitions and carpet bombing? </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">ONGOING WARFARE MAKES LEGITIMATE POLITICAL PRAXIS IMPOSSIBLE.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Virilio 2k2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - Director of the Ecole Speciale d’Architecutre @ Paris (Paul Virilio. “Desert Screen: War at the Speed of Light.” pg. 43-44 Ann)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">P.V.: The threat is that of fusion and ….. __arrive nor fend off the attack.__ </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THIS SETS THE FRAMEWORK FOR PLANETARY ANNIHILATION.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Kellner 2k8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, George F. Kneller Chair in the Philosophy of Education, UCLA(Douglas. "Preface The Ideology of HIgh-Tech/Postmodern War vs. the Reality of Messy Wars." <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/essays/2008_Kellner_MessyWarPreface_ver29052008FINAL.pdf]]</span> Ann)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Hence, phenomenal new …. about war environment. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONTINUED US MILITARY PRESENCE GUARNATEES VIOLENCE – THE ABILITY TO DESTROY ANYTHING IN THE WORLD INSTANTANEOUSLY WITH MIINIMAL EFFORT.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">REDHEAD 2k4</span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – Professor of Media and Culture Studies @ University of Brighton (Steve. “</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The Paul Virilio Reader.” 2004, pg. 6 Ann)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">__The contemporary military ….__ be able to penetrate deeply buried bunkers or rocky mountains. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The result is the normalization of preemption as the preferable strategy of war.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Goh 2k6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - Fellow @ Harvard University (Irving. “Disagreeing Preemptive/ Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Rancière.” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://fastcapitalism.com/]]</span> Ann)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The articulation of wait …. of the preemptive in all its forms. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The Aff creates democratic resistance and the possibility to generate new norms.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Goh 2k6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - Fellow @ Harvard University (Irving. “Disagreeing Preemptive/ Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Rancière.” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://fastcapitalism.com/]]</span> Ann)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The fact remains that the victim …. is none other than but now. </span>


**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONTENTION 3: GOVERNMENT SECRECY</span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THE GOVERNMENT HIDES THE EFFECTS OF PRECISION WARFARE.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONETTA 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - co-director of the Project on Defense Alternatives (PDA). Prior to joining PDA, Mr. Conetta was a Research Fellow of the <span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://www.idds.org/|Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies]]</span> (IDDS) and also served for three years as editor of the IDDS journal //Defense and Disarmament Alternatives//, and the //Arms Control Reporter// (Carl. Disappearing the Dead Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Idea of a 'New Warfare.'" <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.comw.org/pda/0402rm9.html]]</span>)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="background: yellow;">Once war commences and casualties </span>….__disappearing the dead.__ </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THIS INCLUDES SKEPTICISM OF CIVILIAN DEATHS TO AVOID THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE WAR.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONETTA 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - co-director of the Project on Defense Alternatives (PDA). Prior to joining PDA, Mr. Conetta was a Research Fellow of the <span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://www.idds.org/|Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies]]</span> (IDDS) and also served for three years as editor of the IDDS journal //Defense and Disarmament Alternatives//, and the //Arms Control Reporter// (Carl. Disappearing the Dead Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Idea of a 'New Warfare.'" <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.comw.org/pda/0402rm9.html]]</span>)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="background: yellow;">Two weeks after the </span>….positive coalition effort. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">WE HAVE AN ETHICAL OBLIGATION – DEBATE ROUNDS ARE KEY TO SHOW PRECISION WARFARE’S HIDDEN AND HUMAN COSTS.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">NIXON 2k5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – Rachel Carson Professor of English @ University of Wishconsin Madison (Rob. Chronicle of Higher Education. Vol. 41. Issue 24. February 18.<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://irgg.research.yale.edu/documents/ToolsofWar.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">WHAT is a war …. lingering, off-camera casualties. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CURRENT UTILITARIAN POLITICS MAKES WAR AND VIOLENCE INEVITABLE – THE ONLY ESCAPE IS THROUGH ETHICS.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">XIANGCHEN 2k8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy @ Fudan (Sun. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Critique of Modern Political Philosophy.” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/121573478/HTMLSTART?CRETRY=1&SRETRY=0|**http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/121573478/HTMLSTART?CRETRY=1&SRETRY=0**]]</span> Ann)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">According to Hobbes's logic, there is initially …..__<span style="background: yellow;"> itself upon the ontology of war</span>__<span style="background: yellow;">.3</span> </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND WITHOUT THE STATE ACCEPTING RESPONSIBILITY– VIOLENCE WILL ALWAYS BE INEVITABLE </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">**ARONOWICZ 2k6** – Professor Judaism Franklin and Marshall College (Annette. “Levinas and Politics.” Summer.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Aronowicz, prof Judaism Franklin and Marshall, 2006</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://66.102.1.104/scholar?q=cache:5L5lnjhcUSgJ:scholar.google.com/+levinas%2Bholocaust%2Bpolitics&hl=en]]</span> Ann)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">What remains ….<span style="background: yellow;"> suffer</span> (Levinas 1990:110). </span>


**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONTENTION 4 IS SOLVENCY: </span>__**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">PUBLIC DISCOURSE OF WAR HAS BEEN SHAPED BY THE GOVERNMENT – PLAN CAN EXPOSE SECRECY.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONETTA 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - co-director of the Project on Defense Alternatives (PDA). Prior to joining PDA, Mr. Conetta was a Research Fellow of the <span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://www.idds.org/|Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies]]</span> (IDDS) and also served for three years as editor of the IDDS journal //Defense and Disarmament Alternatives//, and the //Arms Control Reporter// (Carl. Disappearing the Dead Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Idea of a 'New Warfare.'" <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.comw.org/pda/0402rm9.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="background: yellow;">The ease with which public </span>…. or no collateral damage. </span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">OTHER COUNTRIES MODEL THE US.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">LAKE 2k10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – writer for Washington Times (Eli. June 2. <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/jun/2/us-drone-strikes-come-under-un-fire/?page=2]]</span> DA=June 2,2010)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">To start, his report says __<span class="underline">….. the best option </span>__</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THEIR DISADS ARE ROOTED IN THE LOGIC OF THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Chang and Mehan 2k6 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">- doctoral student of Sociology at the University of California at San Diego. His dissertation is a study of the politics of representation in the War on Terrorism; it connects discourse analysis to sociology of culture and sociology of knowledge. He has also examined discourse in college rankings (with J.R. Osborn) and the standards-based reform movement in the United States. Address: University of California at San Diego, Department of Sociology Professor at the University of California at San Diego. In addition to early works in ethnomethodology and classroom discourse processes, he has studied the politics of representation in the administration of I.Q. tests, placement of special education students, diplomatic negotiation of nuclear weapons during the Cold War, mobilization of voters in a state policy toward immigrants, and contestation among power players in educational reforms (Gordon C. Chang and Hugh B. Mehan. "DISCOURSE IN A RELIGIOUS MODE: THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION'S DISCOURSE IN THE WAR ON TERRORISM AND ITS CHALLENGES." International Pragmatics Association. Ann)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">A rational mode of ….., impersonal form of reasoning, assessment, and calculation. </span>

==﻿2AC Kappler== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">PLAN SOLVES – THE PLAN REPRESENTS AN ETHICAL TRANSFORMATION BECAUSE WE ALLOW UNIVERSAL STATEMENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED ON THE LEVEL OF THE INDIVIDUAL. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**SMITH 2k3** – Department of Religion and Philosophy @ Berry College (Dr. Michael. “Emmanuel Levinas's Ethics of Responsibility." Mike Ryan Lecture Series, Kennesaw State College. October 7. (<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.kennesaw.edu/clubs/psa/pdfs/Smith_2003_PSA.pdf]]</span>) (GENDER MODIFIED) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">One of the most ….</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">__for the other.__ </span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">THE AFF IS CRITICAL TO DEVELOP A NEW MEANS OF DECISION-MAKING IN WHICH WE ESTABLISH A MEANS OF MORAL OBLIGATION TO RPEVENT TURNING THE PERPETRATORS OF VIOLENCE INTO THE VICTIMS.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**KAPPELER 95** – Associate Professor @ School of Humanities and Social Sciences @ Al-Akhawyn University (Susanne. “The Will to Violence.” p. 4-5) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="UnderlineChar1"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">__Besides being no__ </span></span><span style="font-family: Arial;">….</span>__<span class="UnderlineChar1"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> violence and for a non-violent society.</span></span>__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THE ALT FAILS TO DEFINE THE SPECIFICITY OF ANY PARTICULAR SITUATION – WHICH FAILS TO SOVLE THE ALTERNATIVE. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">HALLWARD 2k1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – PhD, Professor of Modern European Philosophy @ Middlesex University (Peter. “Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil.” Journal of the Theoretical Humanities) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Like any 'interventionist' </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">….</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> of the situation as such.</span></span>
=Negative= 
==Counterplans== 
===Anti-Base Movement CP=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial;">TEXT: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD ALIGN WITH THE GLOBAL ANTI-BASES MOVEMENT. </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**RAISING CONSCIOUSNESS AMOUNG AMERICAN CITIZIENS ABOUT THE ATROCITIES OF THE US’ EMPIRE OF BASES IS A VITAL FIRST-STEP FOR EFFECTIVE RESISTANCE TO THIS MILITARISM.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Arial;">**Grossman 2k10**</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> (Zoltán, professor of geography at The Evergreen State College, Washington “Imperial Footprint: America’s Foreign Military Bases” http://www.dmzhawaii.org/?tag=bases-of-empire) </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Arial; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The global proliferation of US bases ….**<span style="background: yellow;">new relationship with the rest of the world.</span>**</span> </span>__</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Arial;">THE AFF’S WITHDRAWAL OF MILITARY PRESENCE IS THE MODERN STRATEGY FOR EMPIRE-BUILDING: TROOPS WILL JUST BE RE-DEPLOYED TO LOCATIONS WHERE POPULATIONS ARE LESS ABLE TO RESIST – FURTHERING US IMPERIAL DOMINATION. </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Arial;">**Grossman 2k10**</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial;"> (Zoltán, professor of geography at The Evergreen State College, Washington “Imperial Footprint: America’s Foreign Military Bases” http://www.dmzhawaii.org/?tag=bases-of-empire) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">“Metaphorically,” observes ….<span class="boldunderline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> __Eastern Hemisphere has drop-kicked us__</span></span>” (p. 211). </span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**THIS HEGEMONIC DISCOURSE LEADS TO PLANETARY ANNIHILATION.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**DALLMAYR 2k4** - Professor in the departments of philosophy and political science at the University of Notre Dame (Fred. “The Underside of Modernity: Adorno, Heidegger, and Dussel.” Constellations, Volume 11, Issue 1 (p 102-120) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">What Dussel here calls ….<span class="boldunderline"><span style="background: yellow; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__a button and annihilate the earth.__**</span></span>26 </span>

==Emory Strategies== 
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Rd 1 New Trier CK** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff - BMD </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">T Presence, Security K, Advantage CP, Europe BMD DA, APEC DA, Case (Transperany, Cruise Missiles, Taiwan, First Strike) </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR – Advantage CP and Europe BMD DA </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Rd 4 Oak Park HH</span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Aff – War on Terror </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">1NC – Kurdistan PIC, Spanos K, Anti-Base CP w/ Redeployment Net benefit, Debt Ceiling – Obama Good, Case (Realism Inevitable, Security Good, Framework) </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">2NR – Kurdistan PIC, Case </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Rd 5 University** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff – Surveillance </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC – T Presence, Cap K, Kudistan PIC, Debt Ceiling Obama Good, Case (Biopower, Surveillence, Terror Talk) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR – T Presence </span>