[[toc]]
For other questions please feel free to email us:
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[mailto:alexklopp@gmail.com|alexklopp@gmail.com]]</span>
[[mailto:liamkh22@gmail.com|liamkh22@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 
==South Korea== 
===Contention One is KOREACON=== 

**Troop presence is the key factor threatening peace on the Korean peninsula and the root cause of North Korea provocations**
**KIM JOHNG SOHN, ‘9****__.__**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Tongail Korea Net, “US Should Terminate Military Presence in S Korea As Early As Possible,” 9-8, [[http://tongilkorea.net/2009/09/08/us-should-terminate-military-presence-in-s-korea-as-early-as-possible/]]. </span></span>


<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pyongyang — It has passed 64 years since the U.S. imperialists’ occupation of south Korea. </span>__If the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__persistently enforces its policy of military presence in south Korea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, lending a deaf ear to the voices of the peoples of Korea and other countries of the world demanding the earliest withdrawal of the U.S. forces from south Korea</span>__, it will face bitterer rebuff__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and denunciation at home and </span>__abroad.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. forces’ landing in south Korea was aimed at keeping it under its occupation and turning it into its colony, dividing Korea into two parts and using its southern half as a military appendage for executing its policy of aggression. The U.S. moves to seek its forces’ permanent presence in south Korea and bolster up its combat capability are a challenge to the demand of the times for the withdrawal of foreign troops and their trend. </span>__The U.S. should pull its forces out of south Korea as early as possible__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as demanded by international law and the times. </span>__The termination of the U.S. forces’ presence in south Korea would remove the basic factor of threatening the peace in Korea and the biggest hurdle lying in the way of national reunification.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The pullback of the U.S. forces from south Korea would result in eliminating the most dangerous hotbed of war in the world and thus help create environment favorable for ensuring peace and security on the Korean peninsula and the rest of Asia and the world. How to approach the issue of the U.S. forces’</span> __withdrawal__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">from south Korea</span> __serves as a barometer judging whether the U.S. has a will to rectify its hostile policy towards the DPRK__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or not and whether it wishes to see Korea’s reunification and peace or not. The world is waiting for the U.S. to make a switchover in its attitude. </span>


**Military presence guarantees US involvement and conflict escalation**
**Hornberger 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Jacob, *founder of the Future for Freedom Foundation and former publisher for The Freeman, “Pull Out of Korea (and Everywhere Else),” Future of Freedom Foundation, 6/16, [[http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-06-16.asp]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Notwithstanding its occupations of two nations — Afghanistan and Iraq, the U.S. Empire is at it again, fulfilling its role as the world’s international policeman, this time with respect to North Korea. Americans should hope that things don’t get out of control because if they do, there is little doubt that if war were to unexpectedly and suddenly break out in Korea tens of thousands of young men and possibly young women would be drafted to fight and die in such a war. Imagine the following scenario: North Korea warships begin intercepting American cargo ships, hailing them, and then requesting to board them to inspect their cargo. Wouldn’t the response of most Americans be: What business does the North Korean government have interfering with the free movement of American vessels? Well, that’s precisely what U.S. warships are going to be doing with North Korean vessels, thanks to a new UN Security Council resolution that has been enacted at the request of U.S. officials. Fortunately, U.S. officials backed off from forcibly boarding Korean ships, an act that the North Korean government announced would be considered an act of war, which it would be. Nonetheless, when U.S. warships are approaching Korean vessels and requesting to board such vessels, there is always the risk of miscalculation, especially when one is dealing with an erratic and bizarre regime like that which rules North Korea. The real issue is: Why does the U.S. government still have 25,000 American troops in South Korea, especially since that the Korean War ended more than 50 years ago? Why shouldn’t the South Koreans bear the responsibility for defending their own nation from attack? Why should Americans be forced to fight to fight and die in foreign war thousands of miles away from American shores? / Those </span>__25,000 U.S. troops__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in South Korea serve one function — a tripwire that will </span>__guarantee U.S. involvement in__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">such </span>__a war. Thousands of those troops would undoubtedly be killed in a sudden invasion by North Korea.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Don’t forget that Seoul, South Korea, is only 25 miles from the North Korean border. Once thousands of U.S. troops are killed, </span>__the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__would be fully committed to the war. / That would mean another land war in Asia, a very nasty one.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It would mean a military draft. Lots of body bags coming home. Soaring taxes, enormous tax surcharges, massive debt, and soaring inflation. More centralization of power for Washington, especially for the military and the military-industrial complex. Massive infringements on civil liberties. / What greater recipe for big government and loss of liberty than a confluence of the “war on terrorism” and the “war on communism”? What better opportunity for the full application of the enemy-combatant doctrine for American citizens here at home? / It’s best to treat the North Korean regime as a scuba diver treats strange and bizarre creatures in the sea — by simply leaving it alone. Unfortunately, that’s not what </span>__the U.S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Empire doing. Instead it’s instead </span>__poking and provoking the North Korean regime, increasing the possibility of a miscalculation whose consequences would be disastrous for America.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> / Americans would be wise to dismantle the U.S. Empire, bring all overseas troops home from everywhere, and discharge them, and end the U.S. government’s self-assumed role as the world’s international policeman, before the empire plunges our nation into bigger messes than it already has.</span>


<span class="Underline">**We control uniqueness tensions are high - US maneuvers, a recent North Korea vow, and Moscow’s assessment prove**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Osborn 9/24/10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Moscow correspondent for the Daily Telegraph (Andrew</span>**, “**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">North and South Korea on the brink of war, Russian diplomat warns,” Telegraph.co.uk, <span class="Underline">http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/8020972/North-and-South-Korea-on-the-brink-of-war-Russian-diplomat-warns.html)</span></span>
__In Moscow's bleakest assessment of the situation on the Korean peninsula yet, Russian deputy foreign minister__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Alexei Borodavkin </span>__said tensions between the two countries were running at their highest and most dangerous level in a decade.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>__Tensions on the Korean Peninsula could not be any higher. The only next step is a conflict__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," he told foreign policy experts at a round table on the subject in Moscow. His prediction came two months </span>__after [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/|North Korea]] vowed to wage "a sacred war" against [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/southkorea/|South Korea]] and its biggest backer, the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates. Tensions bubbled over in March after Washington and Seoul concluded that a North Korean submarine had sunk a South Korean naval vessel in the Yellow Sea. Mr Borodavkin called for the investigation into exactly who was responsible for the sinking of the vessel, the Cheonan, to be urgently closed in order to remove an obvious source of tension. Describing the standoff between the two Koreas as a "hangover from the Cold War," Mr Borodavkin said Russia, which is one of the six countries involved in talks with North Korea over its nuclear programme, was doing all it could to try to prevent an outbreak of hostilities. But he said responsibility for keeping peace in the volatile region was shared equally between North and South Korea. </span>__He condemned North Korea's nuclear testing programme but also criticised the way the United States and South Korea had increased their military manoeuvres in the wake of the sinking of the Cheonan.__

**South Korea __won’t__ back down this time around – ensures escalation**
**AFP, 6/15**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/5/09, “S.Korea to re-enact naval battle amid tensions,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5iJ7-I6CqAa2pFx4vjBHQZhN7jCQQ]], JMP)</span>
__A multinational investigation concluded last month that a North Korean submarine torpedoed the Cheonan__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> corvette in the Yellow Sea on March 26, killing 46 sailors. North Korea denies involvement and says reprisals announced by the South could trigger war. The South is seeking <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">N</span>ations condemnation of its communist neighbour. On Monday it presented the findings of the investigation to Security Council members. The council warned both sides against any actions that could **escalate regional tension**. In Seoul</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, </span>__South Korea's navy chief **promised stern retaliation** for any new naval provocation by the North.__ __"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If North Korean troops stage a provocation again,</span> __we must **turn the site of the provocation into their grave**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Admiral Kim Sung-Chan told naval personnel at</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> a ceremony marking the 11th anniversary of a deadly maritime clash. In the clash along the Yellow Sea border, the first naval battle since the Korean War, a North Korean boat with an estimated 20 sailors aboard was sunk.</span>


**U.S. presence actively __facilitates belligerence__**
**Bandow, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – fellow at the american conservative defense alliance and former special assistant to reagan (6/9/2008, doug, “ending the u.s.-korea alliance,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812|http://www.nationalinterest.org/article.aspx?id=17812]], jmp)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Still, does an american presence dampen geopolitical rivalries and arms races? </span>__Washington’s role as de facto security guarantor might discourage allied states from doing more for their own defense,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">but that is a dubious benefit since </span>__the belief that the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">u</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">s</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__will intervene **encourages countries to be more belligerent in any disputes with other nations.**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Moreover, america’s presence virtually forces beijing to upgrade its military, lest it remain permanently vulnerable to foreign coercion. That is the worst dynamic possible—weakening friendly nations and keeping them permanently dependent on washington, while convincing china that only a sustained military buildup will enable it to deter u.s. intervention.</span>


**The U.S. response to bolster deterrence will just increase provocations and make miscalculation more likely**
**Armstrong, 10 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University.. (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the other hand, </span>__there is a real danger of this war of words escalating into a shooting war.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> With well over a million Korean troops facing each other across the Demilitarized Zone separating North and South, along with 29,000 U.S. troops in the South, and North Korea now armed with nuclear weapons, the consequences of a renewed Korean War would be catastrophic for the Korean peninsula and the entire Northeast Asia region. </span>__The Cheonan incident has reinforced U.S.-South Korean and U.S.-Japanese cooperation in deterring the North. But **deterrence can look like provocation from the other side, and in such a tense and volatile environment, a slight miscalculation can lead to disaster.** Anger and outrage may be understandable, but cooler heads must prevail. Millions of lives are at stake. Rather than lead to deepening confrontation, this tragedy may be an opportunity to re-engage North Korea in talks__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to scale back and ultimately eliminate its nuclear program, and to promote security and economic cooperation with its neighbors. North Korea has never admitted to acts of terrorism in the past, and we cannot expect it to acknowledge responsibility and apologize for the sinking of the Cheonan as a precondition for such talks. Instead, the international community should take advantage of Kim Jong Il's stated willingness to return to multilateral negotiations, suspended since 2008, as a way of reducing tensions on the Korean peninsula. It is time to end the Korean War, not start it anew.</span>

**Miscalculation ensures escalation—the impact is nuclear war**
**STRATFOR 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [5/26/10, “North Korea, South Korea: The Military Balance on the Peninsula,” [[http://www.stratfor.com/analysis/20100526_north_korea_south_korea_military_balance_peninsula]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Managing Escalation But no one, of course, is interested in another war on the Korean Peninsula. Both sides will posture, but at the end of the day, neither benefits from a major outbreak of hostilities. And despite the specter of North Korean troops streaming under the DMZ through tunnels and wreaking havoc behind the lines in the south (a scenario for which there has undoubtedly been significant preparation), neither side has any intention of invading the other. So </span>__the real issue is the potential for escalation — or an accident that could precipitate escalation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — that would be beyond the control of Pyongyang or Seoul. </span>__With both sides on high alert, both adhering to their own national (and contradictory) definitions of where disputed boundaries lie and with rules of engagement loosened, the potential for sudden and rapid escalation is quite real__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Indeed, North Korea’s navy, though sizable on paper, is largely a hollow shell of old, laid-up vessels. What remains are small fast attack craft and submarines — mostly Sang-O “Shark” class boats and midget submersibles. These vessels are best employed in the cluttered littoral environment to bring asymmetric tactics to bear — not unlike those Iran has prepared for use in the Strait of Hormuz. These kinds of vessels and tactics — including, especially, the deployment of naval mines — are poorly controlled when dispersed in a crisis and are often impossible to recall. For nearly 40 years, tensions on the Korean Peninsula were managed within the context of the wider Cold War. During that time it was feared that a second Korean War could all too easily escalate into and a thermonuclear World War III, so both Pyongyang and Seoul were being heavily managed from their respective corners. In fact, USFK was long designed to ensure that South Korea could not independently provoke that war and drag the Americans into it, which for much of the Cold War period was of far greater concern to Washington than North Korea attacking southward. Today, those constraints no longer exist. There are certainly still constraints — neither the United States nor China wants war on the peninsula. But </span>__current tensions are quickly escalating to a level unprecedented in the post-Cold War period,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the constraints that do exist have never been tested in the way they might be if the situation escalates much further.</span>



**A massive power struggle is underway in north korea – warring factions will facilitate several avenues for conflict**
**Bandow, 6/9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow at the cato institute and former special assistant to reagan (6/9/10, doug, the daily caller, “confronting north korea: who’s in charge?”[[http://dailycaller.com/2010/06/09/confronting-north-korea-whos-in-charge/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We see through a glass darkly, said the apostle paul, and that is certainly the case when it comes to north korea. Power appears to be shifting as the supreme people’s assembly meets in pyongyang. The premier has been replaced. Three other ministers were replaced. Six vice premiers were added. And kim’s brother-in-law, chang song-taek, was elevated to the vice chairmanship of the national defense commission, the true fount of power in the democratic people’s republic of korea. All of these moves were orchestrated by “dear leader” kim jong-il, whose power has never seemed in doubt. The switch in prime ministers may reflect an attempt to boost the economy after a botched currency exchange last fall. One of the other ministerial changes covers foodstuffs—amid rumors of worsening food shortages. But chang’s move may be the most important, since he is seen as kim’s closest ally who managed the affairs of state when kim was recovering from a stroke. Chang also has been tasked with helping to manage the anointment of kim’s 28-year-old son, kim jong-un, as the latter’s successor. </span>__Adding mystery to the latest moves were three other recent leadership changes.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In april a top party official was said to have died of a heart attack. In may a member of the ndc was said to have retired because of his age, 80, even though plenty of other aging officials hold top positions. And last week a senior official in the korean worker’s party—a rival of chang’s who also was reportedly entrusted with smoothing the transfer of power—was said to have died in a car accident. All plausible explanations. But</span> __all__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">equally </span>**__plausible covers for a power struggle. There never would be a good time for instability in north korea.__** __The heavily armed regime continues with its nuclear program.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It has been pulling back in its modest economic liberalization of recent years. </span>__In april the dprk apparently sank the cheonan__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a south korean warship,</span> **__the north’s first deadly act of war in more than two decades.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Since then the republic of korea has cut economic ties and barred pyongyang’s ships from south korean waters. The north reciprocated by closing, or at least saying that it intended to close, the kaesong industrial park, in which rok companies employ north korean workers. Hostile rhetoric has filled the air, but no one really wants war. Although the dprk has made brinkmanship its principal negotiating strategy, pyongyang knows that it would lose any conflict. Even when it comes to whatever nuclear capability kim jong-il has developed—miniaturizing weapons and developing delivery systems are not easy—deterrence works. He and his cohorts want their virgins (and liquor) in this life, not the next. The cheonan’s sinking, while not likely to lead to war, does provide several important geopolitical lessons. First, </span>__there may be serious, potentially **destabilizing internal regime conflicts** which are currently hidden.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Theories abound about the sinking of the cheonan, including rogue military act to block better relations with the west and officially sanctioned policy to win military support for kim jong-un’s succession. The recently announced personnel shifts only deepen the mystery. Second, the rok’s military, despite supposedly possessing maritime superiority, must focus more on national defense. Seoul has been grandly thinking of an increased regional and even global military role. But when the north can use a midget-sub, as one theory runs, to sink a south korean ship in south korean waters, the lee government must focus on its most important responsibility, safeguarding the nation. Third, the u.s.-rok alliance has outlived its usefulness. The south is well-able to defend itself, with some 40 times the dprk’s gdp and twice the dprk’s population. There’s no reason for washington, which faces a deficit of $1.6 trillion this year, to borrow money for the privilege of defending south korea, which is well able to spend much more on its military if circumstances require. Fourth, </span>__there’s no reason to expect a “soft landing” in the north.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The existing regime has demonstrated enormous resilience, both in surviving crisis and in resisting change. However, it took kim il-sung, who won control with soviet aid at the north’s founding in 1949, decades to transfer power to his son, kim jong-il. The latter is in ill health and probably doesn’t have nearly as much time to orchestrate a similar transfer.</span> __The result could be a **messy power struggle on kim’s death**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, with, in addition to kim jong-un, two other sons, a brother-in-law, a younger half-brother, past and present wives, various illegitimate children, and any number of officials who have been waiting years, even decades, for their chance to gain control. Finally, </span>__the key to solving the “north korean problem” is china.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Shortly after the sinking of the cheonan kim jong-il scurried off to the prc, apparently with his chosen son in tow. Today beijing provides the dprk with the bulk of its food and energy. </span>__Until now the chinese leadership has believed that pushing kim too hard risked the stability of the peninsula. But if kim is willing to commit an act of war against the south, his regime is the real source of dangerous regional instability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The prc would be serving its own interest if it acted to neuter pyongyang. It’s hard to believe, but </span>__the situation in north korea could get worse. Imagine a weak collective leadership after kim’s death **dissolving into warring factions** as competing officials looked to their favorite kim relative or army general. Imagine burgeoning civil strife, growing public hardship, and mass refugee flows. Or violence flowing across the yalu river to the north and demilitarized zone to the south.__ __Washington’s best policy would be to step back from this geopolitical miasma.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Any map demonstrates which countries have the most at stake in a stable korean peninsula: south korea, japan, china, and russia. It is time for them to take the lead. America could help as they search for a solution. But north korea truly is their problem far more than washington’s problem.</span>
**Domestic discontent will force Kim Jong-un towards violent brinkmanship and regime collapse – the timeframe is now**
**Yoo,** He-yeol**. 10/4/****<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 7.5pt;">. Yoo is a professor of North Korean Studies at Korea University. “Kim Jong-Il Succession Could Mean Crisis or Oppurtunity.” Written for The Chosun Ilbo. <[[@http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2010/10/04/2010100401232.html]]></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The elevation of Kim Jong-il's son Jong-un to his father's heir at an extraordinary party congress is typical of North Korea, but the speed with which he was catapulted through the party ranks shows how urgent and complicated the situation there is. As it will take considerable time for the succession structure to establish itself, the South needs to be prepared for emergencies. The abrupt emergence of Kim Jong-un is directly linked to Kim Jong-il's health, and chances are that a situation that the 27-year-old successor cannot cope with will soon develop.</span> __The abrupt retreat of Kim Jong-il could lead to major disruptions, giving rise to conflicts between old and new forces and policy struggles between the party and military as well as between the conservatives and reformers. In a crisis the North Korean regime has__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">often </span>__provoked the South in a bid to consolidate its hold at home. If Kim Jong-un attempts to strengthen his weak role with a display of audacity, worse things than the sinking of the Navy corvette Cheonan could happen.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">And conflicts with the international community over nuclear weapons and missiles will make it difficult for Kim Jong-un to resist an act of brinkmanship. A</span> __third-generation dynastic succession is unacceptable even in the worst dictatorships. Few North Koreans would support this anachronism. Control, suppression, and propaganda will have to intensify, but even then the regime will find it hard to deal with 23 million people who have just started to wake up to this iniquity. If fissures develop within the ruling elite, then the Kim dynasty would come under pressure from all sides and start to crumble.__
<span class="Underline">**Collapse is inevitable by the end of the decade**</span>
//**Meyers, 10**// //– professor at Dongseo University in South Korea (3/26/10, B.R. Meyers, “ North Korea on the Edge; If the regime collapses, will the rest of the world be ready?” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704100604575145672974954144.html?mod=WSJ_hpp_RIGHTTopCarousel)//

[[#U20646647205Y0B]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As for </span>__tensions__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with the south, they </span>__rose again__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Friday </span>__with the sinking of a South Korean naval ship near a disputed maritime border with North Korea, although it wasn't immediately clear what had caused the sinking or if North Korean vessels were involved.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The latest incident comes days after a conference in which some experts described the Kim dictatorship as being in the first stage of collapse. Americans should be paying attention: </span>__If North Korea decides to go out in a blaze of nuclear glory—and its current penchant for kamikaze rhetoric suggests it might—the enormous number of casualties would likely include many of the U.S. troops stationed on the peninsula. **But even a less-apocalyptic form of collapse could destabilize the entire region**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Those South Korean experts might be wrong in their predictions, but </span>__the regime seems increasingly unlikely to last out the decade, even if the planned hand-off of power__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the Dear Leader's son Kim Jong Eun </span>__goes off without a hitch. The economy is only part of the problem.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> North Koreans endured far worse deprivation during the 1990s famine without flagging in their support for the regime. This brings us back to that wall poster, and to the regime's real crisis, which is more ideological in nature than economic. </span>__The information cordon that once encircled North Korea is in tatters.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Police in the northern provinces try in vain to crack down on the use of Chinese cellphones; citizens circumvent tracking devices by making brief calls from mountains and forests—sometimes to defectors as far away as the U.S. In provinces along the demilitarized zone, many citizens watch South Korean television. Even in Pyongyang, people listen to BBC or Voice of America radio, or view online news surreptitiously at companies with Internet access.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Kim Jong Un needs to score some political victories to ensure a stable succession process – right now he is using military provocations to try and win support of the military**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lee, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/27/10, Jean H., writer for the Associated Press, The Associated Press, “Analysis: Attack May Be Tied to NKorean Succession”, [[http://www.lexisnexis.com/|http://www.lexisnexis.com]])</span></span>
<span class="Underline">Young, inexperienced and virtually unknown even at home, Kim Jong Un **needs** at least a few **<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">political victories</span>** under his belt if he is to succeed his father <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as leader of communist North Korea. </span>The sinking of a South Korean warship may well have provided Kim Jong Il's <span style="font-size: 8pt;">20-something</span> son and rumored heir with a victory that would bolster his support within the <span style="font-size: 6pt;">communist country's</span> military, a million-man force in need of a boost after a November sea battle left one North Korean sailor dead. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">North Korea has vehemently denied involvement in the torpedo attack that sank the Cheonan near the Koreas' sea border in March, killing 46 sailors in one of the boldest attacks on the South since the Korean War of the 1950s. The timing might seem inexplicable: After a year of intransigence, North Korea seemed willing and ready to return to nuclear disarmament talks. But </span>North Korea has never seen violence and negotiation as incompatible, and domestic issues a succession movement and military discontent may be more urgent than foreign policy.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> North Korea's leaders tightly control information and thrive on myths and lies. However, they cannot hide that the nation is in turmoil, struggling to build its shattered economy and to feed its 24 million people. The number of defectors is rising, and the encroachment of the outside world, through videos and films smuggled from China, has shown citizens what lies beyond the so-called Hermit Kingdom's borders. </span>Kim Jong Il<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, now 68, </span>is ailing.<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> North Korea has never confirmed that he suffered a stroke in 2008, but his sudden weight loss last year and the persistent paralysis that has left him with a slight limp was visible during his rare trip to China last month. </span>None of his three sons has had the benefit of the more than a decade of grooming Kim had by the time he took over after his father Kim Il Sung's death in 1994, and the regime says it is determined to usher in a "stronger, prosperous" era in 2012,<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the centenary of the patriarch's birth. Any change in leadership has the potential to be traumatic and tumultuous</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A bold attack would be a quick way to muster support and favor in a country where </span>one in 20 citizens is in the military<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. North Korea has attacked the South a number of times, despite the 1953 truce that ended the devastating Korean War. South Korea has never retaliated militarily, mindful of the toll another war would have on the Korean peninsula. The North's deadliest attack was a bomb smuggled aboard a Korean Air flight, which was decimated over the Andaman Sea in 1987, killing 115 people on board. A North Korean agent captured in connection with that plot said the mastermind was Kim Jong Il, then a few years shy of taking over as leader. Pyongyang has never admitted to any of the post-truce attacks and may have counted on little proof being uncovered when it sent a submarine loaded with a torpedo into the choppy Yellow Sea on March 26. But the distinctively North Korean script scrawled on the inside of a torpedo fragment found during the investigation, among other evidence, was a damning fingerprint. The Cheonan was a symbolic target: The 1,200-ton frigate was involved in a 1999 skirmish between the two Koreas that the South claims killed as many as 30 North Koreans. North Korea disputes the western sea border drawn by U.N. at the close of the Korean War, and those waters have been the site of two other bloody battles since 1999: a firefight in 2002 that killed six South Koreans, and a clash just last November that Seoul says killed a North Korean sailor. </span>The North Korean navy was ripe for revenge. And defectors say it may have needed a boost, since even relatively well-fed military leaders in a regime built around a "military-first" policy had been going hungry in recent years. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Not long after the November skirmish, the regime enacted sweeping currency reforms. North Koreans were ordered to exchange a limited amount of bills for a new currency, and to turn the rest over to the government a move that effectively wiped out any personal savings. The reforms were a disaster. There were reports of riots and unrest previously a rarity in totalitarian North Korea. If it was a move to showcase the young, Swiss-educated son's economic acumen, it was a miscalculation. The submarine attack, however, was a stealth move. North Korea's outdated arsenal cannot match South Korea's state-of-the-art systems, but the slow-moving sub somehow went undetected by Seoul's sophisticated radars. </span>Regardless of who ordered the attack, credit for it may have been circulated among top military commanders to build support for the fledging heir apparent, already reportedly dubbed the "Brilliant Comrade." <span style="font-size: 6pt;">To the broader public, the North characterizes blame for the attack as a smear campaign instigated by the South. And that suits the regime's purposes just fine. There's nothing like a mortal enemy to rally the masses in North Korea, a reclusive state built on the philosophy of "juche," or self-reliance. Washington and Seoul are leading the effort to haul Pyongyang back before the U.N. Security Council for more sanctions or, at the very least, censure. Even that may play right into the Brilliant Comrade's political plans. In the past, the North has used its position as the bad boy of the nuclear world to behave even more badly. Missile tests in 2006 were followed by a nuclear test, its first. And last year, Security Council condemnation was followed just a month later by the regime's second atomic test. International criticism could provide the North with the opening to carry out a third test that would move the regime closer to its goal of perfecting an atomic bomb small enough to mount on a long-range missile. It would be another accomplishment for North Koreans to celebrate, and another achievement for the son to claim. It remains to be seen if and when Kim Jong Il will present his youngest son, a figure so enigmatic that his birthday, age and even his face remain a mystery, to the public as his heir-apparent. The annual gathering of North Korea's rubber-stamp parliament came and went in April without any sign of either the elder Kim, known as the Dear Leader, or the Brilliant Comrade. A rare extraordinary session has been scheduled for June 7. </span>If the precocious prodigal son did indeed plot the attack that plunged inter-Korean relations to their lowest point in a decade and sent world leaders into a huddle on how to avert war, he may finally have a reason to make his political debut<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span></span>

**Conventional weaknesses will force North Korea to resort to CBW use – either deliberate, accidental or unathorized**
**ICG, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">This report examines North Korea’s chemical and biological weapons capabilities in the context of its military doctrine and national objectives. It is based on open source literature, interviews and unpublished documents made available to Crisis Group. Companion reports published simultaneously assess the DPRK’s nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities and what the policy response of the international community should be to its recent nuclear and missile testing.[1] North Korea’s programs to develop weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and ballistic missiles pose serious risks to security. </span>__Pyongyang’s nuclear capabilities are the greatest threat, but it also possesses a **large stockpile of chemical weapons** and is suspected of maintaining a biological weapons program.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The Six-Party Talks (China, Japan, North Korea, Russia, South Korea and the U.S.) had been underway since August 2003 with the objective of ending the North’s nuclear ambitions, before Pyongyang announced its withdrawal in April 2009, but </span>__there is no direct mechanism for dealing with its chemical weapons and possible biological weapons. The North Korean leadership is very unlikely to surrender its WMD **unless there is significant change in the political and security environments.**__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Six-Party Talks pro­duced a “Statement of Principles” in September 2005 that included a commitment to establish a permanent peace mechanism in North East Asia, but the structure and nature of such a cooperative security arrangement is subject to interpretation, negotiation and implementation. Views among the parties differ, and no permanent peace can be established unless North Korea abandons all its WMD programs. The diplomatic tasks are daunting, and diplomacy could fail. If North Korea refuses to engage in arms control and to rid itself of WMD, the international community must be prepared to deal with a wide range of threats, including those posed by Pyongyang’s chemical and biological weapons capabilities. </span>__Unclassified estimates of the chemical weapons__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (CW) </span>__arsenal are imprecise, but **the consensus** is that the__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Korean People’s Army </span>__(KPA) possesses 2,500-5,000 tons,__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> including mustard, phosgene, blood agents, sarin, tabun and V-agents (persistent nerve agents). </span>__The stockpile__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> does not appear to be increasing but </span>__is **already sufficient** to inflict massive civilian casualties on South Korea.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The North’s CW can be delivered with long-range artillery, multiple rocket launchers, FROGs (free rocket over ground), ballistic missiles, aircraft and naval vessels. North Korean military doctrine emphasises quick offensive strikes to break through enemy defences in order to achieve national military objectives before the U.S. can intervene effectively on behalf of its South Korean ally. However, </span>__the North’s conventional military capabilities are declining against those of its potential foes, so the leadership is likely to rely on asymmetric capabilities for its national security objectives. This strategy poses a significant danger because it risks **deliberate, accidental or unauthorized WMD attacks or incidents.**__



**North Korea has concealed nuclear and biological weapons – military manual proves they are prepared for war**
**Herman 9/19/10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Steve, “Secret Manual Gives Glimpse of North Korean Military Tactics,” VOA news, http://www.voanews.com/english/news/Secret-Manual-Gives-Glimpse-of-North-Korean-Military-Tactics-103253534.html)</span>
__A [[@http://www.scribd.com/doc/37744557/Leaked-North-Korean-Military-Manual|military manual]]__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> said to have been </span>__smuggled out of North Korea, reveals Pyongyang’s concern about electronic warfare technology used by the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates and South Korea. The document also indicates </span>__North Korea’s military uses radar-absorbing paint and other stealth tactics to conceal its weapons. Analysts__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">studying the purported North Korean manual</span> __say Pyongyang has taken a variety of measures to redress the overwhelming military disadvantage it would face if war breaks out on the Korean peninsula.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Though there is no way to be absolutely certain about the authenticity of the manual</span>__, South Korean and U.S. officials who have seen it consider the document to be genuine.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">A long-time analyst of North Korea and its military, Daniel Pinkston of the International Crisis Group in Seoul, examined the document at VOA’s request. He called it significant, saying "As far as their planning, their preparations, I think there's some useful information to take from this document." The five-year-old handbook gives instructions on how to make radar-absorbing paint to help conceal jets, warships and tanks. It also explains how to fabricate decoys, pave bogus runways and deceive the enemy by having stationary units mimic the characteristics of those on the move. Such tactics have long been used by Western militaries. Pinkston, a former U.S. Air Force analyst on North Korea, says the classified manual was likely distributed to commanders and other high-level military specialists concerned with electronic warfare. "This is maybe a little bit surprising but there's a clear awareness early on in the document about the importance of electronics, communications systems, information, computers and how it affects command and control. There's a recognition if your command and control is impaired, then it has a serious impact on your ability to conduct military operations,” he said. News of the document was first reported by the Chosun Ilbo. </span>__The Seoul newspaper quoted a South Korean intelligence expert as saying the North’s stealth tactics are more extensive than expected__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. North and South Korea remain technically at war, since they never signed a peace treaty at the end of the Korean War in 1953. North Korea has more than a million troops, most of them based close to the Demilitarized Zone dividing the peninsula. South Korea has about 600,000 active duty troops, and the United States bases about 28,000 soldiers in the South. While the North has more soldiers, military analysts say they are underequipped and their weapons are mostly old and outdated, especially compared with the high-technology arms of the U.S. and South Korea. </span>__The North,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">however, </span>__is suspected of having both biological and chemical weapons, and says it is building nuclear weapons as well__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. VOA News obtained 48 of the document’s 80 pages from the Caleb Mission. The small Christian organization, in the city of Cheonan, assists North Korean defectors. Its pastor, Kim Sung-eun, says his contacts in the reclusive communist state are willing to risk their lives and those of their families to get these kinds of documents out of North Korea. The pastor says he is able to obtain some of Pyongyang’s military secrets because influential people in North Korea are working with his group. The mission, by smuggling in and out of the country cameras resembling pens, also obtains clandestine video of life in North Korea, including at outdoor food markets. They provide a rare glimpse into current conditions inside the impoverished country. North Korea tightly controls where the few outside visitor permitted into the country may go and what they can photograph or videotape.</span>
**<span style="color: black;">North Korean CBW use would __spread globally__ within __six weeks__ - most likely scenario</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Levy, 07</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” </span><span style="color: #1c51a8;">[[@http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating from letters containing anthrax spores infected 22 people, killing five. After almost six years, the case has not been solved.</span>
__<span style="color: black;">Intelligence analysts and academics report that North Korea has developed anthrax, plague, and botulism toxin and conducted extensive research on smallpox, typhoid and cholera.</span>__
<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">A world-renowned bioweapons expert has confirmed that Syria has weapons grade smallpox resistant to all current vaccines developed under the cover of legitimate veterinary research on camelpox, a very closely related virus. The researcher further reports that Syria is suspected of testing the pathogen on prison populations and possibly in the Sudan.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">Although there are close to 50 organisms that could be used offensively, rogue nations have concentrated their bioweapons development efforts on smallpox, anthrax, plague, botulinum, tularemia and viral hemorrhagic fevers. With the exception of smallpox, which is exclusively a human host disease, all of the other pathogens lend themselves to animal testing as they are zoonotic, or can be transmitted to humans by other species.</span>
__<span style="color: black;">Biological weapons are among the most dangerous in the world today and can be engineered and disseminated to achieve a**more deadly result than a nuclear attack.**</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;"> Whereas the explosion of a nuclear bomb would cause massive death in a specific location, </span>__<span style="color: black;">a biological attack with smallpox could infect multitudes of people across the globe. </span>____<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">With incubation periods of up to 17 days, human disseminators could unwittingly cause widespread exposure before diagnosable symptoms indicate an infection and appropriate quarantine procedures are in place.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Unlike any other type of weapon, __bioweapons__ such as smallpox __can replicate and infect a chain of people over an indeterminate amount of time from a single undetectable point of release. According to__ science writer and author of The Hot Zone, Richard __Preston, "If you took a gram of smallpox__, which is highly contagious and lethal, and __for which there's no vaccine available globally now, and released it in the air and created about a hundred cases,__</span>__<span style="color: black;"> the chances are excellent that **the virus would go global in six weeks**</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">as people moved from city to city......</span>__<span style="color: black;">the death toll could easily hit the hundreds of millions.....**in scale, that's like a nuclear war.s"**</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">[</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">1] </span>
__<span style="color: black;">More so than chemical and nuclear research, bioweapons development programs lend themselves to **stealth development**.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;"> They are difficult to detect, can be conducted alongside legimate research on countermeasures, sheltered in animal research facilities within sophisticated pharmaceutical corporations, disguised as part of routine medical university studies, or be a component of dual use technology development. Detection is primarily through available intelligence information and location-specific biosensors that test for the presence of pathogens.</span>
__<span style="color: black;">Biological weapons have many appealing qualities for warfare and their effects can be engineered and customized from a boutique of possibilities.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;"> Offensive pathogens are inexpensive compared to conventional weapons and small quantities can produce disproportionate damage. They have unlimited lethal potential as carriers and can continue to infect more people over time. </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Bioweapons are easy to dispense</span>__** __<span style="color: black;">through a variety of delivery systems from a missile, an aerosol or a food product.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;"> They can be placed into a state of dormancy to be activated at a later stage allowing for ease of storage. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Pathogens are not immediately detectable or identifiable due to varying incubation periods</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">and can be rapidly deployed, activated and impossible to trace. The technology to develop biological agents is widely available for legitimate purposes and large quantities can be developed within days.</span>
**Independently, bioweapons cause extinction**
**Ochs 2** **[Richard, *MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]]**

**Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the** **__genetically engineered biological weapons, many without a known cure or vaccine, are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth__****. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories.** **__While a "nuclear winter__****," resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons,** **__could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control. Biological weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily__****, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated. There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. Abolition of chemical weapons is less of a priority because, while they can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment. Like the Holocaust, once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With nuclear and biological weapons, the killing will probably never end. Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. Potentially worse than that, bio-engineered agents by the hundreds with no known cure could wreck even greater calamity on the human race than could persistent radiation. AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE. Ironically, the Bush administration has just changed the U.S. nuclear doctrine to allow nuclear retaliation against threats upon allies by conventional weapons. The past doctrine allowed such use only as a last resort when our nation’s survival was at stake. Will the new policy also allow easier use of US bioweapons? How slippery is this slope? Against this tendency can be posed a rational alternative policy. To preclude possibilities of human extinction, "patriotism" needs to be redefined to make humanity’s survival primary and absolute. Even if we lose our cherished freedom, our sovereignty, our government or ourConstitution, where there is life, there is hope. What good is anything else if humanity is extinguished? This concept should be promoted to the center of national debate.. For example, for sake of argument, suppose the ancient Israelites developed defensive bioweapons of mass destruction when they were enslaved by Egypt. Then suppose these weapons were released by design or accident and wiped everybody out? As bad as slavery is, extinction is worse. Our generation, our century, our epoch needs to take the long view. We truly hold in our hands the precious gift of all future life. Empires may come and go, but who are the honored custodians of life on earth? Temporal politicians? Corporate competitors? Strategic brinksmen? Military gamers? Inflated egos dripping with testosterone? How can any sane person believe that national sovereignty is more important than survival of the species? Now that extinction is possible, our slogan should be "Where there is life, there is hope." No government, no economic system, no national pride, no religion, no political system can be placed above human survival. The egos of leaders must not blind us. The adrenaline and vengeance of a fight must not blind us. The game is over. If patriotism would extinguish humanity, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.**

**Also, north korean aggression and nuclearization will cause intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots**
**Hayes & hamel-green, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *executive director of the nautilus institute for security and sustainable development, and **executive dean of the faculty of arts, education and human development act victoria university (1/5/10, executive dean at victoria, “the path not taken, the way still open: denuclearizing the korean peninsula and northeast asia,”** </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf|http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001hayeshamalgreen.pdf]])</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly aware that cooperative diplomacy is the most productive way to tackle the multiple, interconnected global challenges facing humanity, not least of which is the increasing proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. </span>__Korea and northeast asia are instances where risks of nuclear proliferation and actual nuclear use arguably have increased in recent years.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This negative trend is a product of continued us nuclear threat projection against the dprk as part of a general program of coercive diplomacy in this region, north korea’s nuclear weapons programme, the breakdown in the chinese-hosted six party talks towards the end of the bush administration, regional concerns over china’s increasing military power, and concerns within some quarters in regional states (japan, south korea, taiwan) about whether us extended deterrence (“nuclear umbrella”) afforded under bilateral security treaties can be relied upon for protection. </span>__The consequences of failing to address the proliferation threat posed by the north korea developments, and related political and economic issues, are serious__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, not only for the northeast asian region but </span>__for the whole international community.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At worst, </span>__there is the__** __possibility of nuclear attack__ **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1, </span>__whether by__** __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">intention, miscalculation, or merely accident</span>**, leading to the resumption of korean war hostilities.**__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> On the korean peninsula itself, key population centres are well within short or medium range missiles. The whole of japan is likely to come within north korean missile range. Pyongyang has a population of over 2 million, seoul (close to the north korean border) 11 million, and tokyo over 20 million. </span>**__Even a limited nuclear exchange would result in a holocaust of unprecedented proportions.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But the catastrophe within the region would not be the only outcome. New research indicates that even a limited nuclear war in the region would rearrange our global climate far more quickly than global warming. Westberg draws attention to new studies modelling the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange involving approximately 100 hiroshima-sized 15 kt bombs2 (by comparison it should be noted that the united states currently deploys warheads in the range 100 to 477 kt, that is, individual warheads equivalent in yield to a range of 6 to 32 hiroshimas).</span>__the studies indicate that the soot from the fires produced would lead to a decrease in global temperature by 1.25 degrees__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> celsius for a period of 6-8 years.3 in westberg’s view: That is not global winter, but </span>__the nuclear darkness will cause a deeper drop in temperature than at any time during the last 1000 years.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The temperature over the continents would decrease substantially more than the global average. A decrease in rainfall over the continents would also follow…</span>__the period of nuclear darkness will cause much greater decrease in grain production than 5% and it will continue for many years...hundreds of millions of people will die from hunger__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…to make matters even worse, </span>__such amounts of smoke injected into the stratosphere would cause a huge reduction in the earth’s protective ozone.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4 These, of course, are not the only consequences. </span>__Reactors might also be targeted, causing further mayhem and downwind radiation effects, superimposed on a smoking, radiating ruin left by nuclear next-use__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Millions of refugees would flee the affected regions. </span>__The direct impacts, and the follow-on impacts on the global economy via ecological and food insecurity, could__** __make the present global financial crisis pale by comparison**.**__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> How the great powers, especially the nuclear weapons states respond to such a crisis, and in particular, whether nuclear weapons are used in response to nuclear first-use, could make or break the global non proliferation and disarmament regimes. There could be many unanticipated impacts on regional and global security relationships5, with </span>**subsequent nuclear breakout **and geopolitical turbulence, __including possible loss-of-control over fissile material or warheads in the chaos of nuclear war, and__** __aftermath chain-reaction affects involving other potential proliferant states.__ **<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The korean nuclear proliferation issue is not just a regional threat but a global one that warrants priority consideration from the international community. </span>**


===**Contention Two is Regionalism**=== 


Bilateral policies fail – regionalism key to East Asian stability
Francis, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” [[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]], JMP)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">At the conclusion of the Second World War, the United States established bilateral military alliances in the Asia-Pacific intended to contain Soviet and Chinese communist expansion in the region. </span>__US security strategy now focuses largely on combating terrorism and denying weapons of mass destruction to so-called rogue states. It is a strategy that cannot be implemented with geographic mutual defense treaties formed to address conventional military threats.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Furthermore, the United States has demonstrated in Afghanistan and Iraq that it is prepared to pursue its global security interests unilaterally, even at the risk of its political relations with traditional alliance partners. </span>__What happened over Iraq between the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">tates </span>__and its European allies could equally happen between the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">tates </span>__and its Asian allies over__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Taiwan or </span>__North Korea with serious consequences for the interests of countries in that region. East Asian powers need to develop a collective security strategy for the region that__** __does not rely **on the**__ **__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">tates’ </span>__participation.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Prudence suggests that East Asian countries need to take the opportunity offered by the recently inaugurated East Asian Summit (EAS) to begin the process of developing an East Asian community as the first step toward the realization of an East Asian Union. This will occur only if led by a strong, proactive Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">China is now the world’s second-largest economy, almost two-thirds as large as the United States in terms of domestic purchasing power. In 2005 China overtook Japan to become the world’s third-largest exporter of goods and services. In 2004 it was the third-largest trading partner with ASEAN; the second largest with Japan, Australia, and India; and the largest with the Republic of Korea. The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) has estimated that in 2004, in purchasing power parity dollar terms, China’s military expenditure was US$161.1 billion, the second highest in the world. The Pentagon has estimated that in 2005 China’s military expenditure was two to three times larger than its official figure of US$29.9 billion.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">China’s growing economic and military strength along with the United States’ preoccupation with its new security agenda has made some East Asian countries increasingly apprehensive. </span>__Particularly since September 11, bilateral military alliances have become less relevant to US security interests, and the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">tates </span>__will likely reduce its military presence in the East Asian region.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Parts of Asia believe that Chinese hegemonic aspirations for East Asia could emerge if the United States were to disengage from the region. Fear of China and the possibility that it harbors hegemonic aspirations were among the factors that led to the creation of ASEAN in 1967 and the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) in 1993. Engaging China in an East Asian union in the future would ensure it will pay a high price in loss of trade and investment if it acts against the interests of the union’s other members. Prospects for an East Asian Community In December 2005 ASEAN hosted an inaugural East Asian Summit in Kuala Lumpur. The summit involved the 10 ASEAN countries; the ASEAN+3 countries of China, Japan, and South Korea; as well as Australia, New Zealand, and India. The summit declaration of December 14, 2005, described the meeting as a forum for “dialogue on broad strategic, political and economic issues of common interest and concern with the aim of promoting peace, stability and economic prosperity in East Asia.” The declaration also noted that the summit could “play a significant role in community building in this region.” ASEAN would work “in partnership with the other participants of the East Asian Summit,” but ASEAN was to retain leadership, preventing control of East Asian community building by either the ASEAN+3 countries, which China could dominate, or the 16 EAS countries, which some felt could steer the EAS toward what would be an unwelcome “Western” agenda. It remains to be seen whether an East Asian community can emerge under ASEAN leadership. ASEAN is an association: it is not a strong regional institution with common interests and objectives. It reflects the diversity of its membership, which has traditionally preferred an unstructured organization, a consensus approach to decision making, and avoidance of controversial issues or intervention in the affairs of its members. The ASEAN Way under Challenge ASEAN’s ways, however, may be changing. Since the late 1990s ASEAN’s non-intervention principle has come under challenge. In 1997 ASEAN was faced with an Asian economic crisis triggered by currency speculators and in 1997 to 1998 with a regional pollution haze problem caused by illegal land-clearance fires in Indonesia. ASEAN’s ineffectiveness in these crises brought internal scrutiny to bear on ASEAN’s policy of non-intervention in domestic affairs. As a result, since 1999 ASEAN foreign ministers have discussed these and other transnational problems—illegal migration, terrorism, and the drug trade—that call for collective responses. They have also considered allowing ASEAN to oversee electoral and governance processes within member states. In 1999 a number of ASEAN countries defied the long-standing ASEAN position that East Timor was an internal matter for Indonesia and sent peace-keeping forces to the island to help quell the violence instigated there by anti-independence militia backed by Indonesian armed forces. In 2005 ASEAN placed public pressure on the government of Myanmar to allow an ASEAN delegation to visit Myanmar and assess what progress had been made in human rights and democratization. With the aid of the United States and European Union, ASEAN also persuaded Myanmar to relinquish its role as ASEAN chair. ASEAN’s actions in the 1990s suggest increased sensitivity to the negative effects of individual member nations on the organization’s international standing as well as the beginning of openness toward intervention in the domestic affairs of its members. Toward Realization At its December 2005 summit, ASEAN agreed to institute an ASEAN Charter by 2020 to provide what Malaysian Prime Minister Badawi has called a “mini-constitution,” a document that will establish an institutional framework for ASEAN as well as a legal identity recognized by the United Nations. The older members—Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand—want ASEAN to become something more than an association. Institutionally strong and mostly democratic, they might more readily welcome a rules-governed organization similar to the European Union. Others with institutionally weak, authoritarian governments, such as Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, and Vietnam, are wary of placing their domestic policies under greater international scrutiny and favor the status quo. If the former nations prevail it will augur well for the realization of an East Asian community with the potential to evolve into an East Asian Union. </span> __An East Asian community__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> composed of the 16 EAS participants would represent more than 60 percent of the world’s population and possess a combined GDP greater than the European Union. It </span>__could provide significantly increased trade benefits to its members, help dampen Sino-Japanese rivalry, ease the present tensions in the region over Japan’s Pacific War, encourage more cooperative attitudes toward the issue of natural resource exploitation in East Asia, promote engagement over containment, and__** __prevent domination of the region by any major power**.**__**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The determining factor will be ASEAN’s ability to provide the leadership necessary to create a strong, independent East Asian Union.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a __clear sign__ of U.S. withdrawal can motivate __sustainable__ regional security cooperation</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Carpenter and Bandow 4 - *</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND </span>** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute **<span style="font-size: 10.5pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">(</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR</span>
<span class="Underline">The security treaties with the United States and the U.S. troop presence allow the diversion of financial resources to domestic priorities. And relying on the United States for security **avoids painful debates about what kind of policy those countries need to pursue.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The U.S. security blanket is entirely too comfortable for Washington’s clients. </span>**Without a <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">decisive move</span> by the United States** to take away that security blanket by a certain date, changes in the security posture of South Korea and Japan will be very slow to occur.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Second, the United States should encourage the various nations of East Asia to take greater responsibility for the security and stability of their region. In **limited and at times hesitant ways** that process is taking place even without U.S. encouragement. ASEAN has begun to address security issues, most notably taking an interest in the disorders in Indonesia that threatened to spiral out of control in the late 1990s and that continue to pose a problem. Australia assumed a leadership role in helping to resolve the East Timor crisis. It was revealing that Canberra became more proactive after the United States declined to send peacekeeping troops or otherwise become deeply involved in that situation. 37 According to the conventional wisdom that U.S. leadership is imperative lest allies and client states despair and fail to deal with regional security problems, Australia’s actions suggest just the opposite.</span> **When countries in a region facing a security problem cannot offload that problem onto the United States, they take action to contain a crisis and defend their own interests.** </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">More recently, Australia has developed a more defined and robust regional strategy. In a June 2003 speech, Foreign Minister Alexander Downer stated that Australia would not necessarily turn to the United Nations before acting in crises that could affect its security. Instead, Canberra was prepared to join— and sometimes even lead— coalitions of the willing to address urgent regional challenges. Downer spoke as Australia prepared to send 2,000 police officers and supporting military personnel to the Solomon Islands, which had experienced such an epidemic of violence and corruption that it verged on being a failed state. Earlier, Prime Minister John Howard had told Australian lawmakers that having failed states in its neighborhood threatened Australia’s interests, because such states could become havens for criminals and political extremists. 38 Perhaps most revealing, the Australian government plans to double its defense spending over the next three years with the intent of becoming a much more serious military player. 39 Third, Washington should indicate to Tokyo that it no longer objects to Japan’s assuming a more active political and military posture in East Asia. Quite the contrary, U.S. officials ought to adopt the position that, as the principal indigenous great power, Japan will be expected to help stabilize East Asia, contribute to the resolution of disputes, and contain disruptive or expansionist threats that might emerge. Washington also should use its diplomatic influence to encourage political and security cooperation between Japan and its neighbors, but U.S. policymakers must not let East Asian apprehension about a more assertive Japan dictate American policy and keep the United States in its role as regional policeman. It is reasonable to explore with Tokyo avenues of cooperation in those areas where there is a sufficient convergence of interests. That cooperation should not, however, take the form of a new alliance. Proposals to reform and strengthen the alliance are unwise. 40 They will perpetuate Japan’s unhealthy dependence on the United States even as they arouse China’s suspicions of a U.S.–Japanese attempt to contain the People’s Republic. An ongoing security dialogue and occasional joint military exercises would be more appropriate than a formal alliance for East Asia’s security needs in the twenty-first century. Elaborate, formal treaty commitments are a bad idea in general. They are excessively rigid and can lock the United States into commitments that may make sense under one set of conditions but become ill-advised or even counterproductive when conditions change. Beyond that general objection, a U.S.–Japanese alliance would be likely to create special problems in the future. Such an alliance would provide tangible evidence to those in the People’s Republic who contend that Washington is intent on adopting a containment policy directed against China. 41 </span>The United States should retain the ability to work with Japan and other powers if Beijing’s ambitions threaten to lead to Chinese dominance of the region, but Washington must be wary of creating a self-fulfilling prophecy. An informal security relationship with Japan would preserve the flexibility to block China’s hegemony, if that danger emerges, without needlessly antagonizing Beijing. **America still can have a potent power projection capability with a reduced military presence based in Guam and other U.S. territories in the central and west-central Pacific.** </span>
**Specially, withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents great power war**
**Lee, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security Cooperation in Northeast Asia</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The idea of multilateral security cooperation in Northeast Asia is not a recent one. </span>__Since__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__88__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__Korea has advocated regional security cooperation, and in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__94__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__Korea officially proposed the Northeast Asia Security Dialogue__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (NEASED) </span>__at the ASEAN Regional Forum__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ARF). Serious discussion of multilateral security cooperation in Northeast Asia started in 2005 during the Six Party Talks to resolve the nuclear crisis on the Korean Peninsula. In fact, the Six Party Talks have been an important generator of innovative ideas, and participants in the Six Party Talks have gradually realized the importance of a multilateral security mechanism in Northeast Asia, even if they do not share identical interests in such a mechanism.6 From Korea’s perspective, a semi-regional arrangement like the Six Party Talks produces five main benefits.7 First, a multilateral security arrangement in Northeast Asia composed of the United States, China, Japan, Russia, North Korea, and South Korea will provide insurance to the concerned parties that the agreements struck at the Six Party Talks will not be violated by the participants. Cheating and lack of trust are among the fundamental problems in solving the Korean nuclear crisis, and a multilateral binding of agreements can help solve the problems by increasing transparency and the transaction costs of violating the agreements. Second, </span>__a multilateral security arrangement in Northeast Asia is fundamentally a global security arrangement, as it includes all the global powers except the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">E</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">uropean </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nion. The United States and China unofficially form the Group of Two (G2), Japan is an economic superpower, and Russia used to be the leader of the Eastern bloc. </span>__The high concentration of superpowers in Northeast Asia poses a threat to Korea because **an outbreak of great-power conflict in the region will definitely devastate Korea, if not the world.** Therefore, **Korea has reason to promote a multilateral security mechanism** that increases transparency among global powers and functions as a confidence-building measure.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Third, </span>__voluntary or involuntary betrayal by the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__has preoccupied many Koreans and security experts.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Some Koreans felt betrayed when the United States agreed to the division of the Korean peninsula. The Park Chung-hee government felt abandoned when the United States withdrew a significant portion of U.S. soldiers from Korea, and was taken aback by rapprochement between the United States and China. Many Koreans got upset when the United States supported the authoritarian Korean government and kept silent during the Kwangju massacre in 1980. They again felt betrayed when it was rumored that the Clinton administration planned air strikes against North Korea without informing South Korea. And they were upset with the unilateral foreign policy stance of the George W. Bush administration, including its decision to pull the second infantry division out of Korea. </span>__A multilateral security arrangement in Northeast Asia will mitigate the security concern of Korea when the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__either voluntarily or involuntarily defects from its commitment to Korea.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Fourth, </span>__multilateral security cooperation in Northeast Asia is necessary to **establish a peace system on the Korean peninsula** and ultimately unify Korea.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Many Korean people doubt that the major powers, including the United States, want the unification of the Korean peninsula. </span>__Korea wants to deal with these powers transparently through a multilateral security cooperation mechanism.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Fifth, seeing the latest global financial crisis and the rise of China, many Koreans recognize the need to adjust Korea’s external strategy to the changing geoeconomic world. </span>__Making exclusive ties with the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__may be a high-risk investment in a past hegemon__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, while exclusive ties with China would be a high-risk investment in an uncertain future. </span>__In this transitional period for geoeconomics, multilateral security cooperation is an attractive partial exit option for Korea.__ __A multilateral security mechanism in Northeast Asia appeals to Korea, so **if voice and loyalty in the U.S.-Korea relationship do not reveal positive correlations, then Korea will pay more attention to multilateral regional options.**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Moreover, </span>**__if the U.S. capability and credibility in delivering its security promises to alliance partners are questioned, there will be fewer veto powers in Korean politics against a multilateral security mechanism in Northeast Asia__**__, particularly when such an option still maintains a loose form of the U.S.-Korea alliance.__



**Additionally, withdrawal forces a new bilateral alliance that allows the ROK to expand its global influence**
**Przystup 2009**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- senior research fellow at the Institute of National Strategic Studies, National Defense University (James, Joint U.S.-Korea Academic Studies, KEI, “Completing the Strategic Transformation: The U.S. Military Alliances with Korea and Japan” in “Shifting Strategic & Diplomatic Relations with the Koreas.” [[http://www.keia.org/Publications/JointAcademicStudies/2009/Przystup.pdf|www.keia.org/Publications/JointAcademicStudies/2009/Przystup.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Shaping a fuller and broader partnership.</span> __The bilateral defense and foreign ministry dialogues are moving to adapt the alliance and develop a common vision to advance mutual interests. The U.S.-ROK Security Policy Initiative has produced agreement on a common vision of the alliance, but further efforts on the part of both governments are required to broaden and deepen political support for a transformed alliance. If reshaped as an equal partnership between two democracies committed to defending shared values and common interests, the alliance could weather most developments in North-South relations or the region__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Rather than being organized against a specific threat, it would serve a number of common Korean-U.S. interests, </span>__including__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> maintaining stability on the peninsula in the context of either a DPRK collapse or peaceful reunification; </span>__working with other Asian countries and institutions to enhance regional security cooperation; supporting international (UN) and other regional (Association of Southeast Asian Nations, NATO) efforts to stabilize failed states, combat terrorism, and slow WMD proliferation; and hedging against the emergence of an aggressive China__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Such a vision of the U.S.-ROK alliance could engender the requisite political support on both sides of the Pacific. Indeed, it reflects the calls in South Korea for transforming the relationship into “a comprehensive, dynamic, and future-oriented alliance.” **<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">This kind of a mature partnership with the United States would allow South Korea to extend its global influence</span>.**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Defense transformation and strategic flexibility.</span> __A transformed alliance **should reflect the ROK’s desire to achieve greater control over its own security** and destiny while concurrently serving mutual regional and global interests__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__This will require further changes in command structures, procedures for contingency planning, and force posture__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The Combined Forces Command will need to be replaced by a new mechanism to coordinate U.S. and ROK military operations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A sustainable long-term U.S. posture in the ROK should be sufficient to assure Seoul of the mutual defense commitment, fill critical gaps in ROK capabilities, allow for rapid augmentation to repulse any aggressor, and provide the United States with a reliable foothold to support global defense operations. </span>__The U.S. contribution to defense of the ROK **will shift from a heavy ground presence** **to reinforcements and firepower provided by air and naval forces**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. With regard to off-peninsula operations, given the ROK’s desire to avoid any provocation of China, Seoul seems likely to want further clarification of the circumstances in which U.S. forces might act, as well as advance notification of unilateral operations by U.S. forces in Korea.</span>
**Active South Korean diplomacy cements East Asian regionalism and solves multiple wars**
**Choi** **8** <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">-</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Young-Jong, Professor of International Relations – Catholic University, “South Korea’s Middle Power: Diplomacy and Regional Security Cooperation”, AsiaViews, November, http://new.asiaviews.org/?content=ger53rger567664&voices= 20081120141855)</span>

<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;"> [[#_Toc267392094]]</span>__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">key role</span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;"> in the field of regional cooperation</span>__</span>__.__ <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">South Korea has the ability to push East Asian regionalism forward in a way that Japan, China and the</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">U</span>__</span>__nited__ <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">S</span>__</span>__tates, as the region’s major powers,__ <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">are unable to</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The limited capabilities of Japan and China in this regard are a result of historical antagonisms and fears of a future hegemony. </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">South Korea, which has no</span>__</span> __history or future__ <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">prospects of regional hegemony</span>__</span>__,__ <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">can thus be a </span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">major actor</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, especially in cooperation with the United States, </span>__i__<span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">n future moves towards regional integration</span>__</span>__.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dr. Young Jong Choi, a professor International Relations at the Catholic University of Korea, was the keynote speaker at the Asian Voices series on October 2, hosted by the Sasakawa Peace Foundation USA in Washington, DC. The following is an excerpt of the paper presented by Dr. Young. The South Korean government of President Lee Myung Bak is now immersed in cleaning up the messes inflicted upon the nation by the previous two leftist governments: big government and pro-North Korea policies. While defining that period as the “lost ten years”, the Lee government is attempting to turn the clock back by implementing neoliberal reforms and restoring the strained ROK-US alliance. However, there is a strong political backlash against these efforts. Domestic reform is not easy not only because of Lee Myung Bak’s incompetence and strategic errors, but also because of the power and creativity of leftist organizations strengthened under the previous two governments. On the foreign policy front, “turning back the clock” is neither feasible anymore due to a highly mobilized, globally renowned domestic opposition, nor plausible since the status quo ante no longer exists. The most imaginative accomplishment carried out by this opposition was the creation of the “myth of mad cow disease” from US beef, which drove tens of thousands of South Koreans into the streets for several months. I think it was largely an outpouring of anti-Americanism disguised in the name of public health and safety. In addition, the world surrounding South Korea right now is not what it used to be ten years ago, when South Korea began its estrangement into a “wonderland”, where the obsession with Pyongyang turned South Korea blind toward the outside world. It is much more fluid and complicated without a clear dividing line between friends and enemies. </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">The US-China relationship is oscillating from potential</span>__ __<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">enemy to strategic partner</span>__</span>__.__ <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">The US-North Korean relationship is</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> also </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">not </span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">fixed</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> in a state of permanent antagonism</span></span>**.** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">The Japan-China relationship is also moving beyond the stage of perennial suspicion</span></span>**.** <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">Russia is back onto the main stage</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">of regional power politics</span></span>**.** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">China is rapidly rising, and</span> __<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">Japan is</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">normalizing itself into</span> __<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">a major military power. North Korea’s</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">survival </span>__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">tactics are</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">ever</span> __<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">evolving</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Even a properly working US-ROK security alliance, as good as ten years ago, may fall short of handling these new challenges for South Korea. However, the US and South Korea still have to work out a concrete design for their future alliance. Moreover, North Korea is too unruly and shrewd for South Korea to discipline even with the current “engagement with reciprocity” approach by the Lee government. President Lee Myung-bak’s backward turn in foreign policy, restoring close ties with the US and Japan, has only caused North Korea’s anger and China’s concern. Seoul lost a lot of social capital in its relationship with the United States during the “beef incident”. And the territorial dispute with Japan is ever aggravating. The US-Japan-South Korea triangular cooperation that has brought both security and prosperity to South Korea during most of the post-WWII period does not seem to be a viable option any longer for South Korea given the absence of common enemies, the lack of trust between Japan and South Korea, and insufficient domestic support. South Korea’s Security Concern North Korea’s nuclear threat is now taken as a serious problem inside the Blue House. Even though it is quite a change from the Roh era, this threat perception is still not widely shared among South Korean people. North Korea is still considered more as a brother in need than a threat to be stopped. Moreover, the US has shown a strong commitment to denuclearizing North Korea, and other neighboring major powers have shared interests in stopping North Korea’s nuclear program. With this insurance in place, costs loomed larger to South Koreans than actual risks. Therefore, their major concern was to secure a seat at the negotiating table and avoid taking undue financial burdens. This attitude was also reflected in the pro-North Korean stance by the Roh government in dealing with Pyongyang’s nuclear program. From the perspective of South Korea, “the six-party talks” has worked relatively well in containing North Korea’s nuclear threats even if it failed to denuclearize North Korea. South Koreans feel increasingly more threatened by China and Japan. China, South Korea’s number one trading partner, is a land of opportunity for Korean businesses. China also holds a key to North Korea’s nuclear problem. At one point former President Roh Moo-hyun appeared to have expected that China would elevate South Korea to the position of a balancer in Northeast Asia. Then came China’s attempt to incorporate a part of ancient Korea’s history into its own. South Koreans came to realize that China was no different from other ascending powers, mindful of wielding their newly gained power for their own national interests. The South Korean government had to deal with China as such. Besides alignment with the United States, South Korea is exploring the possibility of a strategic partnership with China. Even though its concrete shape is up in the air, it is a substantial departure from South Korea’s traditional diplomacy. Similarly, South Korea can no longer take Japan for granted. South Koreans have considered Japan to be under a permanent obligation to help or support them whenever necessary, as penance for its colonial past. Japan has not betrayed this expectation partly due to guilty-feelings and partly out of self-interests. Japan is now accelerating its move to become a normal state by shedding its memory of an inglorious past, beefing up its military strengths, and pursuing active and assertive diplomacy. Japan is not as hesitant in confronting South Korea as in the past, be it the history textbook issue or territorial disputes. Instead of being a passive state constantly in fear of a rising China and an uncontrollable Russia, Japan is actively engaging China and Russia. South Korea’s strategic value will decrease substantially if China is no longer something to be contained. In that case, a normal Japan may easily bypass South Korea in regional politics. Then, Japan would turn into an independent variable and South Korea has to deal with it as such. Unlike during the cold war period, the security environment surrounding South Korea is very fluid, dynamic, and uncertain. Nothing is a given for South Korea, including the ROK-US bilateral security alliance; and even a properly working US-ROK alliance will not do to relieve South Korea’s security concerns. Deepening bilateral relations with China, Japan, and North Korea will offer only a partial solution, given South Korea’s limited leverage over them. South Koreans are feeling increasingly frustrated over their complete inability to influence North Korea, China, the United States and even Japan. If the nationalism and anti-Americanism that brought Roh to presidency five years ago arose largely from elated self-confidence and national pride, the recent rise of nationalist feelings in South Korea more reflects anxiety, fear, and frustration. </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">Under the circumstances, South Korea has good reasons to go “regional”</span>__</span>__.__ <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">A regional security structure can add </span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">stability</span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;"> and </span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">certainty</span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;"> to South Korea’s security environment</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Depending on the strength of institutional norms and rules, </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">South Korea can</span>__</span> __also__ <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">lessen power asymmetry vis-a-vis China, Japan, and even North Korea</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">A regional security structure will provide breathing space to South Korea</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which is unavailable in a tight bilateral alliance with the United States. It will also have the effect of boosting South Korea’s self-esteem, as well as the legitimacy of political leaders. </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">Besides an </span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">institutional lock-in effect</span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;"> with China and Japan, a regional structure will be useful to manage North Korea</span>__</span>__.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> North Korea’s nuclear issue is currently deadlocked in spite of China’s high leverage against North Korea, as well as the “carrot and stick” approach applied by the hegemonic US. The nuclear issue may be embedded in a broader regional security framework to come up with a sustainable solution. A more serious problem for South Korea is a post-nuclear era North Korea. To reform North Korea in a sustainable and non-threatening way while minimizing costs to South Korea will be a daunting task, and a multilateral approach will be better for burden sharing. Again, territorial issues in the region can in no way be resolved bilaterally: they require sustained effort by regional organizations. South Korea’s Middle Power Activism Regional security cooperation is in South Korea’s interest. Moreover, South Korea is in a good position to take the initiative for regional institutional cooperation. The US and North Korea are very well known for their sensitivity to state sovereignty. Accordingly, the US has quite often opted for unilateralism over multilateralism, and North Korea has even refused to join the international society. China is slightly behind but still very sensitive to its sovereignty. Even though Japan is far less sensitive, Japan’s leadership is still a cause of concern for countries like China and South Korea. South Korea, a medium-level power with great enthusiasm for an active foreign policy, is best suited to take the initiative. As a junior partner to the US, South Korea is used to compromising national sovereignty for security purposes</span>**__.__** <span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">South Korea is well known for its enthusiasm for regional institution-building</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Starting from the ASPAC (Asia Pacific Council) initiated by Park Chung-hee in 1966, South Korean presidents have continuously shown great interests in regional economic and security cooperation. In recent years, Kim Dae-jung gave a clearer shape to the future East Asian Community by initiating the East Asian Vision Group and the East Asian Study Group in 1998. Roh Moo-hyun ambitiously pushed the Northeast Asian cooperation initiative. Building a peace regime on the Korean peninsula, as well as a multilateral security cooperation regime in Northeast Asia, were his top foreign policy priorities. This kind of active regional policy is not strange to a middle power like South Korea. The concept of a middle power as a distinctive category of actor in international relations is not unproblematic, particularly concerning its definition. Some define it with attributes like GDP, population, and size; and others define it with behavior, particularly with active internationalist diplomacy. In recent years, constructivists treat it as a self-created identity or ideology. South Korea may lag behind traditional middle powers like Canada, Australia and most Nordic countries in terms of diplomatic capabilities and commitment to internationalism. However, South Korea has long maintained a strong identity as a middle power. This diplomatic activism is in part related to South Korea’s domestic politics, particularly the five-year, single-term presidential system. Under this restrictive system, South Korean presidents have difficulty time-wise in successfully carrying out their own domestic agendas. Foreign policy is an attractive alternative to boost their popularity and legitimacy. Such an incentive is even stronger for presidents from minority parties. This was the case with Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun, and it is not coincidental that they were the two strongest advocates of an active foreign policy in South Korea’s history. South Koreans have also learned from history that South Korea should not be excluded from a table set to discuss critical regional issues. </span><span class="Heading3Char">__<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">An active foreign policy </span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">holds a key</span>____<span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;"> to deal with this concern</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span class="Underline">**Increased South Korean independence is key to democracy promotion and regional economic cooperation**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Korea Times 6/30/10** (“Importance of Korean development model rising” pg online @ lexisnexis//au)</span>

<span class="Underline"> South Korea's spectacular rise as an economy and democracy **provides a valuable model for up-and-coming countries**, experts said<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Wednesday in Washington, D.C. </span>At a forum<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> co-organized by </span>the Asia Foundation, scholars discussed<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the lessons to be learned from </span>Korea's transformation<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from one of the world's poorest nations </span>to rank as the 14th largest economy. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The forum came as the country, the first to evolve from a major recipient of aid to a donor nation, is considering exporting its development model abroad. </span>Lee Jay-min, a professor at Yonsei University, underlined the importance of an outward-looking development strategy and global integration<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in creating a powerful economy. He said that while other underdeveloped countries attempted to reduce foreign dependency by bolstering local production of industrialized products, Korea got ahead by employing a timely export-oriented approach. 'All economic miracles in the last sixty years have occurred through raising the degree of integration,' he said. 'Integration is a necessary condition for successful growth, making it possible to access the market, capital and technology provided by advanced countries.' During its industrialization, Korea was able protect its domestic market, give subsidies to its industries, and regulate foreign investment by exporting freely to advanced countries. </span>Professors Kwack Sung-yeung of Howard University and Lee Young-sun of Hallym University pointed to uncompromising leadership as key for emerging countries<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, citing that of former President Park Chung-hee, who spearheaded the industrialization. His determination to break, once and for all, the vicious cycle of poverty and economic stagnation inspired the Korean people to come together and mobilized Korea's resources for national reconstruction, they said. Kwak and Lee said </span>Korea's zeal for education as well as government expansion of educational institutions also contributed greatly to the rise. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Looking to the future, </span>Professor Park Myung-lim of Yonsei University said the country can expand on the model by acting as a regional mediator. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to Park, </span>such a role would help stabilize East Asia, where economic cooperation is increasingly important but major powers still jockey to secure their interests.</span>
<span class="Underline">**Democracy Promotion checks global nuclear war** </span>
**Muravchik 01 –** Resident Scholar at AEI
(Josh, “Democracy and Nuclear Peace”, July, http://www.npec-web.org/Syllabus/Muravchik.pdf)

__The greatest impetus for **world peace** -- and perforce of **nuclear peace** -- is the spread of democracy__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. In a famous article, and subsequent book, Francis Fukuyama argued that democracy's extension was leading to "the end of history." By this he meant the conclusion of man's quest for the right social order, but he also meant the "diminution of the likelihood of large-scale conflict between states." 1 Fukuyama's phrase was intentionally provocative, even tongue-in-cheek, but he was pointing to two down-to-earth historical observations: that democracies are more peaceful than other kinds of government and that the world is growing more democratic. Neither point has gone unchallenged. Only a few decades ago, as distinguished an observer of international relations as George Kennan made a claim quite contrary to the first of these assertions. Democracies, he said, were slow to anger, but once aroused "a democracy … fights in anger … to the bitter end." 2 Kennan's view was strongly influenced by the policy of "unconditional surrender" pursued in World War II. But subsequent experience, such as the negotiated settlements America sought in Korea and Vietnam proved him wrong. Democracies are not only slow to anger but also quick to compromise. And to forgive. Notwithstanding the insistence on unconditional surrender, America treated Japan and that part of Germany that it occupied with extraordinary generosity. In recent years a burgeoning literature has discussed the peacefulness of democracies. Indeed </span>__the proposition that democracies do not go to war with one another has been described by one political scientist as being "**as close as anything we have to an empirical law in international relations**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." 3 Some of those who find enthusiasm for democracy off- putting have challenged this proposition, but their challenges have only served as empirical tests that have confirmed its robustness. For example, the academic Paul Gottfried and the columnist-turned-politician Patrick J. Buchanan have both instanced democratic England's declaration of war against democratic Finland during World War II. 4 In fact, after much procrastination, England did accede to the pressure of its Soviet ally to declare war against Finland which was allied with Germany. But the declaration was purely formal: no fighting ensued between England and Finland. Surely this is an exception that proves the rule. The strongest exception I can think of is the war between the nascent state of Israel and the Arabs in 1948. Israel was an embryonic democracy and Lebanon, one of the Arab belligerents, was also democratic within the confines of its peculiar confessional division of power. Lebanon, however, was a reluctant party to the fight. Within the councils of the Arab League, it opposed the war but went along with its larger confreres when they opted to attack. Even so, Lebanon did little fighting and soon sued for peace. Thus, in the case of Lebanon against Israel, as in the case of England against Finland, democracies nominally went to war against democracies when they were dragged into conflicts by authoritarian allies. The political scientist Bruce Russett offers a different challenge to the notion that democracies are more peaceful. "That democracies are in general, in dealing with all kinds of states, more peaceful than are authoritarian or other non- democratically constituted states … is a much more controversial proposition than 'merely' that democracies are peaceful in their dealings with each other, and one for which there is little systematic evidence," he says. 5 Russett cites his own and other statistical explorations which show that while democracies rarely fight one another they often fight against others. The trouble with such studies, however, is that they rarely examine the question of who started or caused a war. To reduce the data to a form that is quantitatively measurable, it is easier to determine whether a conflict has occurred between two states than whose fault it was. But the latter question is all important. Democracies may often go to war against dictatorships because the dictators see them as prey or underestimate their resolve. Indeed, such examples abound. Germany might have behaved more cautiously in the summer of 1914 had it realized that England would fight to vindicate Belgian neutrality and to support France. Later, Hitler was emboldened by his notorious contempt for the flabbiness of the democracies. North Korea almost surely discounted the likelihood of an American military response to its Page 2 invasion of the South after Secretary of State Dean Acheson publicly defined America's defense perimeter to exclude the Korean peninsula (a declaration which merely confirmed existing U.S. policy). In 1990, Saddam Hussein's decision to swallow Kuwait was probably encouraged by the inference he must have taken from the statements and actions of American officials that Washington would offer no forceful resistance. Russett says that those who claim democracies are in general more peaceful "would have us believe that the United States was regularly on the defensive, rarely on the offensive, during the Cold War." 6 But that is not quite right: the word "regularly" distorts the issue. A victim can sometimes turn the tables on an aggressor, but that does not make the victim equally bellicose. None would dispute that Napoleon was responsible for the Napoleonic wars or Hitler for World War II in Europe, but after a time their victims seized the offensive. So in the Cold War, the United States may have initiated some skirmishes (although in fact it rarely did), but the struggle as a whole was driven one-sidedly. The Soviet policy was "class warfare"; the American policy was "containment." The so-called revisionist historians argued that America bore an equal or larger share of responsibility for the conflict. But Mikhail Gorbachev made nonsense of their theories when, in the name of glasnost and perestroika, he turned the Soviet Union away from its historic course. The Cold War ended almost instantly--as he no doubt knew it would. "We would have been able to avoid many … difficulties if the democratic process had developed normally in our country," he wrote. 7 To render judgment about the relative peacefulness of states or systems, we must ask not only who started a war but why. In particular we should consider what in Catholic Just War doctrine is called "right intention," which means roughly: what did they hope to get out of it? In the few cases in recent times in which wars were initiated by democracies, there were often motives other than aggrandizement, for example, when America invaded Grenada. To be sure, Washington was impelled by self-interest more than altruism, primarily its concern for the well-being of American nationals and its desire to remove a chip, however tiny, from the Soviet game board. But America had no designs upon Grenada, and the invaders were greeted with joy by the Grenadan citizenry. After organizing an election, America pulled out. In other cases, democracies have turned to war in the face of provocation, such as Israel's invasion of Lebanon in 1982 to root out an enemy sworn to its destruction or Turkey's invasion of Cyprus to rebuff a power-grab by Greek nationalists. In contrast, the wars launched by dictators, such as Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, North Korea's of South Korea, the Soviet Union's of Hungary and Afghanistan, often have aimed at conquest or subjugation. The big exception to this rule is colonialism. The European powers conquered most of Africa and Asia, and continued to hold their prizes as Europe democratized. No doubt many of the instances of democracies at war that enter into the statistical calculations of researchers like Russett stem from the colonial era. But colonialism was a legacy of Europe's pre-democratic times, and it was abandoned after World War II. Since then, I know of no case where a democracy has initiated warfare without significant provocation or for reasons of sheer aggrandizement, but there are several cases where dictators have done so. One interesting piece of Russett's research should help to point him away from his doubts that democracies are more peaceful in general. He aimed to explain why democracies are more peaceful toward each other. Immanuel Kant was the first to observe, or rather to forecast, the pacific inclination of democracies. He reasoned that "citizens … will have a great hesitation in … calling down on themselves all the miseries of war." 8 But this valid insight is incomplete. There is a deeper explanation. Democracy is not just a mechanism; it entails a spirit of compromise and self-restraint. At bottom, </span>**__democracy is the willingness to resolve civil disputes without recourse to violence.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> **Nations that embrace this ethos in the conduct of their domestic affairs are naturally more predisposed to embrace it in their dealings with other nations**. Russett aimed to explain why democracies are more peaceful toward one another. To do this, he constructed two models. One hypothesized that the cause lay in the mechanics of democratic decision-making (the "structural/institutional model"), the other that it lay in the democratic ethos (the "cultural/normative model"). His statistical assessments led him to conclude that: "almost always the cultural/normative model shows a consistent effect on conflict occurrence and war. The structural/institutional model sometimes provides a significant relationship but often does not." 9 If it is the ethos that makes democratic states more peaceful toward each other, would not that ethos also make them more peaceful in general? Russett implies that the answer is no, because to his mind a critical element in the peaceful behavior of democracies toward other democracies is their anticipation of a conciliatory attitude by their counterpart. But this is too pat. The attitude of live-and-let-live cannot be turned on and off like a spigot. The citizens and officials of democracies recognize that other states, however governed, have legitimate interests, and they are disposed to try to accommodate those interests except when the other party's behavior seems threatening or outrageous.</span>



**Regional security structures and South Korean soft power is key to Myanmar democracy**
**Auslin ‘5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Teaches Japanese History – Yale and Dir. Project on Japan-U.S. Relations, Orbis, “Japan and South Korea: The New East Asian Core”, 49:3, Summer, ScienceDirect)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A roadmap for Tokyo and Seoul's security cooperation exists in their current participation in regional multilateral forums. Both Seoul and Tokyo are members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Community and the </span>__asean__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Regional Forum. The latter in particular </span>__provides the only ministerial-level opportunity for discussing Asian security issues__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.15 </span>__Yet the wide political, economic, and social disparities among its member nations prevent it from forming any type of durable communal identity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As for Chinese attempts to recast multilateral organizations, these gain traction only because of concerns over China's future strength and not due to any natural formation of international bonds. Moreover, at the International Institute of Strategic Studies’ 2003 Asian security conference held in Singapore, then-jda chief Ishiba agreed with then-U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz that East Asia did not need a nato-type self-defense organization for now. nato, of course, was a self-defense organization, and creating one in East Asia would mean identifying an enemy and dividing the region into two blocs. Such a move would serve simply to exacerbate tensions and suspicions, China would undoubtedly feel targeted, and it is inconceivable in any case that East Asian nations today trust one another enough to create such an organization. </span>__If the ultimate goal of the area's governments is to create some type of all-inclusive multilateral organization__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, East Asia, then, must leapfrog the European experience to begin forging a region-wide mechanism. But </span>__no such community of interests currently exists to allow for that type of evolution__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Precisely **the kind of shared interests that mark the Japan-South Korea relationship**, however, **can lead those two to forming the core of a new security architecture in East Asia**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in ways that asean and Chinese initiatives are unable to imitate. Despite limitations on broader initiatives, Japan and Korea can take the first substantive steps towards recasting the regional security environment. They can adopt the asean Regional Forum's planned three-stage evolution of confidence-building measures, preventive diplomacy, and conflict resolution to East Asian problems, working in cooperation with both the United States and asean, and perhaps even with states such as China. Although the tcog and other initiatives noted above have already built confidence in the Japan-South Korea relationship, a viable conflict resolution mechanism will take years to build. That, however, is no reason not to capitalize on the improvements already in place. Similarly, </span>__a true Japan-Korea fta would not only be an enormous stimulus toward regional free trade, it would further bind the two nations together on security issues.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Negotiating the agreement will be difficult, and inequalities in production will make a long lead-time necessary for it to be workable, but </span>__there is already the political will to start exploring the concept__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__With that will come a clearer recognition of the common interests linking the two states.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Indeed, </span>__the specter of such an agreement has already spurred calls from Beijing for a China-Japan-Korea fta, **which would have to include strict provisions for transparency, juridical mechanisms, and confidence-building measures**. **The emergence of such a relationship, and the potential participation of China, will likely spill over to larger issues of human rights and security**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Broader Face of Security The </span>__Japan-South Korea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> relationship could influence East Asian politics in yet another way. The two </span>__represent powerful examples of the liberal democratic system__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__Their undeniable social and economic advances should be leveraged into a regional role encouraging the spread of the rule of law, market liberalization, and social progressiveness__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—in short, a joint program to strengthen civil society in Asia</span>__. **The expansion of democracy** in Thailand, Mongolia, Taiwan, and other states offers a historic opportunity for Japan and South Korea to shape the future.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In particular, </span>__the two can identify liberalizing and at-risk nations, targeting aid and expanded relations.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> They can increase the number of academic, intellectual, and artistic exchanges and grassroots programs with those countries; negotiate more favorable loan packages; and serve as a repository of technical and legal expertise. Cultural exchange organizations such as the Japan and Korea Foundations can provide initial funding, and established venues such as the Japan Center for International Exchange (jcie) and the International House of Tokyo offer the infrastructure and expertise for running meaningful exchange programs. Not least important, </span>__this perhaps is the most attractive way to interact with China, seeking to integrate it more fully into a new set of regional norms__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> defined by the success of Japan and Korea. In the same way, </span>__the Japan-South Korea relationship can serve as the nucleus of a liberal bloc in East Asia designed to project a common political front against failing or rogue states__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__The case of North Korea is obvious__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and perhaps unique, but </span>__regional pressure on Myanmar could also be more effective with a push led by Japan and South Korea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Japan-South Korea relationship can also help manage the transition to a peaceful reunification of the Korean peninsula. The necessary human and financial capital can come largely from those two countries, and a clear Japanese commitment to helping produce a liberal, democratic, stable, one-Korea will go a long way toward dispelling the lingering resentments of colonialism and war. Taiwan, of course, is the biggest wildcard in all of this. By rights, it should be part of the Japan-South Korea relationship, as another liberal, democratic, free-market state. The unique problem of Sino-Taiwanese relations, the longstanding U.S. position against Taiwanese independence, and the effective diplomatic isolation of Taiwan due to Chinese pressure make it an extremely sensitive issue. Yet the trends discussed in this article affect Taiwan just as much as they affect Japan and South Korea. </span>**__If the Japan-South Korea relationship strengthens__** __and evolves to play a role like the one envisioned here, then the course of events in East Asia may make it unavoidable that Taiwan will be seen as a natural partner of the new East Asian core__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In that case, </span>__Beijing will have to decide the direction it wants to go, and it will be up to the coalition of liberal states in East Asia to make it clear that there is only one path that will benefit all players in the region. Tokyo and Seoul's ultimate goal in strengthening their bonds is maintaining peace and stability in Northeast Asia.__ **__The combined economic, military, and cultural power of the two nations is enough to start the process of forming a durable security architecture centered on these two democratic, free-market states.__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A conscious bilateral policy to work for stability and to spread political and economic norms in the region would naturally attract other states sharing those values, particularly Taiwan and the Philippines.</span>
**Myanmar democracy is key to stability.**
**Myint-U ‘6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thant, Author of “The River of Lost Footsteps: Histories of Burma”, NYT, “Don’t Force Democracy in Burma”, 9-29, L/N)</span>
__For many on the outside, the story of Myanmar's last 20 years has been one of a pro-democracy movement held down by repression__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. But the generals see it as a civil war finally coming to an end with the collapse of the communist insurgency in 1989 and the cease-fire agreements, in the late 1980's and early 1990's, between the army and 17 of its remaining battlefield opponents. For the generals, the near conclusion of the war is the very beginning of a long state-building exercise (on their terms), rather than a time to hand over power to the politicians they distrust. </span>__We incorrectly see Myanmar as a ''democracy transition'' problem__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, sort of a Velvet Revolution gone wrong. </span>__But it actually represents a post-conflict challenge__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, more like Afghanistan or the war-torn societies of sub-Saharan Africa -- and therefore incredibly complex. And what of sanctions? In 1962, the military's chief, Gen. Ne Win, and his Revolutionary Council sealed off the country, banning almost all external trade and investment, kicking out foreign aid programs, nationalizing businesses, expelling ethnic Indian communities and shutting the door to all tourism. The result was disaster for an already impoverished economy. And then, in the early 1990's, a new generation of army officers, while shunning meaningful democratic change, wanted an end to the country's international isolation and allowed market-oriented economic reforms, hoping to attract tourism and foreign investment for the first time in decades. But this was a hesitant move. Some believed the market-oriented reforms were going too far, that the country was opening up too fast. In this context, Western sanctions and boycotts have strengthened the hand of those who oppose even these tentative measures, rather than acting as pressure for more basic political change. Myanmar is also a country emerging only cautiously from more than 30 years of self-imposed isolation, with a tough military machine and a society brutalized from generations of war. </span>__The cease-fires could still unravel, state structures__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (other than the armed forces) </span>__are nearly nonexistent and millions of poor people, long denied access to foreign aid, might soon face more dire condition__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">s. Only the army will do well with more international isolation. </span>__This is all not to say that Myanmar shouldn't be a democracy. Far__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">from it. </span>**__Only liberal democracy can bring long-term stability to a country as ethnically and culturally diverse as Myanmar__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The question is how to go from here to there, leave behind the rhetoric and look for practical measures based on a better understanding of the country's past. As the Security Council takes up Myanmar for the very first time, it would be good to be mindful of Burmese history.</span>
**Myanmar collapse causes India-China war and massive instability.**
**Straits Times ‘7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Janadas Devan, Senior Writer, “Wedged between a rock and a hard place”, 10-26, L/N)</span>
__Prevent Myanmar from breaking apart. This is not an unlikely possibility, given that it is a multi-ethnic country__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__with the Burmese constituting no more than 60 per cent of the population__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, perhaps less (nobody knows, for a census has not been conducted for decades</span>__). If the central authority__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however incompetent and dumb, </span>__were to collapse precipitously, the country could descend into civil war. China, India and Thailand will probably get drawn in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the ensuing maelstrom, for Myanmar's restive ethnic minorities live mostly along the country's borders with its neighbours. </span>__'The last thing we want is a Yugoslavia or an Iraqi situation at our doorstep,' said__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mr </span>__Yeo.__ __The last thing we want is China and India jostling for advantage__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in this theatre, one might add.</span>
**The impact is nuclear world war III.**
**Dyer ‘5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gwynne, Independent Journalist, St. John’s Telegram, “India and China: avoiding the past”, 4-17, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It wasn't the sort of statement that sets the blood racing: "We have more or less reached agreement with regard to the political parameters and the guiding principles for the settlement of the boundary dispute." But </span>__Indian__ __National Security Adviser__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> M.K. </span>__Narayanan's announcement__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on April 10 during Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao's four-day visit to India, </span>__is good news for those who hope that their children__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or grandchildren </span>**__will not die in the Third World War__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. More negotiations </span>__There will have to be further talks__ __before India and China actually start demarcating their long Himalayan frontier, where the existing uncertainties led to a brief border war between the two Asian giants in 1962__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. More things also need to happen </span>__if China and India are to avoid confrontation__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">as both countries take their place in the front rank of the great powers over the next generation - a free-trade area would help, and a mutual security pact wouldn't hurt either - but this is definitely a step in the right direction. And not a moment too soon. It has become urgent because the Bush administration is trying to lure India into an alliance with the United States that would implicitly define China as the enemy. When U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice visited New Delhi last month, she told Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that it is now America's policy to "help India become a major world power in the 21st century," and the State Department briefer emphasized that Washington "understands fully the implications, including the military implications of that statement." The biggest American bribe on the table is the recent announcement that India would be allowed to buy the next generation of advanced combat aircraft from the U.S., which would give it definitive air superiority over China (and Pakistan) in a single bound. Other inducements will be deployed in coming months, and the White House hopes that by the time U.S. President George W. Bush visits India later this year, the two countries can reach an understanding - it won't actually be called an alliance - on military co-operation in Asia. The neo-conservatives in the Bush administration have a high opinion of their own strategic abilities, and they imagine that they are replaying the Nixon-Kissinger strategy of 30 years ago. Then, America's great strategic adversary was the Soviet Union, and Nixon's rapprochement with China gave the Russians something else to worry about by completing their encirclement. Now, the neo- conservatives see China as the emerging strategic rival, and want to draw India into a military alliance against it. China may increase weapons Except that the U.S. strategy of encircling China is more likely to convince Beijing that it must build up its military power in order to protect itself. The right analogy for what is happening now is not Nixon's China policy of the early 1970s. It is the period before 1914, when the traditional great powers who were facing a future of relative decline, Britain and France, sought to contain the rapid growth of German industrial power by making an alliance with the other rising power, Russia. And that led to the First World War. Nobody was actually to blame for the First World War. Germany's rapid industrial growth after unification in 1870 triggered the old balance-of-power reflex in the existing top dogs, Britain and France, who got together to "contain" it. That persuaded the Germans that they were encircled - as indeed they were, once Russia, the other rising industrial power, had been drawn into an alliance with the western great powers. No analogy is perfect, but this one feels pretty convincing. America is playing the role of Britain and France, China is being cast in the role of Germany, and India gets to play Russia. We have seen this movie before, and it did not even end well last time, when we were only playing with machine-guns and trenches. This time around, we are playing with nuclear weapons. If China were hell- bent on conquering the planet, other countries might have to accept the risk that a "containment" policy entails, but it isn't. Even under the current communist regime, China has not been expansionist. The various border quarrels that led to brief outbreaks of shooting 30 or 40 years ago with the Soviet Union, India and Vietnam were driven by genuine boundary disputes and prickly Chinese nationalism, but the territories at issue were not large or important. China's forces never pushed past the specific territories they claimed, and in most cases they were withdrawn again after making their point. China's occupation of Tibet and its claim to Taiwan are both contentious issues, but they are seen in Beijing essentially as domestic issues having to do with the country's historic territorial integrity. They do not constitute proof of a more general Chinese expansionism - which would be, in any case, pretty pointless in the current era of the global economy. Behind the times The master strategists in Washington are trapped in an old paradigm that no longer served the true interests of the great powers even 100 years ago, and certainly will not make America or anybody else safer now. If India falls for their blandishments, they will drive China into a needless military confrontation with its neighbours and destroy the fragile hope of reconciliation between India and Pakistan. The good news out of New Delhi last week is that the Indian government seems not to be falling for the neo-conservative strategy. There is a lot of work still to be done on Sino-Indian relations, but at least the trend is away from confrontation, not towards it</span>

**Accelerating u.s. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.**
**Espiritu, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – commander, u.s. navy (3/15/06, commander emilson m. Espiritu, “the eagle heads home: rethinking national security policy for the asia-pacific region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/gettrdoc?ad=ada448817&location=u2&doc=gettrdoc.pdf]], jmp)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can the u.s. live with the risk of an unstable korean peninsula? The obvious answer is “no.” It is clear that a stable korean peninsula is more beneficial to the united states. Clearly north korea is a major player to determining whether the korean peninsula remains stable. One would argue </span>__as long as the current regime of kim jung il remains in power and continue to pursue wmd__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (i.e. nuclear weapons) </span>__there will be a **permanent unstable scenario** in the region.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">62 on the other hand, </span>__as long as the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">u</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">s</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__remains in the region and continues to be forward deployed in south korea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, that </span>__the u.s. is contributing to such instability in the region.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> According to revere, if there is an unstable region (korean peninsula), the u.s. goals become harder to achieve.63 </span>__should an unstable korean peninsula exist, this could possibly lead to conflicts in the region, most obvious between the koreas__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; promote unhealthy economic competition in the region, whereas more developed nations (japan, china) do not provide any form of economic assistance to the koreas; </span>__and more dangerously a weapons/arms race (maybe to include more nuclear weapons in the region) to maintain a power balance.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In order to strengthen regional stability, the u.s. would need to succeed in countering terrorism, enhancing economic prosperity, eliminating weapons of mass destruction, promoting democracy, and addressing transnational issues.64 at what cost and risks is the u.s. willing to accept in order to achieve stability in the region? Conclusion The united states cannot live with the risks involved in an unstable region. The korean peninsula and the east-asia pacific region are home to many of the economic giants worldwide. Additionally, </span>__with the rising cost of economic commitments in afghanistan and iraq, the u.s. must rethink alternatives to bring stability in__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the east-asia pacific region more specifically, </span>__the korean peninsula. The u.s. must continue to pursue peace and stability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> using all elements of national power certainly </span>__using **less emphasis on a military solution**.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Additionally, </span>__the u.s. must selectively engage the koreas to bring stability to the korean peninsula by pursuing a combined strategy of isolationism and off-shore balancing.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Diplomatic, informational, and economic solutions take time. </span>__Perhaps by using other countries particularly in the region would be beneficial to the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">u</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">s</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__but also to the other countries as well.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Strategic positioning of u.s. troops not only around the korean peninsula but throughout the world is the key to pursuing the national objectives. </span>__By pursuing a stable korean peninsula without heavy u.s. involvement is beneficial both internationally and economically.__ __Accelerating the withdrawal of u.s. troops, could lead to a multi-polar balance of power in the region.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">65 obviously, this would require a significant change in foreign policy and power position in the region; </span>__it would certainly cause other nations to reconsider their national security strategy.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">All in all, in a speech given by james a. Kelley, stated that “regional stability remains our overarching strategic goal and provides the underpinnings for achievement of other key goals and objectives.”66 finally, as stated in the 2006 qdr, “victory can only be achieved through the patient accumulation of quiet successes and the orchestration of all elements of national and international power.” 67 </span>__perhaps by completely withdrawing all u.s. troops from south korea could potentially lead to one of these successes and bring stabilization to the region without heavy u.s. involvement. It is possible by taking the “let them work it out” (the koreas) approach would certainly be advantageous to the u.s.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the time is now for the eagle to head home. </span>

**Regionalism key to solve East Asian territorial disputes and all of our disad impacts**
**Nanto, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Specialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services (1/4, “East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdf)</span>
__A stronger **regional security organization** in East Asia could play a role in quelling terrorism__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by violent extremists. Since terrorism is a transnational problem, </span>__the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__relies on international cooperation to counter it. Without close multilateral cooperation, there are simply too many nooks and crannies for violent extremists to exploit.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">101 Currently, most of that cooperation is bilateral or between the United States and its traditional allies. While the ASEAN Regional Forum and ASEAN + 3, for example, have addressed the issue of terrorism, neither has conducted joint counter-terrorism exercises as has the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. Neither organization as a group, moreover, has joined U.S. initiatives aimed at North Korean nuclear weapons (e.g., the Proliferation Security Initiative). Meanwhile, </span>__tensions continue across the Taiwan Strait, and disputes over territory and drilling rights have flared up between China and Japan and between Japan and South Korea.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (For the United States, </span>__there is a growing possibility of nationalist territorial conflicts between two or more U.S. allies.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">102) The North Korean nuclear issue remains unresolved; North Korea has conducted tests of ballistic missiles and a nuclear weapon; and the oppressive military rule in Burma/Myanmar continues. </span>__Added to these concerns are__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> several regional issues: </span>__diseases__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (such as avian flu, SARS, and AIDS), </span>__environmental degradation, disaster mitigation and prevention, high seas piracy, and weapons proliferation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Memories of the 1997-99 Asian financial crisis still haunt policy makers in Asian countries. These are some of the major U.S. interests and issues as the United States proceeds with its policy toward a regional architecture in East Asia. Since this policy is aimed at the long-term structure of East Asian nations, it can be separated, somewhat, from current pressing problems. A metric by which any architecture can be evaluated, however, is how well it contributes to a resolution of problems as they now exist or will exist in the future.</span>
**Territorial disputes cause World War three**
**Waldron, 97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of strategy and policy at the U.S. Naval War College and an associate of the Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard (March 1997, Arthur, Commentary, “How Not to Deal with China,” EBSCO)</span>
__MAKING THESE flash-points all the more volatile has been a dramatic increase in the quantity and quality of China's weapons acquisitions.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> An Asian arms race of sorts was already gathering steam in the post-cold-war era, driven by national rivalries and the understandable desire of newly rich nation-states to upgrade their capacities; but the Chinese build-up has intensified it. In part a payoff to the military for its role at Tiananmen Square in 1989, China's current build-up is part and parcel of the regime's major shift since that time away from domestic liberalization and international openness toward repression and irredentism. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today China buys weapons from European states and Israel, but most importantly from Russia. The latest multibillion-dollar deal includes two Sovremenny-class destroyers equipped with the much-feared SS-N-22 cruise missile, capable of defeating the Aegis anti-missile defenses of the U.S. Navy and thus sinking American aircraft carriers. This is in addition to the Su-27 fighter aircraft, quiet Kilo-class submarines, and other force-projection and deterrent technologies. In turn, the Asian states are buying or developing their own advanced aircraft, missiles, and submarines--and considering nuclear options. </span>__The sort of unintended escalation which started two world wars could arise from any of the conflicts around China's periphery. It nearly did so__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in March 1996, when China, in a blatant act of intimidation, fired ballistic missiles </span>__in the Taiwan Straits. It could arise from a Chinese-Vietnamese confrontation__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, particularly if the Vietnamese should score some unexpected military successes against the Chinese, as they did in 1979, and if the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), of which they are now a member, should tip in the direction of Hanoi. </span>__It could flare up from the smoldering insurgencies among Tibetans__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Muslims, or Mongolians living inside China. </span>__Chains of alliance or interest, perhaps not clearly understood until the moment of crisis itself**, could easily draw in neighboring states--**Russia, or India, or Japan--or the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span>


**<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">THUS THE PLAN: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its ground troops in the Republic of Korea.</span>**


===Contention Three: Solvency=== 
**US withdrawal forces China to stop North Korean proliferation—this solves allied prolif**
**BANDOW 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, he is the author of Tripwire: Korea and U.S. Foreign Policy in a Changed World and co-author of The Korean Conundrum: America's Troubled Relations with North and South Korea, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” Huffington Post, May 21, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html]])</span>
What value, then, is the alliance? Some __proponents view it as a useful tool of nonproliferation, discouraging South Korea from developing a nuclear weapon. However, that possibility remains remote.__ Although nuclear negotiations with the North hardly look promising, __China might yet forcefully weigh in to halt the North Korean program.__ Moreover__, the U.S. could maintain a nuclear umbrella over the ROK without keeping conventional forces on the ground in South Korea, which only act as nuclear hostages vulnerable to DPRK intimidation__. Moreover__, the most powerful incentive for Beijing to apply significant pressure on the North to denuclearize (__and not just return to the Six-Party talks__) is the threat of further proliferation. The People's Republic of China does not fear a North Korean atomic bomb. The PRC might not worry unduly about a South Korean weapon.__ __But Japan and even Taiwan might consider joining a growing nuclear parade. That possibility should raise more than eyebrows in Beijing, encouraging a vigorous response to halt the process at the start. The best way to keep the ROK and neighboring states non-nuclear is to make the North non-nuclear. The best way to make North Korea non-nuclear is for the PRC to use its full array of diplomatic and economic tools on Pyongyang__



**Only a commitment to withdrawal troops will motivate south korea and china to stabilize and denuclearize the peninsula – this avoids accidental conflict with china, preserves larger u.s. deterrence and stops friction with japan**
**Garfinkle, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – taught american foreign policy and middle east politics at the university of pennsylvania and is editor of the national interest (1/27/03, adam, national review, “checking kim,” [[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]], jmp)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">No normal diplomacy</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The u.s. finds itself in an unenviable situation: one in which it has no military options, yet normal diplomacy is futile. Diplomacy of the sort being pressed upon the u.s. by south korea amounts to paying north koreans for acting temporarily less scary until the next occasion for extortion. I have argued that the only way to solve the problem is to transcend it: to think not like a diplomat, who is paid to manage, but like a statesman, who is paid to transform basic circumstances. I proposed last october that the major powers — the u.s., japan, russia, and china — unite to condition aid to north korea in such a way as ultimately to undermine north korean sovereignty. This proposal stood at least a chance of getting at the real source of the problem, which is the nature of the north korean regime; and it could provide benefits to all the major powers that they could not otherwise achieve for themselves. I also acknowledged its drawbacks: that north korea would not easily allow itself to be managed into oblivion and might lash out (which might happen anyway); and that the degree of cooperation we required, especially from china, might not be forthcoming. China has in fact proved recalcitrant, but not irremediably so. Indeed, </span>__the chinese__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> seem to appreciate the gravity of the present situation, and </span>__may still be prepared to cooperate with the u.s. if we persist in our efforts.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> The reason is that the chinese may ultimately put their own national interest above habit. The key chinese interest is that korea not be nuclearized, because that presupposes a nuclear japan. China also prefers, however, for perfectly understandable realpolitik reasons, that korea not be unified. China has been a free rider on u.s. policy and power for years to achieve both of these interests, and has never been forced to choose between the two. Now that choice is looming: china's reliance on u.s. policy to prevent the nuclearization of the korean peninsula is proving ill-founded. Meanwhile, as a result of north korean proliferation, the u.s. has an interest in bringing about a unified non-nuclear korea in which some redefined u.s. military presence underwrites the peninsula's non-nuclear status. If forced to choose between a) a nuclear north korea and b) a unified korea under seoul's aegis whose non-nuclear status is underwritten by the u.s., china would be slightly crazy not to choose the latter. But it will not so choose until the choice becomes inevitable. A secondary chinese interest, often cited, is beijing's fear of chaos on its border. But unless one assumes that north korea can be reformed successfully, a proposition for which there is no evidence, waiting will only make things worse from the chinese perspective. The more time the north korean regime has both to fail and to build nuclear weapons, the more likely its eventual collapse will be maximally calamitous. China's policy today amounts to propping up an influence-resistant and disaster-prone regime — seething with refugees ready to pour across the chinese border by the hundreds of thousands. Concert with the u.s., japan, and russia, on the other hand, would give china far more influence over what may happen in north korea , and help to manage it. If the chinese leadership sees its choices for what they really are, why would it choose a course of minimal influence and maximum ultimate peril? Sending out for chinese And so we come to thoughts the administration may or may not have allowed itself to think, about how the u.s. can achieve the cooperation it needs to solve the north korean problem. In other words, how can we bring other powers, particularly china, to the point of serious decisions that will lead them to join with the united states? Charles krauthammer recently suggested using the "japan card" for this purpose — in other words, telling the chinese that their failure to help us isolate north korea would make the u.s. receptive to japanese nuclear-weapons development. The u.s. need not say a word to beijing about this, however; the chinese understand the stakes better than we do. Besides, we have a far more dramatic option — the explanation of which requires a brief preface. </span>__It made sense for the u.s. to risk war on the korean peninsula between__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 19</span>__53 and the end of the cold war__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, for korea was bound up in a larger struggle. We could not opt out of any major theater in that struggle without the risk of losing all. But </span>__it no longer makes sense to run such risks.__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">What larger stakes since 1991 have justified the costs and dangers of keeping 37,000 u.s. troops in south korea, the overburdening of the u.s.-south korean relationship, and the tensions caused to the u.s.-japanese alliance? None that is readily apparent in the cold light of u.s. interests. </span>__The division of korea puts u.s. interests at risk more than it does those of any other major regional power__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (we have troops there; we — not china or russia or japan — face directly a nuclearizing adversary), and for the sake of the lowest stakes. </span>__Think about what the u.s. might suffer if war broke out in korea__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, and about what we would gain from its not breaking out. We would suffer thousands of dead gis, the probable ascription of responsibility for the razing of seoul (and maybe tokyo), and </span>__maybe **accidental conflict with china.** What do we gain from the status quo? **Perpetual diplomatic heartburn with japan** and others__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, and the privilege of fruitlessly negotiating with pyongyang. In short, the end of the cold war dramatically changed the balance of risks and rewards in u.s. korea policy, and should have led us to adjust our stance. But u.s. policymakers conducted business as usual, only responding to north korean threats and never themselves taking the lead to solve the underlying problem. </span>__We should have managed the transition to south korea's responsibility for its own security__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, while at the same time joining with other regional powers to limit north korea's trouble-making potential. Had we started early enough, before north korea had nukes, we would have had far more robust military options to enforce a muscular diplomacy than we do today. Better late than never, however; we still need to rethink the korea problem down to its roots. When we do, we immediately see our other option: </span>**__announce our intention to withdraw all u.s. military forces from korea. Lots of south koreans would be delighted. More important, such an announcement would force china and the other parties to the problem to face reality.__** __South koreans, having to defend themselves, will either see the illusions of their own policy or suffer the consequences of maintaining it.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> But it's their country, and, frankly, their potential misfortune no longer matters to us as much as it did during the cold war. </span>__If north korea becomes a six-or-more-weapon nuclear power, we will be far away, **with deterrence reasonably intact,** and with a decent if imperfect ability to prevent north korea from exporting fissile materials and missiles.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> China, however, cannot relocate. </span>__If we profess an intention to leave, beijing will then have to choose between a nuclear north korea and japan__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (and maybe south korea, too) </span>__on its doorstep, or joining with the u.s. and others to manage the containment, and ultimately the withering away, of the north korean state. **Until it is faced with such a choice, beijing will temporize and try to fob off the problem on washington, hoping as before to free-ride on us** for an outcome that benefits china more than it benefits the u.s. that's reality, and the chinese need to face it. We can help them do so.__

**Phased withdrawal solves**
**Carpenter, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, CATO Handbook for Congress, 7th Edition, “54. East Asian Security Commitments,” [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb111/hb111-54.pdf]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea The U.S. alliance with the Republic of Korea (South Korea) is a cold war anachronism. </span>__Washington should have weaned Seoul from the U.S. security bottle years ago.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When the security treaty went into effect in 1954, South Korea was a war-ravaged hulk that confronted not only a heavily armed North Korea, but a North Korea strongly backed by both Moscow and Beijing. Under those circumstances, it would have been virtually impossible for South Korea to provide for its own defense. Washington had just waged a bloody war to prevent a communist conquest of the country, and given the cold war context, U.S. leaders regarded the Korean Peninsula as a crucial theater in the effort to contain the power of the Soviet Union and China. Therefore, they deemed it necessary to keep the ROK as a security client. Most South Koreans were extremely grateful for the U.S. protection. Those circumstances bear no resemblance to the situation in the 21st century. </span>__Today, South Korea has twice the population and an economy 40 times larger than that of its communist nemesis.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The ROK is an economic powerhouse with the world’s 13th-largest economy, and South Korean firms are competitive in a host of high-tech industries. Meanwhile, North Korea is one of the world’s economic basket cases, and there have even been major episodes of famine in that pathetic country. Moscow and Beijing have major economic ties with the ROK and regard North Korea as an embarrassment. They have no interest whatever in backing another bid by Pyongyang to forcibly reunify the peninsula. Under those conditions, South Korea should certainly be able to defend itself. Yet instead of building military forces sufficient to protect its security, Seoul remains heavily dependent on the United States for key aspects of its defense. Despite its proximity to North Korea, the ROK spends a paltry 2.77 percent of its gross domestic product on the military—less than does the United States, half a world away and located in a peaceful region. There is simply no justification for continuing that free ride. Equally unpleasant is the growing lack of gratitude on the part of many South Koreans for the exertions the United States has made over the decades on behalf of their security. </span>__Public opinion polls show that younger South Koreans regard the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__as a more serious threat than North Korea.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Indeed, </span>__many South Koreans now believe that Washington is the **principal obstacle to better relations with North Korea** and to eventual political reunification.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The current government of President Lee Myungbak may be less overtly anti-American than that of his predecessor, but that sentiment has scarcely diminished among the general population. The ongoing North Korean nuclear crisis illustrates the drawbacks associated with Washington’s insistence on micromanaging the security affairs of East Asia. </span>__In a normal international system, the East Asian frontline states would be taking the lead in formulating policies to deal with North Korea instead of expecting the__ __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates to negotiate directly with Pyongyang and produce an agreement acceptable to them all. They would decide what risks they were willing to incur to compel Pyongyang to abandon its nuclear program—or in the alternative, whether they were prepared to live with a nuclear-armed North Korea. That is not to say that the United States has no interests at stake regarding North Korea’s nuclear ambitions. Washington understandably wants to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons—in East Asia and elsewhere. There is also legitimate concern that North Korea might eventually become a nuclear arms peddler, supplying bombs to other anti-American regimes— and perhaps even to terrorist organizations. Pyongyang’s apparent assistance to Syria regarding nuclear technology highlighted the proliferation problem. Nevertheless, the danger a nuclear-armed North Korea could pose to the United States is more remote and theoretical than the danger to North Korea’s neighbors. Their risk exposure is inherent—imposed by the realities of geography. Even if North Korea acquired only a few nuclear warheads and only modestly increased the range of its current delivery systems, it would pose a plausible threat to the security of South Korea, Japan, China, and Russia. Conversely, </span>__America’s risk exposure is largely discretionary. The__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">principal</span> __reason Washington is obsessed with the North Korean problem is the presence of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more than 27,000 </span>__U.S. troops__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in South Korea. </span>__Because of those forces, America has put itself__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, quite literally, </span>__on the **frontlines of a potentially explosive crisis.**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">That approach is precisely the opposite of the course Washington ought to adopt. </span>__The__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> new </span>__administration should__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> immediately begin to </span>__reduce America’s risk exposure by ordering a phased withdrawal of U.S. forces from South Korea.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Washington should also indicate to the </span>__East Asian powers__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that they </span>__bear primary responsibility for dealing with__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the problem of </span>__North Korea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’s nuclear program, since they have the most at stake. It is time, indeed it is long past time, to insist that South Korea manage its own security affairs. The United States has drawn down its military forces stationed in that country from approximately 37,000 to 27,000 over the past six years. Washington should implement a complete withdrawal within the next three years and terminate the misnamed mutual security treaty. That commitment was designed for an entirely different era. There is no need and very little benefit today for keeping South Korea as a security client.</span>
**Withdrawing __ground troops__ solves – stops North Korea from probing U.S. weakness to draw our forces into a wider conflict. Air and naval installations will maintain power projection capabilities.**
**Stanton, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – U.S. Army Judge Advocate in Korea from 98-02 and practicing attorney in Washington, D.C. (4/12/10, Joshua, The New Ledger, “It's Time for the U.S. Army to Leave Korea,” [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/04/11/opinion/main6386737.shtml]], JMP) Proceeding against the advice of my cardiologist, I must concede that for once, Ron Paul is actually on to something. </span>__The <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">ground component</span> of U.S. Forces Korea__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which costs U.S. taxpayers billions of dollars a year to maintain, </span>__is an__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> equally </span>__unaffordable political liability on the South Korean street. We should withdraw it.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Every Saturday night off-post brawl is a headline in the muck-raking Korean press, for which the American soldier is inevitably blamed, and for which angry mobs perpetually demand renegotiations of the Status of Force Agreement to give Korea’s not-even-remotely-fair judicial system more jurisdiction over American soldiers.</span> __The South Korean people do not appreciate__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the security </span>__our soldiers__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> provide. The way some of them treat our soldiers ought to be a national scandal. Many off-post businesses don’t even let Americans through their front doors. </span>**__The degree of anti-Americanism in South Korea is sufficient to be a significant force protection issue in the event of hostilities.__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea does not have our back. South Korea made much of the fact that it sent 3,000 soldiers to Iraq, where they sat behind concrete barriers in a secure Kurdish area of Iraq, protected by peshmerga, making no military contribution and taking no combat casualties. Their contribution to the effort in Afghanistan has been negligible, which is more than can be said of their contribution to the Taliban (previous President Roh Moo Hyun reportedly paid them a ransom of up to $20 million in 2007 to free South Korean hostages who took it upon themselves to charter a shiny new bus to bring Christianity to Kandahar). South Korea has been an equally unsteady ally against China. </span>__The American security blanket has fostered a state of national adolescence by the South Korean public.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Too many of them (some polls suggest most) see America as a barrier to reunification with their ethnic kindred in the North. Maybe nothing short of a North Korean attack on the South can encourage more sober thinking by South Koreans about their own security, but I suspect a greater sense of self-reliance and even vulnerability might. During my service in Korea, as U.S. taxpayers subsidized South Korea’s defense, South Korea subsidized Kim Jong Il’s potential offense with billions of dollars in hard currency that sustained the very threat against which we were ostensibly helping to defend. South Korea never made North Korea’s disarmament a condition of this aid. Instead, that aid effectively undermined U.S. and U.N. sanctions me ant to force North Korea to disarm. What does South Korea have to show for this colossal outlay now. </span>__Because South Korea, now__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> one the world’s wealthiest nations, </span>__expects__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> up to 600,000 </span>__American soldiers to__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> arrive </span>__protect it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from any security contingency, </span>__successive South Korean governments actually cut their nation’s defense rather than modernizing it and building an effective independent defense.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Conseque ntly, South Korea still has a 1970-vintage force structure, designed around a 1970-vintage threat, equipped with 1970-vintage weapons. This is partly the legacy of ten years of leftist administrations, but it’s also the legacy of military welfare that allowed South Korea to defer upgrading its equipment, building a professional volunteer army, and organizing an effective reserve force to deal with security contingencies. Worst of all,</span> __South Korea diverted billions of dollars that should have been spent on modernizing its military into regime-sustaining aid to Kim Jong Il__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, to be used, as far as anyone knows, for n ukes, missiles, artillery, and pretty much everything but infant formula. To this day, South Korea continues to resist accepting operational control over its own forces in the event of war. The U.S. Army presence in Korea is an anachronism, defending against the extinct threat of a conventional North Korean invasion. </span>__The far greater danger is that if Kim Jong Il assesses our current president as weak, he will choose more limited or less conventional means to strike at our soldiers and their families.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Given the reported presence of Taliban operatives in Seoul, he might even plausibly deny responsibility for an attack. Thus, while I don’t go so far as to accept the Princess Bride Doctrine (”never get involved in a land war in Asia”), </span>__I do not believe it is wise for us to have our forces within easy artillery range of Kim Jong Il, such that he may freely choose the time, place, and manner of our involvement__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I offer two qualifications here. First, </span>__this is not to suggest that we unilaterally abrogate the alliance with South Korea. **Our air and naval installations in Korea provide useful power-projection capability** and are far more secure__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ironically, than our many scattered and isolated Army posts. I can imagine any number of contingencies for which we’d want to have the ability to move people and supplies into South Korea in a hurry. Second, this is not to suggest that Ron Paul is not an anti-Semitic crypto-racist advocate of a thoughtlessly escapist foreign policy, and broadly speaking, an imbecile. This is just one occasion in which he inadvertently, in the fashion of a stopped clock, aligns with the correct result.</span>
==Afghanistan--Dowling== 
we've read this aff since dowling, just updating the losing the war evidence every tournament. the impacts are what's on here
=== === 
===Plan Text=== 
**Text: The United States federal government should reduce its military presence in Afghanistan to levels consistent with a counter terror strategy.**
===**Contention One: The War**=== 
We’re losing Afghanistan – six reasons 

**Peña 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Charles Peña, Senior Fellow at the Independent Institute, Senior Fellow with the Coalition for a Realistic Foreign Policy, former Senior Fellow with the George Washington University Homeland Security Policy Institute and Former Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, Adviser to the Straus Military Reform Project, Analyst for MSNBC television, holds an M.A. in Security Studies from George Washington University, 05-23-2010 (“Why We Can’t Win in Afghanistan,” Antiwar.com, May 23rd, Available Online at http://original.antiwar.com/pena/2010/05/23/why-we-cant-win-in-afghanistan/print/) </span>
__First__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and foremost, </span>__we don’t have enough troops.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Yes, yes, I know I’m a broken record to regular Antiwar.com readers.) The accepted standard for successful counterinsurgency operations is 20 soldiers per 1,000 civilians (recognized in the COIN – counterinsurgency – manual written in large part by Gen. David Petraeus, now head of U.S. Central Command). </span>__The population of Afghanistan is 32 million, which translates to a force requirement of 640,000 troops – more than the total number of U.S. Army active-duty soldiers.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The current combined NATO and U.S. force size is about 140,000 troops – only enough to occupy Kabul and perhaps two or three provinces (leaving 30 provinces unoccupied). </span>__Second, we do not have the political will__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (nor should we unless the very survival of our nation is at stake, which it isn’t in Afghanistan) </span>__to engage in the harsh__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – and often indiscriminate – </span>__tactics necessary to put down an insurgency.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The inconvenient truth about counterinsurgency is it usually means having to kill a lot of people, with inevitable collateral civilian casualties. The British, often thought of as the best in conducting counterinsurgency, had to use such methods to crush the Mau Mau rebellion in Kenya in the 1950s. Such tactics in Afghanistan would only increase resistance and fuel the insurgency – not to mention increasing anti-American sentiment throughout the Muslim world. </span>__Third, we don’t have the patience.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Successful counterinsurgency is a long and painful road to travel. </span>__The British spent__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> seven years in Kenya fighting the Mau Mau insurgents and </span>__more than 20 years in Malaysia battling the Malayan National Liberation Army.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The United States has been in Afghanistan eight years now. Particularly with the continued uncertainty about economic recovery, it’s unlikely that the American people will be willing to stay the course forever – more so if U.S. casualties climb (the number of U.S. dead hit the 1,000 mark when seven U.S. troops were killed – five in a massive Taliban suicide bombing in Kabul – earlier this week). And then there is the reality that the occupier must always leave, and </span>__there is no guarantee that whatever success may have been achieved during occupation will hold afterward. Fourth, we are conducting military operations in the name of a notoriously corrupt government that does not have widespread support among the people of Afghanistan.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> According to a Pentagon report released in April, “the population sympathizes with or supports the Afghan government in 24 percent (29 of 121) of all Key Terrain and Area of Interest districts.” That doesn’t necessarily mean the population supports the insurgents, but it does mean we are backing an unpopular horse. We tried that in Vietnam with the Diem regime, and it didn’t work out so well. It also means that the population is more susceptible to being won over by the insurgents since they have no natural affinity for the standing government. </span>__Fifth__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – in another case of déjà vu all over again vis-à-vis Vietnam – </span>__the insurgents have sanctuary in Pakistan.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> We weren’t able to deny the NVA sanctuary in Cambodia and Laos during the Vietnam War, and our options to do the same to al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Pakistan are less than attractive. </span>__Probably the only way to have high confidence of denying sanctuary in Pakistan is to invade and end up owning yet another Muslim country.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Needless to say, </span>__we don’t have the military forces necessary for such an invasion.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> More importantly, occupying another Muslim country would be confirmation that we are engaged in a war against Islam – not likely to help win the hearts and minds of the nearly 1 billion Muslims in the world, including American Muslims. We could carpet-bomb western Pakistan in an effort to destroy sanctuary areas and break the will of the people providing sanctuary – but that probably would not be viewed kindly by the Pakistani government and would ultimately result in killing innocent Muslims. The least bad of the not very good options is to let the Pakistani government deal with the situation, which means not deal with it very well if at all. However, as long as the al-Qaeda and Taliban threat emanating from Pakistan is local and not global, i.e., a direct threat to America, a less than satisfactory situation is what we may have to learn to live with. </span>__Finally,__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> there is this: Click on image to enlarge This is an actual PowerPoint slide shown by Gen. Stanley McChrystal, commander of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan, last summer to portray </span>__the complexity of U.S. strategy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. What it really </span>__demonstrates__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – beyond “PowerPoint makes us stupid,” according to Gen. James N. Mattis of the Marine Corps – is the </span>__impossibility__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of U.S. strategy. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are too many moving pieces with multiple inter-relationships to be able to control them all. And – like a kaleidoscope – a small change to one thing changes everything else unpredictably and a completely new pattern emerges. </span>

**Population protection fails**
**Nelson 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, </span><span class="4Qualifications"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, 10/1/09) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">2. Widespread corruption in the August 20 election has widened the trust gap between the Karzai government and the Afghan people. Because successful counterinsurgency requires a government that is credible and responsive to its citizens, these developments threaten to derail the U.S. and NATO mission. And as our experience in South Vietnam made painfully clear, the White House is usually powerless to force any host nation to enact good-government reforms. 3. General McChrystal’s strategic review emphasizes</span> __“population protection”__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as the key to drying up support for the Taliban. The claim </span>__is based on the assumption that insurgencies require the backing__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, or at least acquiescence, </span>__of surrounding communities__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in order to function. </span>__But__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a recent article in the Washington Post noted that </span>__the Taliban rely primarily on foreign__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, rather than local, </span>__funding sources__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, a fact that suggests that population protection may ultimately do little to diminish the insurgency’s strength. 4. Public support for a counterinsurgency campaign of such massive proportions simply does not exist. Recent polls suggest that over 50 percent of Americans are against sending more troops to Afghanistan. And our European allies are even less enthusiastic about escalating the war. 5. Finally, the COIN framework is built on the larger assumption that eliminating the Taliban and stabilizing Afghanistan is the best use of American resources in the broader effort to combat terrorism. Al Qaeda’s presence in a pre-9/11, Taliban-controlled Afghanistan has convinced many officials that a Taliban takeover would result in al Qaeda’s inevitable return to the state. But al Qaeda already has established itself in Pakistan’s semi-governed spaces. Along with Taliban and other extremist militants, the group enjoys the relative safety of these territories, where Pakistani sovereignty precludes any substantive U.S. ground force. Even if al Qaeda were to reenter Afghanistan sometime in the future, the United States would face the same basic terrorist threats that it does today. Critics will argue that Afghanistan served as a base and planning center for 9/11. True enough; </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">but al Qaeda, in establishing a presence in Pakistan, Somalia, and Yemen has already developed numerous “safe havens.” In short, our overwhelming focus on Afghanistan fails to serve a more nuanced counterterrorism strategy that acknowledges the many other areas in which al Qaeda operates</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

**Statistical models prove – large footprint strategies inevitably fail**
**<span style="color: black;">Greig and Enterline 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – (associate professors of political science at the University of North Texas and research associates at the Castleberry Peace Institute (J. Michael and Andrew, “No Good Choices,” 11/11, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/11/11/no_good_choices) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">We used forecasts from statistical models to determine how the two strategies under Obama's consideration might play out: the chances that insurgency will abate and democracy will strengthen, as well as the impact on the stability of Afghanistan's democratic government and its neighbors, like Pakistan. Unfortunately, we found that </span>__regardless of what the U__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>__does, the chance of violent insurgency remains__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> woefully </span>__high__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> -- and that </span>__a larger force deployment might actually endanger the weak Afghan state.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> To perform this analysis, we studied similar efforts by foreign powers to establish democracy during the 20th century -- the Allied forces in Germany and Japan after World War II, for instance, and Sudan after the British colonial occupation. We studied the correlation between the occurrence of insurgency in foreign-created democracies and factors such as the level of economic development, social divisions, number of neighboring democratic states, and historical episodes of political violence. In turn, we studied how these characteristics and the insurgencies they spur influence the durability of democracy. We input data on historical conflicts and current conditions in Afghanistan to generate forecasts for each of the force deployment strategies under Obama's consideration. We studied the prospects for Afghanistan on a two-year time frame under several scenarios: a same-sized U.S. force, an increased U.S. force, and an increased Afghan force, for instance. In all of our models, </span>__regardless of the number of soldiers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> deployed, the probability of insurgency in the years after the force deployment -- and, thus, continued violence and instability in Afghanistan -- remains so high as to seem certain. The current cadre fighting al Qaeda and the Taliban includes 68,000 U.S. troops, 40,000 NATO troops, and 94,000 soldiers from the Afghan National Army (ANA). If that same force stays in place, </span>__there is a 93.6 percent probability of insurgency__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> over the next year. Regardless of how many additional troops arrive -- or who sends them -- the chance of insurgency in 2010 and 2011 remains more than 90 percent. If the ANA achieves its force target of 134,000 troops, for instance, the probability of insurgency reduces negligibly. Deploying 15,000 more U.S. troops reduces the risk a scant 0.1 percent in 2010. </span>__Deploying 60,000 more__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> -- the largest additional U.S. force suggested -- </span>__reduces the risk just 0.1 percent__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">further than that. What explains the inability of any additional deployment to reduce the likelihood of insurgency in Afghanistan? Our analysis suggests that the U.S. counterinsurgency swims against two very strong currents. First, the combustible mix of Afghanistan's relatively immutable social and political characteristics -- its ethnic and religious divisions, low level of economic development, and large population -- almost guarantees continued insurgency. The country's poverty and large population encourage competition for scarce resources, and that competition gins up violence. Democracy itself seems to further destabilize the country: Our analysis shows that when foreign countries institute democracy in countries with deep ethnic and religious divisions (and Afghanistan is a tribal-based society), insurgency results. A second factor suggesting that additional U.S. troops won't do much to quell political violence is the length of the war in Afghanistan. Insurgency develops momentum and is more difficult to eliminate the longer it persists. A force that might nip a fledgling insurgency in the bud is unlikely to do so once it is embedded -- and the rebels in Afghanistan have been around for nearly a decade.</span>


**Obama’s recent decision to go back on the withdrawal deadline turns Afghanistan into a second Vietnam**
**Volkhonsky 11/13** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– (Boris, “How long are Americans going to stay in Afghanistan?” Global Research, 11/13/10, [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21895]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The mid-term elections in the US don’t seem to have taught the present Administration anything. For any unbiased observer, it is obvious that the Democratic defeat at the elections and the failure of what was generally perceived as a referendum on Barack Obama were basically due to the fact that President Obama had not kept up to his promises given during the 2008 presidential campaign. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One of the highest expectations at that time was that Obama would keep his word and withdraw the US troops from Iraq by August 2010. This year, with the deadline was approaching, Obama made his best to persuade that he was faithful to his promise. But not too many people in the US and in the outside world believed that a simple relabeling of troops into ‘non combat units’ amounted to the promised troops withdrawal. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Another promise made by Obama during the 2008 campaign was to begin withdrawing troops from Afghanistan by summer 2011. Until now personally Barack Obama did not seem to falter on the issue. But this week a high-level diplomatic and security conference was held in Australia with the participation of at least three top US officials in charge of foreign and military policies, namely State Secretary Hillary Clinton, Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The three did not really coordinate their speeches, but in all three of them the clearly read implication was such that </span>__the US troops will stay in Afghanistan for at least three more years beyond the previously set deadline.__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The officials in the administration have tried to play down the significance of the statements, saying that they really did not signify any major difference in the administration stance on the issue. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“The old message was, we’re looking to July 2011 to begin a transition,” an unnamed White House official said. “Now we’re telling people what happens beyond 2011, and I don’t think that represents a shift.” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But in fact, it does. And not only one shift, but rather a combination of them. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, it demonstrates how easily the politicians can forget the promises they made while seeking office, once they are fully established in that office. The promise Obama gave in 2008 was not only addressed to Americans, but to the whole world community, and to the Afghan authorities in particular. The latter have already continuously demonstrated their irritation over the behavior of US-led NATO coalition in Afghanistan. The inability (or, unwillingness) of the Administration to live up to its own pledges will only add to the irritation and a further loss of mutual trust. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>__the decision to prolong the military presence in Afghanistan demonstrates that the US is by now so deeply involved in the whole campaign that it requires little to turn it into a second Vietnam__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The consequences of the 1960-ies gamble were very serious, and the whole of American society had to live trough decades before it got rid of the ‘Vietnam syndrome’. Is the Obama administration really willing to create a new ‘Afghan syndrome’ remains to be seen. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, and probably most serious. </span>__The whole Afghan gamble from the very beginning demonstrated that the US is not eager to learn from others’ mistakes. Throughout its history, Afghanistan has clearly demonstrated that no outside power is capable of dictating its will on the Afghan people.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The British were the first to learn the lesson and then followed the Soviets. Basically, </span>__nothing has changed in Afghanistan, and the military and political failures the US is facing in Afghanistan, only confirm the thesis__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Why the administration is so eager to endure the failed policies for another three or four year, is a question that remains unanswered. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To tell the truth, the Americans are not alone in their illusion that the Western military invasion has brought peace to Afghanistan, and that it serves for the benefit of Afghan people. The British, who should know better from their own experience, seem to have fallen in the same line. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As far back as June this year (that is, shortly after coming to power) Defence Secretary Nick Harvey stated that British troops would remain in Afghanistan ‘until the job is done’, implying that they may even stay there after the general elections in the UK scheduled for 2015. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Even leaving apart the issue of human losses that are inevitable and set to grow as long as the foreign troops are present in Afghanistan, the cabinet minister is expected to realize that the prolongation of the troops’ presence in such volatile region as Afghanistan is disastrous for his party’ political prospects. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">And if the politicians – whether American or British – DO realize the fact, than the only plausible explanation is that they have by now given up on the prospects of their reelection for the next term </span>

**Cross-border sanctuaries, government corruption, and ethnic tensions within the ANA make failure inevitable**
**Dorronsoro 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” In These Times, 5/24, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863 </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan is at an impasse. The renewed efforts undertaken since the summer of 2009 have failed to temper the guerrilla war. A few tactical successes are possible, but this war cannot be won. </span>__The coalition cannot defeat the Taliban as long as Pakistan continues to offer__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> them </span>__sanctuary__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. And increasing resources to wage the war is not an option. The costs of continuing the war--to use Ambassador Karl Eikenberry's expression in the leaked telegram to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton--are "astronomical." </span>__The__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> entire </span>__U.S. strategy revolves around a swift Afghanization__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">of the conflict, </span>__yet the coalition's Afghan partner is weaker than it was a year ago__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The state's presence in the provinces has declined sharply and the legitimacy of President Hamid Karzai's government is contested. As a result of the massive fraud in the August 2009 presidential elections, the government has no popular legitimacy, and the legislative elections slated for fall 2010 will probably undermine the political system even further because fraud is inevitable. It is unlikely that the Afghan regime will ever be able to assume responsibility for its own security. As a result, the coalition faces an endless war accompanied by an intolerable loss of life and treasure. A less costly alternative would be to negotiate a broad agreement with the Taliban leadership to form a national unity government, with guarantees against al Qaeda's return to Afghanistan. But even if such negotiations might occur, they hold no guarantee of success. Yet the cost of their failure is negligible compared with the potential gain: a relatively swift way out of the crisis that preserves the coalition's essential interests. Time is not on the coalition's side. The United States should contact Taliban leaders as soon as possible rather than waiting for the situation to deteriorate further. In pursuit of a losing strategy The Taliban cannot be defeated militarily because the border with Pakistan is and will remain open for the insurgents. </span>__The Pakistani army__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which refuses to launch an offensive against the Afghan Taliban, </span>__has never considered taking action against the Taliban leadership based in Pakistan__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The February arrest of acting Taliban military commander Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar is probably a sign that the Pakistani military wants more control over the insurgency to prepare for the negotiation process. What's more, the insurgency is now nationwide and cannot be contained by counterinsurgency (COIN) operations in two or three southern provinces. The COIN strategy cannot succeed because of the immense resources it requires. In a marginal, strategically unimportant district such as Marjah, the coalition would have to keep thousands of troops for years to prevent the Taliban's return. To replicate such strategy, even in one province, would overstretch the U.S. military. In addition to COIN, military strategists think they can quickly weaken the Taliban through the creation of militias, the co-opting of Taliban groups and targeted assassinations. These policies will not strengthen the Afghan government's legitimacy or influence; to the contrary, they are destroying the Karzai government's credibility. The effects of this strategy are irreversible, and with the acceleration of political fragmentation, the coalition is faced with the prospect of a collapse of Afghan institutions. The Karzai government is unlikely to engage in institutional reform, given that it is increasingly dependent on the networks that ensured its fraudulent re-election. Consequently, the coalition is having more and more trouble influencing Karzai. The weakness of the central political institutions means that the development of the army and the police force--the coalition's priorities--is occurring in a vacuum. Transferring security responsibilities to our Afghan partner will probably not be possible in the foreseeable future. Afghans perceive their representative institutions as illegitimate. Between 10 percent and 15 percent of Afghan voters are believed to have supported Karzai during the 2009 presidential elections. All indications point to a high level of cynicism among the people and their rejection of the government; in fact, they massively refrained from voting even in places where security was reasonably good. The legislative elections scheduled for September 2010 will further erode faith in the political system. The lack of security makes it impossible to hold credible elections in at least half of Afghanistan. And in February 2010, Karzai seized control of the ECC (Electoral Complaints Commission); there is no longer an independent institution to validate the process. Aside from fraud and corruption, Karzai's lack of legitimacy is linked to his presumed lack of autonomy vis-à-vis the coalition. Internal U.S. Army </span>__studies__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and the experiences of numerous journalists and researchers </span>__indicate that a majority of the population in combat zones now considers the foreign forces as occupiers.__ __Military operations are polarizing the population against foreign forces__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and further weakening Karzai's regime, which appears irreparably unpopular and illegitimate. The coalition is perceived as the main provider of insecurity. Villagers do not want to see the establishment of coalition outposts that can bring only bombings and IEDs. Furthermore, the coalition is hurt by the dependence of Karzai on his local allies, who generally oppose the coalition's objectives. The coalition is also undermined when the Afghan government aggressively distances itself from the coalition when civilians are killed by "friendly fire." The failed Karzai government The government in Kabul is now too weak to reassert control over the periphery of the country. As a result, the coalition is increasingly dependent on local strongmen who it helped put in place or with whom it has worked. The weakening of the Afghan regime is very bad news for the coalition, which is promoting Afghanization in order to reduce its own investment. It is hard to build a military that is independent of the institutional network that constitutes the state. Problems such as </span>__ethnic tensions, local and national corruption__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and the lack of a clear purpose </span>__make it hard to motivate soldiers__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and officers. The coalition should recognize that an autonomous Afghan army is a very distant goal. The coalition's large offensive to "clear" Taliban territory will not work, because </span>__the Afghan army and the police are not ready.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> If the coalition tries to secure Taliban territory on a long-term basis, it will overstretch itself and casualties will increase significantly. Modest objectives would be more realistic. Most observers recognize the impossibility of a military solution. Nonetheless, different arguments have been put forward to reject negotiations. First, the coalition needs more time. Reinforcements are not yet fully in place, so talk of failure is premature. Second, experts such as Pakistani journalist Ahmed Rashid explain that the Taliban have reached the height of their influence, implying that the coalition would be in a stronger position in the future. One can counter that the coalition should begin negotiations now while it still has the means to exert military pressure. There is nothing to indicate that the Taliban are going to slow their advance. They are pursuing a strategy that includes expanding their influence in the cities. And nothing indicates that the Karzai regime won't be even weaker a year from now. From this perspective, the Afghan surge will have had the same result as all troop increases since 2003: a deterioration of security. Consequently, marginal military gains for the coalition in the next 18 months are the exact equivalent of a strategic defeat. Hence the need for a negotiated settlement. </span>

**Even winning the war just means decades of failure – the only option is to leave now**
**Engelhardt 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Tom Engelhardt, co-founder of the American Empire Project, head of the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com, author ("Tomgram: Engelhardt, The Petraeus Syndrome," TomDispatch.com, 7/11/10, www.tomdispatch.com/dialogs/print/?id=175272, accessed 9/14/10) [DHUANG]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What Success Would Mean in Afghanistan Okay, it hasn’t happened yet -- and the odds are it never will. But for a moment, just imagine stories like that leading the news nationwide as our most political general in generations comes home to a grateful Washington. By all accounts, </span>__the Afghan War could hardly be going worse today.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Counterinsurgency, the strategy promoted by General McChrystal but conceived by General Petraeus, is seemingly in a ditch, while the Taliban are the ones surging. Around that reality has arisen a chorus of criticism and complaint, left, right, and center. Failure breeds critics, you might say, the way dead bodies breed flies. Or put another way, it’s easy enough to criticize a failing American project, but what about a successful one? What if Petraeus really turns out to be the miracle general of twenty-first century American war-making -- which, by the way, only means that he needs to “blunt” the Taliban surge (the modern definition of “winning,” now that victory is no longer a part of the U.S. war-making lexicon)? Today, the increasingly self-evident failure of American policy in Afghanistan is bringing enough calls for firm drawdown or withdrawal dates (or, from the Republicans, bitter complaints about the same) to exasperate President Obama. Under the circumstances, </span>__no one__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> evidently </span>__wonders what success would really mean.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> We’ve been down so long, it seems, that few bother to consider what being up might involve. Too bad. It’s worth a thought. Let’s say that Petraeus does return to Washington in what, these days, passes for triumph. The question is: So what? Or rather, could success in Afghanistan prove worse for Americans than failure? </span>__Let’s imagine that, in July 2011, the U.S. military has tenuous control over key parts__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of that country, including Kandahar, its second largest city. It still has almost 100,000 troops (and at least a similar number of private contractors) in the country, </span>__while a slow drawdown__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of the 30,000 surge troops the president ordered into Afghanistan in December 2009 </span>__is underway__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Similarly, the “civilian” surge, which tripled the State Department’s personnel there, remains in place, as does the CIA surge that went with it -- and the contractor and base-building surges that went with them. In fact, </span>__the CIA drone war__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in the Pakistani borderlands </span>__will__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> undoubtedly </span>__have only escalated further__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> by July 2011. </span>__Experts expect the counterinsurgency__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> campaign </span>__to continue for__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> years, even </span>__decades more__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">; the NATO allies are heading for the exits; and, again according to the experts, </span>__the Taliban, being thoroughly interwoven with Afghanistan’s Pashtun minority, simply cannot__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in any normal sense </span>__be defeated. This__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, then, </span>__would be “success” 10 years into America’s Afghan war.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Given the logistics nightmare of supporting so many troops, intelligence agents, civilian officials, and private contractors in the country, the approximately $7 billion a month now being spent there will undoubtedly be the price Americans are to pay for a long time to come (and that’s surely a significant undercount, if you consider long-term wear-and-tear to the military as well as the price of future care for those badly wounded in body or mind). </span>


<span class="Underline">**Even US defense officials admit intensifying the campaign is failing** </span>
<span class="Underline">**McMurtrie 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - ABC News Washington correspondent ("Taliban absorbing the blows: report," ABC News, 10/28/10, www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/10/28/3050279.htm?section=justin, accessed 10/28/10 [DHUANG]) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">The Washington Post has quoted unnamed US intelligence and defence officials as saying the intensified military campaign in Afghanistan is not working.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> According to the newspaper </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">report, the latest US war assessments show the increased air strikes and special operations raids in Afghanistan have caused some disruption to Taliban movements but the insurgency is absorbing the blows. It says the two main insurgent factions are able to withstand the increasing pace of US attacks because of safe havens in Pakistan. It is a pessimistic assessment of the situation on the ground since the US added another 30,000 troops in Afghanistan. Senior defence analyst Anthony Cordesman says he is seeing little indication that the direction of the war has changed. He says </span>the insurgents still believe they can drive the US out of Afghanistan.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> "Judging the impact on the insurgency is something where you need to take at least a year unless for some reason it virtually cracks and falls apart," he said. The White House has ordered its own strategic review in December and US president Barack Obama has flagged his intention to begin a troop draw-down in July next year. But Professor Cordesman has questioned the timing and value of that review, saying </span>the new strategy is months behind schedule.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> "It was a deadline issued at a time when people were more optimistic about the development of Afghan forces," he said. "And there's no reason to be pessimistic. But it's taken longer in time, not simply to get the Afghan forces developed, but frankly so many countries have not provided the number of advisers they'd pledged that this has produced about a six-month delay in the schedule. "We need about six to eight more months to have any idea whether the new strategy can work." US officials </span>believe the two main factions of the insurgency - <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Taliban and the Haqqani network - are using safe havens in Pakistan. The CIA has increased the number of drone attacks, but Professor Cordesman says so far very few fighters are turning away from the insurgency. "This insurgency does believe at this point in time that it can drive the US and other members of the Coalition out of Afghanistan, and it can win," he said. "That doesn't make it a good negotiating partner. It certainly doesn't make it willing to concede, nor does it make it trustworthy." He says </span>despite US administration hints that high-level Taliban leaders are interested in peace talks, negotiations have barely begun.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> "These are extremely difficult negotiations, which if they're to have any lasting impact are going to take time," he said. "As yet the major part of this negotiation has not even begun." </span></span>

**Regardless of conditions on the ground, a major troop deployment will remain in Afghanistan**
**Pillar 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Paul R. Pillar, director of graduate studies at Georgetown University's Security Studies Program, former national intelligence officer for the Near East and South Asia, contributing editor to The National Interest ("What Conditions, Exactly?" The National Interest, 8/15/10, nationalinterest.org/print/blog/conditions-3872, accessed 9/16/10) [DHUANG] </span>
__Petraeus and the administration have laid the rhetorical groundwork for__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> deciding on </span>__a slow__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, maybe even </span>__token, withdrawal regardless of the conditions in Afghanistan__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> next July. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the war is going well, then the argument will be: the strategy is working, let's give the counterinsurgency the time we've always known it requires, and let's not sacrifice all that we've accomplished by pulling out too fast. If the war is going badly, then the argument will be: the Afghan security forces clearly are not yet up to the task, and the situation still requires a major role for U.S. forces. About the only imaginable scenario that could lead to a faster withdrawal is one that is so rosy—beyond even the most optimistic visions of counterinsurgency officers, with a precipitous decline in violence and much faster increase in the proficiency of Afghan security forces than they have displayed to date—that it is effectively impossible. So</span> __we have__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, with arguments for continuing the counterinsurgency, what social scientists would call</span> __an irrefutable proposition. Talk of testing the proposition against empirical data—in this case in the form of "conditions"—is effectively meaningless.__

**Unfortunately, large footprint strategies destabilize Pakistan and risk nuclear terrorism**
**Simon and Stevenson 9****<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> –</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> *adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND **Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009 http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409)** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Whatever US officials might concede privately, the White House, State Department and Pentagon have thus far not acknowledged publicly the possibility that greater American intrusiveness in Afghanistan might mean less Pakistani cooperation. That, however, appears to be the case. To be sure, Pakistan has pragmatically responded to US pressure to thwart the Taliban in its tribal areas. But it is more significant in the broader strategic context that </span>__Pakistan has objected to expanded US military operations in Afghanistan__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> on two grounds. </span>__First__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">ly, </span>__they__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> would </span>__cause a cross-border spillover of militants into Pakistan__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and increase the counter-insurgency burden on the Pakistani military. </span>__Second__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">ly, </span>__they__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> would</span> __foment political instability in Pakistan by intensifying popular perceptions of American military occupation__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of the region and the Pakistani government's complicity with the Americans in suppressing a group that was not even considered an enemy of Pakistan. Indeed, in a July 2009 briefing, Pakistani officials made it clear that, however concerned the United States was about the Taliban, they still regard India as their top strategic priority and the Taliban militants as little more than a containable nuisance and, in the long term, potential allies.<span style="color: black;">5</span> Pakistani officials made clear that they still regard India as their strategic priority In this light, the realistic American objective should not be to ensure Afghanistan's political integrity by neutralising the Taliban and containing Pakistani radicalism, which is probably unachievable. Rather, its aim should be merely to ensure that al-Qaeda is denied both Afghanistan and Pakistan as operating bases for transnational attacks on the United States and its allies and partners. Pitfalls of the current policy The Obama administration's instincts favouring robust counter-insurgency and state-building in Afghanistan reflect the 1990s-era US and European predilection for peacekeeping, reconstruction and stabilisation, and the multilateral use of force for humanitarian intervention, deployed to positive effect in the Balkans and withheld tragically in Rwanda. To the extent that this mindset was premised on an expansion of the rule of law to hitherto poorly and unjustly governed areas, such as Somalia and Bosnia, it reflects the broader conception of counter-terrorism adopted after 11 September. Insofar as it favours collective action by major powers with the unambiguous endorsement of the UN Security Council, it is also consistent with the Obama administration's rejection of Bush-era unilateralism. And an aggressive internationalist approach to spreading democracy and the rule of law, notwithstanding the shortsightedness and inefficacy of the Bush doctrine, is admirable and in some instances appropriate.<span style="color: black;">6</span> In this case, however, it is more likely to hurt than help. </span>__While a larger US military footprint might help stabilise Afghanistan in the short term, the effects of collateral damage__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and the aura of US domination it would generate </span>__would also intensify anti-Americanism in Pakistan.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This outcome, in turn, would frustrate both core American objectives by rendering it politically far more difficult for the Pakistani government to cooperate with Washington (and easier for the quasi-independent Inter-Services Intelligence to collude with the Taliban and al-Qaeda), thus making it harder for the United States to defeat al-Qaeda. It would also increase radicalisation in Pakistan, imperil the regime and raise proliferation risks, increasing rather than decreasing pressure on India to act in the breach of American ineffectuality. </span>**

Pakistan instability causes nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia 
Pitt 9 **<span style="font-size: 7pt;">– a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep filled with troops today, killing five and wounding as many as 21, including several children who were waiting for a ride to school. Residents of the region where the attack took place are fleeing in terror as gunfire rings out around them, and government forces have been unable to quell the violence. Two regional government officials were beheaded by militants in retaliation for the killing of other militants by government forces. As familiar as this sounds, it did not take place where we have come to expect such terrible events. This, unfortunately, is a whole new ballgame. It is part of another conflict that is brewing, one which puts what is happening in Iraq and Afghanistan in deep shade, and which represents a grave and growing threat to us all. </span>__Pakistan is now trembling on the edge of violent chaos__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and is doing so </span>__with nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in its hip pocket, right in the middle of one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the world. The situation in brief: Pakistan for years has been a nation in turmoil, run by a shaky government supported by a corrupted system, dominated by a blatantly criminal security service, and threatened by a large fundamentalist Islamic population with deep ties to the Taliban in Afghanistan. All this is piled atop an ongoing standoff with neighboring India that has been the center of political gravity in the region for more than half a century. The fact that</span> __Pakistan,__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and</span> __India__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and </span>__Russia, and China all possess nuclear weapons and share the same space means any ongoing or escalating violence over there has the real potential to crack open the very gates of Hell itself.__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Recently, the Taliban made a military push into the northwest Pakistani region around the Swat Valley. According to a recent Reuters report: The (Pakistani) army deployed troops in Swat in October 2007 and used artillery and gunship helicopters to reassert control. But insecurity mounted after a civilian government came to power last year and tried to reach a negotiated settlement. A peace accord fell apart in May 2008. After that, hundreds — including soldiers, militants and civilians — died in battles. Militants unleashed a reign of terror, killing and beheading politicians, singers, soldiers and opponents. They banned female education and destroyed nearly 200 girls' schools. About 1,200 people were killed since late 2007 and 250,000 to 500,000 fled, leaving the militants in virtual control. Pakistan offered on February 16 to introduce Islamic law in the Swat valley and neighboring areas in a bid to take the steam out of the insurgency. The militants announced an indefinite cease-fire after the army said it was halting operations in the region. President Asif Ali Zardari signed a regulation imposing sharia in the area last month. But the Taliban refused to give up their guns and pushed into Buner and another district adjacent to Swat, intent on spreading their rule. The United States, already embroiled in a war against Taliban forces in Afghanistan, must now face the possibility that </span>__Pakistan could collapse under the mounting threat of Taliban forces there__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Military and diplomatic advisers to President Obama, uncertain how best to proceed, now face one of the great nightmare scenarios of our time. "Recent militant gains in Pakistan," reported The New York Times on Monday, "have so alarmed the White House that the national security adviser, Gen. James L. Jones, described the situation as 'one of the very most serious problems we face.'" </span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">"</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Security was deteriorating rapidly," reported The Washington Post on Monday, "particularly in the mountains along the Afghan border that harbor al-Qaeda and the Taliban, intelligence chiefs reported, and there were signs that those groups were working with indigenous extremists in Pakistan's populous Punjabi heartland. The Pakistani government was mired in political bickering. The army, still fixated on its historical adversary India, remained ill-equipped and unwilling to throw its full weight into the counterinsurgency fight. But despite the threat the intelligence conveyed, Obama has only limited options for dealing with it. Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is high, and a U.S. combat presence is prohibited. The United States is fighting Pakistan-based extremists by proxy, through an army over which it has little control, in alliance with a government in which it has little confidence." It is believed Pakistan is currently in possession of between 60 and 100 nuclear weapons. Because Pakistan's stability is threatened by the wide swath of its population that shares ethnic, cultural and religious connections to the fundamentalist Islamic populace of Afghanistan, fears over what could happen to those nuclear weapons if the Pakistani government collapses are very real. "As the insurgency of the Taliban and Al Qaeda spreads in Pakistan," reported the Times last week, "</span>__senior American officials say they are increasingly concerned about new vulnerabilities for Pakistan's nuclear arsenal__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, including the potential for militants to snatch a weapon in transport or to insert sympathizers into laboratories or fuel-production facilities. In public, the administration has only hinted at those concerns, repeating the formulation that the Bush administration used: that it has faith in the Pakistani Army. But that cooperation, according to officials who would not speak for attribution because of the sensitivity surrounding the exchanges between Washington and Islamabad, has been sharply limited when the subject has turned to the vulnerabilities in the Pakistani nuclear infrastructure." "The prospect of turmoil in Pakistan sends shivers up the spines of those U.S. officials charged with keeping tabs on foreign nuclear weapons," reported Time Magazine last month. "Pakistan is thought to possess about 100 — the U.S. isn't sure of the total, and may not know where all of them are. Still, if Pakistan collapses, the U.S. military is primed to enter the country and secure as many of those weapons as it can, according to U.S. officials. Pakistani officials insist their personnel safeguards are stringent, but a sleeper cell could cause big trouble, U.S. officials say." In other words, a shaky Pakistan spells trouble for everyone, especially if America loses the footrace to secure those weapons in the event of the worst-case scenario. If Pakistani militants ever succeed in toppling the government, several very dangerous events could happen at once. Nuclear-armed India could be galvanized into military action of some kind, as could nuclear-armed China or nuclear-armed Russia. If the Pakistani government does fall, and all those Pakistani nukes are not immediately accounted for and secured, the specter (or reality) of</span> __loose nukes falling into the hands of terrorist organizations could place the entire world on a collision course with unimaginable disaster.__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">We have all been paying a great deal of attention to Iraq and Afghanistan, and rightly so. The developing situation in Pakistan, however, needs to be placed immediately on the front burner. The Obama administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.</span>**

Terrorism is inevitable – it’s only a question of magnitude 
Hall 10**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> – (Mimi, USA Today, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror,” 4/12, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm) </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">WASHINGTON — President Obama is asking world leaders to commit to a new international offense against nuclear terrorism — a threat so dire that it could challenge "our ultimate survival." At a first-ever summit of 47 countries to address the problem of "loose nukes," Obama will push for specific steps toward his goal of securing in four years the world's vast quantity of vulnerable nuclear material, such as uranium that could be enriched for a weapon. The summit begins today, but discussions will start in earnest Tuesday. Obama said "the single biggest threat" to U.S. security is the possibility of a terrorist organization with a nuclear weapon. "If there was ever a detonation in New York City, or London, or Johannesburg, the ramifications economically, politically and from a security perspective would be devastating," he said Sunday before meeting with South African President Jacob Zuma, who is attending the summit. Also attending: presidents, prime ministers and kings from countries such as Russia, China, India, Pakistan and Jordan. Obama continues one-on-one meetings with leaders today, and on Tuesday, the group will sign a "high-level communiqué" that recognizes the seriousness of the threat and outlines efforts to secure or eliminate vulnerable stockpiles, according to Gary Samore, the White House senior adviser for non-proliferation. The summit is "intended to rally collective action," White House Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes says. The meetings will present their own security challenge for the Secret Service and other law enforcement agencies because there will be so many world leaders at one time in Washington. Samore says several countries will announce plans to eliminate or better protect their stockpiles. Securing nuclear material is a challenging but necessary job "because the global stockpile of nuclear weapons materials is large enough to build 120,000 nuclear bombs (and) because Osama </span>__bin Laden<span style="color: black;"> considers it his religious duty to obtain nuclear weapons and to use them against the U</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__<span style="color: black;">S</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">tates," says Alexandra Toma of the Fissile Materials Working Group, a 40-member coalition dedicated to securing nuclear material. Five countries — the United States, Russia, the United Kingdom, China and France — are internationally recognized nuclear powers and have signed on to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT), which pledges to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and technology. India, Pakistan and North Korea also have nuclear weapons, and Israel is suspected of having warheads, according to the non-partisan Arms Control Association. Israel does not admit or deny having them. The United States and Russia hold the overwhelming majority of highly enriched uranium and plutonium, the material that could be used to build a crude but devastating bomb. According to the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a nuclear-security group run by former Democratic senator Sam Nunn of Georgia, there is no comprehensive inventory of the world's nuclear material. But 672 research reactors have been built worldwide and 272 operate in 56 countries, most at universities or other research centers where security is lax, the group says. "Much of the nuclear materials that are potentially vulnerable or could be used for nuclear weapons are actually in the hands of private industry, so government regulation is a very important component," Samore says. Some of the </span>__<span style="color: black;">material already has been stolen</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">, according to Harvard University's Matthew Bunn, author of </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Securing the Bomb</span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. "Nuclear theft is not a hypothetical worry," he says. "It's an ongoing reality." The International Atomic Energy Agency, a watchdog arm of the United Nations that monitors the use of nuclear power and technology, has documented 18 cases involving the theft or loss of plutonium or weapons-grade uranium, mostly occurring in the former Soviet Union. The IAEA says a majority of these cases have not had a pre-identified buyer and "amateurish character" and "poor organization" have been the hallmark of some of the cases involving unauthorized possession of materials. In Prague last year, Obama said, "Black market trade in nuclear secrets and nuclear materials abound." Government efforts have been made to secure nuclear material in recent years. Last week, the National Nuclear Security Agency (NNSA) worked with officials in Chile to remove nuclear material from reactors near Santiago and transport it to the USA. The agency has removed all significant amounts of highly enriched uranium from 18 countries, helped convert 60 reactors in 32 countries to the use of safer, low-enriched uranium and closed seven reactors. The NNSA also has secured highly enriched uranium in more than 750 buildings worldwide and safely stored 2,691 kilograms of nuclear material. Despite those efforts, in 2008, the Commission for the Prevention of Weapons of Mass Destruction warned, "</span>__<span style="color: black;">Unless the world community acts decisively and with great urgency, it is more likely than not that a weapon of mass destruction will be used in a terrorist attack" by 2013</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**

The risk of a nuclear attack against the US is high, and it will come from Afghanistan or Pakistan 
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wohlstetter 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior Fellow for Technology and Society at the Seattle-based Discovery Institute, former advisor to the Department of Defense (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, <span style="color: black;">http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html</span>) </span>**
**<span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Of all the WMD threats, nuclear weapons remain the most dangerous</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and the articles below explain why. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">WMD terror expert Graham Allison sees "A Failure to Imagine the Worst" as being at the root of our weak response to nuclear terror threat</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">s. His Harvard Kennedy School colleague, Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, offers a timeline for Al-Qaeda's nuclear quest in "Al Qaeda's Pursuit of Weapons of Mass Destruction" (Jan. 25, 2010). This introduction to Larssen's full length version ends with this link to his full pdf report (30 pages). What emerges are five central core truths about al-Qaeda's pursuit of WMD: </span>__(<span class="underline0">1) al-Qaeda's senior leaders are resolutely pursuing WMD capability; (2) al-Qeada devoted significant resources to WMD even as the 9/11 attacks were being prepared; (3) al-Qaeda's always pursues multiple alternate paths to WMD; (4) al-Qaeda's works in concert with other terror groups </span>__<span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">re WMD</span>; (5) al-Qaeda focuses on bigger attack plans, scorning<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;"> simple chemical, radiological </span>attacks with low casualty count<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">--9/11 is a benchmark to be exceeded via WMD. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Here is an assessment of growing risks to Pakistan's 60-100 nuke stockpile, by Brooking Institution scholar Bruce Riedel. A 4-pager from Foreign Policy adds highly informative detail on Pakistan's nuclear security arrangements--mostly, but not fully, reassuring. Back right after 9/11 Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf moved his country's arsenal to secure locations in 48 hours, fearing a US strike. Here is a longer piece from the Institute of International Strategic Studies on Pakistan's nuclear oversight reforms (pdf. file at the bottom prints at 12 pages). The WP 5-page article on Musharraf's actions after 9/11 is especially worth a serious full read. Among the scarier tidbits: (1) </span><span class="underline0">Musharraf explored storing Pakistani nukes with</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">--yikes!!!--</span><span class="underline0">the Taliban in Afghanistan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; (2) Pakistan's arsenal is under Army control and is secure while guarded at bases, but more vulnerable when being moved; (3) </span><span class="underline0">the US does not know where all the nukes are stored</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; (4) </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">at least one Pakistani nuclear scientist had interaction with </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Arabs close to </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">the Taliban & al-Qaeda</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In a politically incorrect (hence: truthful) summary appraisal of the Muslim Crescent from Africa to Southwest Asia Ralph Peters says toss Afghanistan, contain Pakistan and turn towards India: </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">AFGHANISTAN: We're there, and we don't know why</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We know why we went in 2001, but al Qaeda's long gone. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Initially, we were welcomed. Now, the more troops we send, the stronger the Taliban becomes</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We're tied to a corrupt, inept government despised by the people. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Afghans won’t fight for that government, but they'll give their lives for the Taliban.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And we're determined to turn the place into Disney World. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Should we just leave? No. Afghanistan provides a crucial base for striking the terrorists across the border in Pakistan. But a reduced presence</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and a willingness to back sympathetic Afghan tribes </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">offers far more return on our investment</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of blood and treasure than trying to turn Islamist fanatics into third-rate Americans. In a war-torn tribal society, you have to pick your tribes. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Afghanistan is worthless in itself.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Instead of concentrating on killing our enemies, we’re buying worthless real estate with American blood. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">PAKISTAN</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">: 180 million anti-American Muslims, thanks to generations of politicians who took American aid while playing the anti-American card with their constituents. The </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">government won't crack down on the Taliban factions it's preserving for a reconquest of Afghanistan after we exit. It sponsors terror attacks</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> against India, then leaves it to us to calm India down. Promised another $7.5 billion in aid, Pakistan's response has been not only to bite the hand that feeds it, but to gnaw it to a bloody pulp. And, in an act of strategic folly, we've left our troops in Afghanistan dependent upon a single supply line that runs for over a thousand miles through Pakistan. And the Pakistani media, with the government's blessing, blames us when the Taliban bomb a marketplace. Isn't it about time we got a grip? Around Pakistan's throat? But what about those nukes? What if they get mad at us and hand them over to terrorists? They won't. But if we're worried about the nukes, plan to destroy them — or leave that job up to India. Leaving the greatest power in history at the mercy of the impossibly corrupt regime in Pakistan guarantees that our troops lives are wasted next door in Afghanistan. Afghanistan isn't our problem. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">Pakistan's the problem</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And India's the future. </span><span class="underline0">Bottom Line. An al-Qaeda WMD threat persists and grows as Pakistan's stability erodes.</span>**

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction 
<span style="color: black;">Morgan 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct) </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question ‘‘Is Nuclear War Inevitable??’’ [10].4 In Section 1, Moore points out what most terrorists obviously already know about the nuclear tensions between powerful countries. No doubt, they’ve figured out that the best way to escalate these tensions into nuclear war is to set off a nuclear exchange. As Moore points out, all that</span>__<span style="color: black;"> militant terrorists would have to do is get their hands on one small nuclear bomb and explode it on either Moscow or Israel. Because of the Russian ‘‘dead hand’’ system, ‘‘where regional nuclear commanders would be given full powers should Moscow be destroyed,’’ it is likely that any attack would be blamed on the U</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">tates’’ [10]. Israeli leaders and Zionist supporters have, likewise, stated for years that if Israel were to suffer a nuclear attack, whether from terrorists or a nation state, it would retaliate with the suicidal ‘‘Samson option’’ against all major Muslim cities in the Middle East. Furthermore, the Israeli Samson option would also include attacks on Russia and even ‘‘anti-Semitic’’ European cities [10]. In that case, of course, Russia would retaliate, and the U.S. would then retaliate against Russia. China would probably be involved as well, as thousands, if not tens of thousands, of nuclear warheads, many of them much more powerful than those used at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, would rain upon most of the major cities in the Northern Hemisphere. Afterwards, for years to come, massive radioactive clouds would drift throughout the Earth in the nuclear fallout, bringing death or else radiation disease that would be genetically transmitted to future generations in a nuclear winter that could last as long as a 100 years, taking a savage toll upon the environment and fragile ecosphere as well. And what many people fail to realize is what a precarious, hair-trigger basis the nuclear web rests on. Any accident, mistaken communication, false signal or ‘‘lone wolf’ act of sabotage or treason could, in a matter of a few minutes, unleash the use of nuclear weapons, and once a weapon is used, then</span>__<span style="color: black;"> the likelihood of a rapid escalation of nuclear attacks is quite high</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> while the likelihood of a limited nuclear war is actually less probable since each country would act under the ‘‘use them or lose them’’ strategy and psychology; restraint by one power would be interpreted as a weakness by the other, which could be exploited as a window of opportunity to ‘‘win’’ the war. In other words, once Pandora’s Box is opened, it will spread quickly, as it will be the signal for permission for anyone to use them. Moore compares swift nuclear escalation to a room full of people embarrassed to cough. Once one does, however, ‘‘everyone else feels free to do so. The bottom line is that as long as large nation states use internal and external war to keep their disparate factions glued together and to satisfy elites’ needs for power and plunder, these nations will attempt to obtain, keep, and inevitably use nuclear weapons. And as long as large nations oppress groups who seek self determination, some of those groups will look for any means to fight their oppressors’’ [10]. In other words, as long as war and aggression are backed up by the implicit threat of nuclear arms, it is only a matter of time before the escalation of violent conflict leads to the actual use of nuclear weapons, and </span>__<span style="color: black;">once even just one is used</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">, it is very likely that </span>__<span style="color: black;">many, if not all, will be used, leading to</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> horrific scenarios of global death and </span>__<span style="color: black;">the destruction of much of human civilization</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> while condemning a mutant human remnant, if there is such a remnant, to a life of unimaginable misery and suffering in a nuclear winter. </span>**

Winning the war is irrelevant – it’s simply a question of reducing radicalism 
Pena 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Senior Fellow, The Independent Institute (December 9, Charles, <span class="hdr">“Can the U.S. Withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq?</span>” <span style="color: black;">http://www.independent.org/events/transcript.asp?eventID=145</span> ) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Here are the issues. Number one, both Peter and Ivan have talked about this, </span><span class="Underline">the Taliban is not monolithic.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> We here in the United States tend to equate the Taliban with Al Qaeda. They’re not one and the same. There are elements of the Taliban that would support Al Qaeda in wanting to attack the United States. There are other elements of the Taliban that are just interested in having a say in the government in Afghanistan. We’ve got to stop treating them monolithically as a single threat as if somehow they are a threat to the United States of America proper. They’re not.</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> We have to be willing to live with less than perfect in terms of what happens in Afghanistan, and I also think that we have to be willing to concede at this point that what’s left of Al Qaeda, whether they’re operating out of Pakistan or coming across the boarder periodically into Afghanistan. And by the way I saw a news report that supposedly even Bin Laden—assuming he’s still alive—finds his way across the border into Afghanistan periodically. <span class="Underline">Al Qaeda isn’t the same Al Qaeda that existed, that attacked us on 9/11, and Bin Laden in particular does not have operational control over a group that has global reach that can attack the United States. </span>Our larger problem is not Osama Bin Laden and what is left of Al Qaeda hiding out in Pakistan</span><span class="Underline">. Our larger problem is the ideology of radical Islam<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, which has seeped into the Muslim world in part because we’ve helped propagate that by our actions in places </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">like Iraq and Afghanistan. <span class="Underline">I would argue that whatever benefit there might be to getting Bin Laden at this point, and believe me I would love to be able to say that we got Osama Bin Laden, but strategically</span></span><span class="Underline"> the costs required to<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> try and get Bin Laden and </span>contain Al Qaeda far outweigh any residual benefit at this stage</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Bin Laden and the people surrounding him no longer represent operationally the real threat to the United States. <span class="Underline">The real threat is sort of everywhere within the Muslim world being fueled by ideology and anti-American sentiment.</span> So <span class="Underline">this notion of denying Al Qaeda safe haven in Afghanistan, I think, is a pie-in-the-sky notion. Al Qaeda—there will be some safe havens</span>. Why? Because there will always be people who have sympathies and decide they want to support groups like Al Qaeda. The question is, are they local threats or global threats? As long as they are local threats, then those are threats that the Afghan government has to deal with and ones that we may have to live with—again, less than perfect<span class="Underline">. It’s the global threat that Al Qaeda may represent that we have to worry about. I think we have to worry about that less now than we did eight years ago. I think we have to worry more that</span></span><span class="Underline"> we are radicalizing Muslims around the world</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, as witnessed by the bombings in Madrid and London in particular. </span><span class="Underline">Our very presence</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in two Muslim countries at the moment, Iraq and Afghanistan, </span><span class="Underline">goes a long, long way to fueling that radicalism that it’s U.S. occupation that makes us a target</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. There may be a certain amount of anti-Western, anti-U.S. elements in radical Islamic ideology, but </span><span class="Underline">most of that is because we’re there in their territories, not necessarily that they want to come after the United States in the U.S.</span>**

Indicts of counterterrorism underestimate it – it is sufficient to win the war while maintaining a small footprint 
<span style="color: black;">Long 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct) </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">This insoluble problem is why the counterterrorism option is important. If even a costly effort in Afghanistan cannot fully achieve the goal against al Qaeda, then it is crucial to determine whether a less costly effort can achieve a similar effect by keeping Afghanistan inhospitable to al Qaeda. This would be a clear and cost-effective alignment of resources with goals, the essence of strategy. Determining the viability of the counterterrorism option requires detailing what it might look like. </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Most discussion of the counterterrorism option has been vague. Riedel and O’Hanlon sum it up as ‘‘a few U.S. special forces teams,</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> modern intelligence fusion centers, </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">cruise-missile-carrying ships and u</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">nmanned </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">a</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">erial </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">v</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">ehicle</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">s</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">...’’ </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">But</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> there has been little effort to put flesh on this skeleton in terms of numbers and locations of U.S. troops. The following section presents </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">a</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> possible </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">counterterrorism force posture</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. Possible Counterterrorism Force Posture First, this posture <span class="Underline">would require maintaining bases in Afghanistan</span>. Three airfields (see map below) would be sufficient: Bagram (about 50 kilometers north of Kabul), Jalalabad (in eastern Afghanistan) and Kandahar (in southern Afghanistan). <span class="Underline">This</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> would enable forces to collect intelligence and rapidly target al Qaeda</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> in the Pashtun regions where its allies would hold sway</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. <span class="Underline">In terms of special operations forces, this posture would rely on two squadrons of </span>so-called ‘‘<span class="Underline">Tier 1’’ operators</span>, one at Jalabad Air Field (JAF) and one at Kandahar Air Field (KAF). These would be drawn from classified U.S. special mission units (SMUs) attached to Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), U.S. Army Special Forces’ Combatant Commanders in Extremis Forces (CIFs), and allied units such as the British Special Air Service (SAS) or Canada’s Joint Task Force 2 (JTF2).9 In addition, the posture would require a battalion equivalent of U.S. Army Rangers, U.S. Navy SEALs, U.S. Marine Special Operations Companies (MSOCs), British Special Forces Support Group, or some mix, with basically a company with each Tier 1 squadron or equivalent and one in reserve at Bagram.10 These forces would work together as task forces, with the Tier 1 operators being tasked with executing direct action missions to kill or capture al Qaeda targets while the other units would serve as security and support for these missions. According to Sean Naylor’s reporting, these direct action task forces are structured like the regional task forces in Iraq in 2006 that were tasked to hunt al Qaeda in Iraq. Naylor also reports similar units are already in place in Afghanistan.11 </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">In addition to these ground forces,</span> a battalion task <span style="font-size: 7pt;">force from the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">(SOAR) </span><span class="Underline">would be used to provide helicopter transport, reconnaissance, and fire support for the task forces</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. The battalion would bring some mix of MH-47 heavy lift helicopters and MH60 medium lift helicopters, including the MH-60L gunship.12 The helicopters have a combat radius of at least 300 kilometers (km), giving the task forces operational reach to almost any part of the Pashtun region.13 This battalion could be supplemented with additional aviation assets from other units, such as CV-22 tilt rotor aircraft from the Air Force’s 8th Special Operations Squadron or AH-64 attack helicopters from any one of several Army aviation units.14 The JAF based task force would likely need to operate principally in the heartland of the Haqqani network (Khost, Paktia, and Paktika provinces) as this would be where al Qaeda’s principal ally in the east could best protect its members (who are not generally Pashtun). For similar reasons, the KAF based task force would principally operate against targets in Kandahar, the home of the Quetta Shura Taliban, and some of the surrounding provinces such as Helmand and Oruzgan. Both task forces would nonetheless be capable of acting against targets elsewhere in the Pashtun regions. </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">In addition</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> to these two task forces, <span class="Underline">a counterterrorism option would retain the three Army Special Forces battalions and other elements that appear to be assigned to Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force Afghanistan</span> (CJSOTF-A).15 <span class="Underline">This provides roughly 54 Special Forces Operational Detachment Alphas</span> (ODAs), <span class="Underline">the basic unit of Army Special Forces</span>. While the task forces would focus purely on direct action, ODAs would partner with local forces to collect intelligence and secure specific areas.16 Additionally, <span class="Underline">these </span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">ODAs would provide crucial support to critical Afghan allies and reassure them that the U</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">nited </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">S</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">tates </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">is not going to entirely abandon them</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. CJSOTF-A should, in addition, have a dedicated helicopter battalion for its own lift. </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">This reassurance and support of local allies is a crucial and underappreciated part of a counterterrorism option</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">, though such support to local allies could also be part of a counterinsurgency campaign. Indeed, </span><span class="Underline">the<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> recently launched </span>Community Defense Initiative </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">(CDI) </span><span class="Underline">seeks to use Special Forces troops to build effective tribal militias to fight the Taliban and other militants</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">.17 <span class="Underline">With 54 ODAs, the United States could potentially support local allies in roughly 50 Afghan districts</span>, assuming one ODA per district with a few deployed in other roles.18 Logistics might prevent this upper limit from being reached but at a minimum several dozen districts could be supported by CJSOTF-A’s ODAs. <span class="Underline">These local allies would in many cases be from non-Pashtun groups (Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras</span>), which would limit their ability to be effective in Pashtun areas but would likely include at least a few other tribes that see more benefit working with the Afghan government and the United States than against them. <span class="Underline">The non-Pashtun groups were the critical allies of the U</span>nited <span class="Underline">S</span>tates <span class="Underline">in 2001 and remain staunchly against the Taliban and other militants.</span> The Tajiks of the Panjshir Valley, for example, are probably even more anti-Taliban than the United States and have made the province one of the most secure in the country.19 <span class="Underline">With U.S. support,</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> these groups will be able to prevent the expansion of militants outside Pashtun areas</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. <span class="Underline">Local allies in Pashtun areas will not only help contain militants but will also enable collection of intelligence to support the task force operations</span>. One example is the Shinwari tribe in Nangarhar province, which has never valued the Taliban. Shinwari militias are reported to be working with Special Forces in the Achin district of Nangarhar.20 The Afghan Border Police commander on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border at Spin Boldak, General Abdul Razziq, also derives substantial revenue from cross-border trade and will likely continue to fight the Taliban to maintain this revenue, making him a probable local partner.21 Another potential ally is the Alokozai tribe in the Arghandab district of Kandahar province, which has a history of resisting the Taliban.22 Supporting local allies does not mean abandoning the Afghan government any more than supporting local allies in the Awakening movement in Iraq’s Anbar province meant abandoning the Iraq government. However, it does pose risks, as local allies interests may not always align with those of the central government.23 Balancing the two will require deftness which will be discussed later. In addition to the two task forces and CJSOTF-A, a few more ‘‘enablers’’ would be required. First, </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">this posture would need additional special operations personnel focused on intelligence collection, along with a substantial complement of intelligence community personnel to collect both human and signals intelligence.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">24 Second, </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">it would require a significant complement of</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) including </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Predators, Reapers, and other specialized types along with their support personnel, equivalent to </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">perhaps<span class="Underline"> three squadrons</span><span style="color: black;">. Third, an AC-130 gunship squadron for air support would be needed, along with combat search and rescue teams from Air Force Special Operations Command. Clearly, ‘‘small’’ is a relative term. <span class="Underline">This special operations posture alone would be roughly five battalions of ground forces, eight aviation squadrons/ battalions</span>, and a few odds and ends plus higher headquarters. This would be approximately 5,000 U.S. and Coalition troops.25 In addition, a conventional force component would be needed to serve as a quick reaction force, to provide security for the bases, and to protect convoys. A reasonable estimate for this force would be a brigade or regimental combat team, giving a battalion to each base with the higher headquarters at Bagram. This would add about another 3,500 troops.26 In addition, about 500 U.S. personnel would remain as advisers and liaisons to Afghan security forces, particularly the Afghan National Army where they would be attached at brigade and corps level. Additional air support besides the UAVs and AC-130s would also be needed. Two squadrons of fighter-bombers (F-15E, A-10, etc.) likely would be sufficient, adding another 2,000 personnel or so.27 Finally, this posture would require additional staff, logistics, and support personnel (medical for instance), some but not all of which could be contractors, adding another 2,000 military personnel.28 </span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">This would be a total force of about 13,000 military personnel</span> </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">and some supporting intelligence community personnel and contractors. This is a high-end estimate and the counterterrorism option could potentially be done with fewer troops. Some military personnel with Afghanistan experience believe this mission could be undertaken with half this number of troops but the posture described above errs on the side of caution.29 <span class="Underline">This is small compared to the current posture in Afghanistan</span>, smaller still than the forces implied in General McChrystal’s report, and tiny compared to the peak number of forces in Iraq. <span class="Underline">On the other hand, it is vastly larger than any other counterterrorism deployment.</span> </span>**

=== === 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> Contention Two: Hegemony </span>=== 


We’ll isolate three scenarios. 

First is leadership. 

Obama’s 2014 deadline is not guaranteed and has created global confusion 
<span style="color: black;">Strobel 11/17</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">- Warren</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> P., foreign affairs and state dept. @ McClatchy Newspapers, 11/17, http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/11/17/103924/us-could-be-in-afghanistan-beyond.html</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">A top NATO official said</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Wednesday </span>__<span style="color: black;">that a complete handover of security to Afghan forces by 2014 was</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> "realistic, but </span>__<span style="color: black;">not guaranteed," and the transition could last into 2015 "or beyond." </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Mark Sedwill, NATO's senior civilian representative in Afghanistan, cautioned there could be "levels of violence that are, by Western standards, pretty eye-watering" even after 2014. Sedwill spoke on the eve of a NATO summit in Lisbon, Portugal, at which the alliance is expected to agree on a framework for the eventual departure of international troops from Afghanistan, where they've been fighting for nine years. </span>__<span style="color: black;">His remarks </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">appeared</span>__<span style="color: black;"> aimed at conditioning weary </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">American and European</span>__<span style="color: black;"> publics to the likelihood that the transition won't be clear-cut</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> or inexpensive. They</span>__<span style="color: black;"> threw the end date for U.S. and other foreign combat forces further into question. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Aides to President Barack Obama now are playing down the deadline of July 2011, when the first U.S. troops are supposed to withdraw — at least according to Obama's speech last December. Sedwill said there'd been a "refocus of attention on 2014" as the transition date. In Washington, a defense official said the Obama administration recognized that NATO training and assistance would continue beyond 2014, but he said the training, advising and limited logistical support would be the major mission. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to talk to reporters. Under a classified campaign plan that Sedwill and military commander U.S. Gen. David Petraeus submitted in advance of the summit, the Afghan army and police assume control of security in most Afghan provinces four years from now. The process is supposed to begin in the first half of 2011. </span>__The 2014 date__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, first suggested by Afghan President Hamid Karzai last year, "</span>__is a goal__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. We've always been clear about that," Sedwill said. The report to NATO leaders says that date "is realistic, but not guaranteed," he added. </span>**

Failure to reorient the strategy in Afghanistan spills over to the entirety of US foreign policy 
Fernholz 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – writing fellow at the American Prospect and Research Fellow at the New America Foundation (Tim, The American Prospect, “The Ultimate Test Case,” March, 2010, lexis) Katulis = security policy analyst at the Center for American Progress</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Obama's final decision in December offered something for everyone, or tried to: The U.S. would deploy an additional 30,000 soldiers to Afghanistan, fewer than McChrystal requested but still a tripling of the troop commitment to the conflict since Obama's inauguration. The strategy was virtually unchanged from what Obama had offered in the spring. The goal also remained the same: "to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al-Qaeda in Pakistan and Afghanistan and to prevent their return to either country in the future." <span class="Underline">Obama's plan echoed the surge he opposed in Iraq: An escalation to protect civilians in population centers and train Afghan security forces</span> that will, in theory, reverse the momentum of the insurgents and even co-opt those who are willing to lay down their arms. Along with aid from a "civilian surge" of U.S. officials and contractors with expertise in engineering, agriculture, justice, and local politics, the hope is that this will give the Afghan government time to recover from corruption and incompetence (the euphemism is "capacity building"). The one new development was a timeline: In July of 2011, the U.S. will start handing over responsibilities to the Afghans so that coalition forces can begin to withdraw. The president insisted on this timeline, and it remains the single most progressive aspect of the plan--a recognition that, in the greater scheme of things, the U.S. has better things to do for its national security than muck about in Afghanistan. "Any American president has to think about the political sustainability of his policies, and an American president that launches into policies that he can't sustain politically isn't doing his job," Hurlburt says. "That's true of Obama, that's true of Bush, it's true of everybody. You look at some of the things that Bush started and couldn't sustain--that's the worst of all possible worlds." </span><span class="bold"><span style="font-size: 4pt;">OBAMA'S TINKERING AROUND THE EDGES</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">--the timeline, the counterinsurgency strategy, the emphasis on development, the whole-of-government approach--marks a real departure from the previous administration's efforts. His rhetoric still holds the promise of the overhaul he campaigned on. But </span><span class="Underline">the president's failure to fundamentally reorient the Afghan conflict has broad ramifications for his</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> promised </span><span class="Underline">foreign-policy </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">reforms. Perhaps the mo</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">st significant loss is the big picture. <span class="Underline">Nearly 100,000 troops are committed to pursuing Obama's "narrow goal" of defeating al-Qaeda in Afghanistan.</span> But is this extensive involvement in an Afghan civil war the best way to fight al-Qaeda and like-minded groups? After all, <span class="Underline">one of al-Qaeda leaders' stated goals is drawing the U</span>nited <span class="Underline">S</span>tates<span class="Underline"> into expensive and intractable long-term conflicts. Even as we're leaving Iraq, doubling-down on Afghanistan plays into their hands.</span> "We did not ask for this fight," the president said in a major speech on Afghanistan in December. "On September 11, 2001, 19 men hijacked four airplanes and used them to murder nearly 3,000 people." It was an explanation straight out of the Bush era. Much of the 9-11 operation was carried out not in Afghanistan or Pakistan (or Iraq, for that matter) but in places like Germany and Florida. And terrorism experts warn that officials should not take for granted that al-Qaeda could re-establish a safe haven in Afghanistan, or that such safe havens are threats to the United States. </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The administration admits that fewer than 100 al-Qaeda terrorists remain in Afghanistan--and that many insurgents aren't ideological opponents of the U</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited <span class="Underline">S</span>tates. Some are petty criminals, some are simply armed local groups tired of being pushed around by the central government, and others fight merely for pay. (The U.S. was embarrassed to find out in December that the Taliban paid its fighters more than the Afghan National Army paid its soldiers.) <span class="Underline">Many of these insurgents are angry at the U.S. simply because we're there. </span>"The importance of a people not wanting to be occupied cannot be underestimated," says Matthew Hoh, a former Foreign Service officer who was the first person to resign a government post in protest of U.S. strategy in Afghanistan. "National will or ethnic will cannot be downplayed or misunderstood or denied." Meanwhile, the transnational terrorists we're supposedly fighting don't need bases in Afghanistan and Pakistan to attack us. Officials concede that safe havens in other failed or failing states must be pressed as well. Just weeks after Obama announced his strategy, a Nigerian man obtained explosives from an al-Qaeda affiliate in Yemen--which, along with places like Pakistan, Algeria, and Somalia, provides a "safe haven" for the group--and attempted to destroy an international flight as it landed in Detroit. U.S. intelligence agencies, despite having some relevant information, didn't act in time to prevent the bomber from getting on the flight. Perhaps the billions of dollars dedicated to the new troops in Afghanistan would be better served fixing structural failures in intelligence-gathering. Instead, we're seeing the considerable militarization of intelligence-gathering. After a suicide bomber killed seven Central Intelligence Agency employees in Afghanistan, CIA Director Leon Panetta wrote that "like our military, CIA officers are on the front lines against al-Qaeda and its violent allies." The officers were stationed there to manage a drone program that hunts terrorists in the mountains of Afghanistan and Pakistan. While fighting terrorists requires both intelligence-gathering and the kind of targeted strikes the CIA performs, there is a clear imbalance when a camp in Afghanistan has dozens of CIA employees but the National Counterterrorism Center has only eight or nine Middle East analysts. <span class="Underline">The focus on troops has also hampered Obama's goal of placing equal emphasis on civilian and military aspects of our foreign policy</span>. <span class="Underline">The military</span>, which <span class="Underline">has increasingly become America's primary presence abroad, </span>is resisting the attempt to narrow the focus of the war. Despite the White House's goal of training just over 200,000 Afghan soldiers and police, Pentagon officials plan to train 400,000. And Holbrooke, intended to be the civilian counterpart to Petraeus, has seen his influence diminish commensurate with his lack of resources. Though his office is still an important center of coordination, he plays a smaller-than-expected role in the White House-driven decision-making process. Obama's foreign-policy vision professed a need to address the root causes of conflict by building up local infrastructure and actively fostering better lives for people in places like Afghanistan. <span class="Underline">Despite a consensus</span>--which even includes Defense Secretary Robert Gates--<span class="Underline">that civilian development, medical access, and agricultural expertise are critical to counterinsurgency, the administration's budget request</span> in March <span class="Underline">reflected a heavy emphasis on defense over development.</span> Ambassador Eikenberry protested in a cable to Washington, asking for an additional $2.5 billion--60 percent more than he had been given. The military was receiving $68 billion. Even if civilian efforts were given more resources, overhauling the State Department and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to make them more effective remains a challenge--despite the fact that the State Department created a position to do just that. Although the administration expects to have 974 civilians on the ground by early 2010, beating a goal it set in March, this is a drop in the bucket: Afghanistan has a population of 28 million. Reports show a deep frustration from U.S. officials working on development projects, because they are almost entirely dependent on the military. Indeed, despite the growing acceptance of the need for civilian expertise, the military often finds itself trying to do the work of civilian agencies that aren't set up to operate in a war zone. "We're in a 'build the airplane while you're flying it' kind of situation," Hurlburt says. "If the effort to produce a better, much more energetic and smartly focused civilian effort in Afghanistan succeeds, it will become the template for broader reform of the institutions." That template could be useful, Hurlburt adds, or it could be detrimental, since the lessons U.S. development officers learn in Afghanistan may not apply so well to countries that need U.S. help but aren't in the middle of a war. <span class="Underline">This narrow focus on the military conflict also distracts from Pakistan</span>, Afghanistan's nuclear neighbor, <span class="Underline">where an unstable government and the proliferation of extreme Islamist groups are of much more interest to the U</span>nited <span class="Underline">S</span>tates. "I am not sure what 40,000 additional troops in Afghanistan can do about the greater global security threat, instability in Pakistan," Katulis told me last fall. "You have nearly daily--and sometimes twice-a-day--attacks targeted inside of Pakistan, which is five times more populous and has nuclear weapons." Just consider the numbers: Obama is spending $1.5 billion a year on aid to Pakistan and over $68 billion fighting a war in Afghanistan. With Secretary of State Hillary Clinton visiting Pakistan, the administration has had some success in navigating the nation's complex politics. Clinton is trying to broaden the U.S.-Pakistan relationship from working with the government on national-security issues toward a holistic engagement with the entire country. It's exactly the kind of approach that Obama promised, but it is undermined by the use of drone strikes on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, which have increased anti-American sentiment. The Obama team has set aside the Bush administration's end goal of installing a democracy and instead made a limited version of that aim the means to their central end: Everything comes down to eliminating the terrorist presence in Afghanistan. Vikram Singh, Holbrooke's defense adviser, says the region is the "epicenter" of al-Qaeda's action, which is why the administration has made preventing the group's re-establishment there a more pressing goal than dealing with al-Qaeda globally. With even John Kerry, now the chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, using the distinctly Bush-administration phrase "global counterinsurgency" in his speeches on Afghanistan, progressive attempts to change the way we think about terrorism threats have taken a step back. <span class="bold">THE PRESIDENT SEEMS TO HAVE</span> settled into the Washington consensus that he criticized as an up-and-coming senator. His Afghanistan strategy buys into the idea that American troops can defeat tenacious insurgencies, that our officials have the ability to build even the most basic state from the ground up, and that terrorists represent a monolithic enemy around the world. The cocky senator of last spring has been replaced by a cautious and tightly controlled president. There was a time when Obama could flout conventional wisdom, but now he must accommodate it. It's true that Obama did not start this war, did not under-resource it for eight years, and did not fail to pursue Osama bin Laden at Tora Bora. The credit for those dubious achievements goes to George W. Bush. But the new president has missed opportunities to shift how our government approaches these problems. Many of the campaign aides who helped craft Obama's forward-thinking foreign-policy vision remain in his inner circle, but are superseded by a group of veteran officials (Clinton, Gates, Petraeus, Holbrooke, National Security Adviser James Jones) whose commitment to new ideas varies. It remains to be seen how much they--and the responsibilities of being president--have shifted Obama's personal foreign-policy vision.</span> <span class="Underline">The stakes are high in Afghanistan</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> not only on the merits but </span><span class="Underline">because success buys him the credibility to advance other foreign-policy initiatives that don't tend to go over well with domestic audiences</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">: closing Guantanamo Bay, engaging Iran, pressuring Israel toward peace, reaching out to the Muslim community, and reducing nuclear weapons in America and the world.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Even given the daunting odds, </span><span class="Underline">it is still possible that a new mode of foreign policy--one that is executed by civilians and soldiers equally--could spring from the crucible of Afghanistan.<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The other scenario, though, is that using the military in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as the central means of fighting terrorism leaves reform of law enforcement and intelligence out in the cold, <span class="Underline">hinders the transformation of the civilian agencies, and prevents Obama from spending resources on other projects</span>. <span class="Underline">A failure in Afghanistan is a failure to change the way this country approaches foreign policy. </span>Worse, if the next two years don't show an Afghan government that can handle bask ic governing and security, then </span><span class="Underline">all of Obama's ideas will be wrapped in that failure, hindering his ability to execute any of his other initiatives</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**

A robust foreign policy is key to solving global problems – withdrawal opens up agenda space 
Cohen 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Michael Cohen, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation ("Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back progress on other fronts," The New York Daily News, 10/30/09, www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html, accessed 9/16/10) [DHUANG] </span>**
**__Sending__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> from 30,000 to 40,000 </span>__troops to that tumultuous nation will__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> likely </span>__wreak havoc on Obama's broader first-term foreign policy agenda__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - consuming resources, sucking up time and attention, and ultimately subverting his larger foreign policy goals. In August, National Intelligence Council Chairman John Brennan declared that under Obama, "the fight against terrorists and violent extremists has been returned to its right and proper place: no longer defining - indeed, distorting - our entire national security and foreign policy, but rather serving as a vital part of those larger policies." But </span>__the military commitment endorsed by__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">President </span>__Obama would have the reverse effect - officially making__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> stabilization in</span> __Afghanistan__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and the war against Al Qaeda and the Taliban </span>__the President's top priority.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> For example, one of the most serious challenges facing the country's national security bureaucracy - one Obama and Secretary of State Clinton have expressed serious concern about in the past - is the skewed balance between resources for our military and civilian agencies. Nearly everyone in the foreign policy community agrees that both State and the U.S. Agency for International Development are badly under-resourced. But with Obama's likely troop increase in Afghanistan, agencies like the State Department and USAID will see their dwindling capacity devoted to assisting the military as opposed to the long-term diplomacy and development work that can further U.S. interests in places not named Afghanistan or Pakistan. The civilian-military balance will only become further skewed. And if the administration requests $100 billion a year for the war in Afghanistan, in the face of looming budget deficits, what are the chances Congress will loosen its purse strings further for two underappreciated foreign policy agencies? Finally, </span>__Obama and his advisers will be pressed in devoting their attention__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and political capital </span>__to other foreign policy matters, whether it's__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> pushing for a solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, organizing an international coalition to confront </span>__the Iranian nuclear program or__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> hammering out international agreements on </span>__climate change__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and trade. </span>__It's never easy for Presidents and their advisers to proverbially "walk and chew gum at the same time__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">," and having 100,000 troops in Afghanistan will make it that much harder. But above all, Obama's goal of changing America's mind-set from the belief that there is a military solution to every national security challenge will be dealt a defining and perhaps fatal blow - and in the end, that is probably the most important reason why troop levels in Afghanistan matter and why the President should think twice. The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President. As he prepares to announce a decision that will define his presidency, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama would be wise to consider the words of one of his predecessors in the Oval Office, Lyndon Johnson, who after leaving office told a biographer, "History provided too many cases where the sound of the bugle put an immediate end to the hopes and dreams of the best reformers." No doubt</span> __Obama knows what ultimately happened to Johnson's policy agenda - and his presidency.__**

Withdrawal preserves the United States as a role model for the world and its global leadership 
Zachary 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - G. Pascal Zachary, author, member of the In These Times Board of Editors, previous senior writer for the Wall Street Journal ("Get Out Now: The Case for Immediate Withdrawal from Afghanistan," 10/09/09, inthesetimes.com/article/5006/get_out_now, accessed 9/16/10) [DHUANG] </span>**
**__For__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> President </span>__Obama, the stakes are high. His__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> young </span>__presidency is on the line.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Perhaps because his secretary of defense, Gates, is a Republican, </span>__Obama has personalized the decision on Afghan strategy to a dangerous degree.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Afghanistan is now Obama’s war. </span>__By deciding to reduce__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, if not altogether remove, </span>__U.S. combat troops from the country, the president will take a step towards the moral high ground that he__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> so often </span>__desperately seeks to inhabit. Morality must return to the center of America’s relations with the world__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Afghanistan could become, as Obama likes to say, “a teaching moment,” for this president and his wider constituency, the citizens of the planet. </span>__The Bush presidency damaged__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> both </span>__the image of the United States as a role model__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> for promoters of democratization around the world, and further entrenched a darker counter-view of America as a reactionary force in world affairs. The Obama presidency creates an opening to restore the brighter side. </span>__In continuing the war in Afghanistan, Obama risks destroying his chances to redeem the United States in the eyes of the world.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> By ending the Afghan war, quickly and decisively, the president will match his rhetoric of hope with reality. He will also save U.S. lives and create new openings for negotiation, diplomacy and regional solutions to problems in distant lands. </span>**
**Independently a strong foreign policy is key to effectively address global warming**
**Hague 9/27** (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10)

But I particularly wanted to make the point to this audience and to circulate to a wider audience certain points about climate change this morning, which is perhaps the 21st century's biggest foreign- policy challenge, along with preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. I believe those two threats over the longer term are the biggest threats to the peace and security of the world. A world that is failing to respond to climate change is one in which the values embodied in the United Nations will not be met, and it's a world in which competition and conflict would win out over collaboration. We're at a very crucial point in the global debate on this subject. Many people are questioning, in the wake of Copenhagen, whether we should continue to seek a response to climate change through the U.N. and whether we can ever hope to deal with this enormous challenge. And I will <span class="s1">first </span>argue today that<span class="s1"> an effective response to climate change underpins our security and prosperity; second, that our response should be to strive for a binding global deal, </span>whatever the setbacks;<span class="s1"> and third</span>, I will set out why<span class="s1"> effective deployment of foreign policy assets is crucial to mobilizing the political will needed if we're going to shape an effective response. </span>Now, Ban Ki-moon is right to have made climate change his top priority. Two weeks ago, I was talking about Britain's values in a networked world. I said then that a successful response to climate change must be a central objective of British foreign policy. And I said this not only because I believe action against climate change is in line with a values-based foreign policy, but because it underpins our prosperity and security. You can't have food, water or energy security without climate security; they are interconnected and inseparable. They form four resource pillars on which global security, prosperity and equity stand. Each depends on the other. Plentiful, affordable food requires reliable and affordable access to water and energy. Increasing dependence on coal, oil and gas threatens climate security, increasing the severity of floods and droughts, damaging food production, exacerbating the loss of biodiversity, and in countries that rely on hydropower, undermining energy security through the impact on the availability of water. As the world becomes more networked,<span class="s1"> the impact of climate change in one country or region will affect the prosperity and security of others around the world. </span>No one can have failed to be appalled by the devastating floods in Pakistan. They overwhelmed the capacity of government to respond and opened political space for extremists. While Pakistan has borne the brunt of the human impact, China too has been hit on a vast scale by a seemingly endless sequence of droughts, floods and deadly mudslides. The Russian drought last month damaged the wheat harvest, leading to an export ban. World prices surged, hitting the poorest hardest, and sparking riots over bread prices in far away Mozambique. While no one weather event can ever be linked with certainty to climate change, the broad patterns of abnormality seen this year are consistent with climate-change models. They provide an illustration of the events we will be encountering increasingly in the future. So the clock is ticking, and the time to act is now. We must all take responsibility for this threat and take robust action. But we must also be clear-headed about the difficulties of reaching agreement and not lose heart when the going gets tough. The post-war leaders set up the United Nations in the aftermath of conflagration. They saw the pressing need for global solutions to global problems: cooperation not conflict, through frameworks and institutions embedded in the rule of law, and an international system that is fair and offers everyone a realistic prospect of security and prosperity.<span class="s1"> Failure to respond to climate change is inimical to all these values, undermining trust between nations, intensifying competition for resources, and shrinking the political space available for cooperation. It is an affront to fairness,</span> since it puts the greatest burden on those who have done least to cause the problem and are least able to deal with its consequences. It is incompatible with the values and aspirations that the U.N. embodies. And it's incompatible with the values and aspirations of British foreign policy. For more than 20 years, we've been striving to build an effective international response to climate change. But we have lacked the collective ambition required. We need to shift investment urgently from high-carbon "business as usual" to the low-carbon economy. This means building an essentially decarbonized global economy by mid- century. At the same time, we must ensure development is climate resilient; otherwise, the changes in climate that are already unavoidable will block the path for hundreds of millions of people from poverty to prosperity. These changes also threaten to sweep away the investments in development we have made, and just as the bridges and schools in Pakistan were swept away. To drive that shift in investment from low to high carbon, we need a global climate change deal under the United Nations. Now, some have argued that we should abandon hope of doing so. They say Copenhagen proved it's all too difficult; we should focus instead on less inclusive and less demanding responses, such as coalitions of the willing. But we believe this would be a strategic error. It mistakes the nature of the task, which is to expand the realm of the possible, not to lower our ambition by accepting its current limits. And we must recognize this at Cancun. One thing Copenhagen did give us was a set of political commitments, captured in the Copenhagen Accord, on which we can build. More than 120 countries have now associated themselves with that accord, and that represents a broad and growing consensus. We now need to ensure that we live up to the commitments we made to each other in the accord, and reach out even more widely. Copenhagen, despite those accords, was a strategic setback, but it was not by any means the end of the road. We need to be clear why it failed to live up to high expectations and why it did not deliver a legally binding deal. Many people say that it failed because of process: The diplomats and the politicians had created a negotiation that was too difficult and too complex. But this misses the point. International treaties are an outcome, not an input, of political bargains. If you've made the political commitment to deliver, you can make the process work to deliver. The real reason Copenhagen did not deliver on high expectations was a lack of political will. Many in developing countries saw a gap between the words and the deeds of the industrialized economies. They questioned whether we really believed our own rhetoric. And to answer those questions, we each need to start at home. That is why the coalition government to which I belong has committed itself to being the greenest government ever in the United Kingdom, and why, with others in Europe, we are calling on the European Union to commit to a 30-percent cut in emissions by 2020 without waiting for the rest of the world to act. The UK is already the world leader in offshore wind, with more projects installed, in planning and in construction than any other country in the world. We're undertaking the most radical transformation of our electricity sector ever. We aim to provide over 30 percent of our domestic electricity from renewables by 2020. We have committed to build no new coal-fired power stations without carbon capture and storage technology, and we've announced our intention to continue the demonstration projects of that. And because it's imperative that foreign and domestic policies are mutually reinforcing, we must ensure that our approach is coherent. Now, that's one reason we have established the new British National Security Council: to ensure this happens across the full range of issues, including climate change. And that's why I work hand in glove with Chris Huhne, the British Energy and Climate Change secretary, and Andrew Mitchell, the International Development secretary, to ensure that our domestic action reflects our level of international ambition. But we won't succeed, of course, if we act alone. We must aim for a framework that is global and binding. It needs to be global because climate change affects everyone. Only a response that allows everyone a voice will generate a sense of common purpose and legitimacy. Only a response that is binding will convince investors that we intend to keep the promises we make to each other. Businesses need clear political signals, so let's show them an unequivocal green light. We are now a few weeks away from the 16th Conference of Parties on Climate Change in Cancun. And I commend the consultative and collaborative approach Mexico has taken ahead of this meeting. Thanks to their determination and foresight, we have a chance in Cancun to regain momentum and make progress on key issues such as forests, technology, finance and transparency of commitments. Cancun will -- may not get us all the way to a full agreement, but it can put us back on track to one. That said, the negotiations can't succeed inside a bubble. The negotiators in the U.N. process can't themselves build political will. They have to operate on the basis of current political realities in the countries they represent. And it's those realities that limit the ambition that we can set in the -- in such negotiations, and it's those realities that we now need to shift. There is no global consensus on what climate change puts at risk, geopolitically and for the global economy, and thus on the scale and urgency of the response we need. We must build a global consensus if we are to guarantee our citizens security and prosperity. That is a job for foreign policy. A fundamental purpose here for foreign policy is to shift the political debate, to create the political space for leaders and negotiators to reach agreement. We didn't get that right before Copenhagen, and we must get it right now. So we urgently need to mobilize foreign ministers and the diplomats they lead, as well as institutions such as the Council on Foreign Relations, to put climate change at the heart of foreign- policy thinking. When I became foreign secretary in May, I said the core goals of our foreign policy were to guarantee Britain's security and prosperity. Robust global action on climate change is essential to that agenda. That is why the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, under my leadership, is a vocal advocate for climate diplomacy. All British ambassadors carry the argument for a global low-carbon transition in their breast pocket or in their handbag. Climate change is part of their daily vocabulary, alongside the traditional themes of foreign policy. And they're supported by our unique network of climate attaches throughout the world. The core assets of foreign policy are its networks and its convening power. Foreign policy can build political impulses to overcome barriers between sectors and cultures. In a networked world, diplomacy builds partnerships beyond government. And nowhere are those partnerships more vital than on climate. So we must mobilize all our networks, not just across government but between governments, using organizations such as the Commonwealth as well. We must reach out, beyond, to NGOs, faith groups and businesses. And of all these, perhaps business engagement is the key to making a difference. It's business that will lead low-carbon transition. It's business that best understands the incentives needed to help us all prosper. We must also harness scientific expertise in cutting-edge low- carbon technologies. The scientific community will develop the goods which will power the low-carbon economy and drive global ambition on climate change. And that's why the British government has a science and innovation network, which fosters collaborative research in the U.K. and other countries. Now, what can the U.K. and the European Union do to make that fundamental shift and shape a global consensus on climate change? The most serious problem at Copenhagen, and the strongest brake on political will, was and is a lack of confidence in the low-carbon economy. Too few people in too few countries are yet convinced that a rapid move to low carbon is compatible with economic recovery and growth. They see the short-term economic and domestic stability risks before the opportunities and the longer-term risks of inaction. There should be only one European response to that confidence gap. The EU, in my view, must accelerate its own progress and demonstrate that a low-carbon growth path makes us more competitive. I am convinced this is in the long-term interests of Europe's economy. We have learned painful lessons from the oil price shocks. We must modernize our infrastructure. The opportunities are out there. The global industry in low-carbon and environmental goods and services is already estimated to be worth up to 3.2 trillion pounds a year. Nearly a million British people are now employed in this sector, and that's why we are creating a green investment bank to ensure that we can properly support and develop low-carbon industry. But we need to redouble our efforts, both in the EU (itself ?) and in our engagement with partners. Each of us as member states will be better able to accelerate if we're doing so together as the world's largest single market. And by opening up this effort through partnership with others, we can make it easier for them to accelerate, too. So we'll be at the forefront of pushing for low-carbon modernization of Europe's infrastructure and energy policy. The European Union's budget until 2013 is set out in the current "financial perspective". We will argue -- we will need to agree the financial perspective for the seven years after that, the period including our 2020 climate goals. And it's -- as ever, it's right that the EU budget should reflect the prevailing economic circumstances. It's also right that we direct the budget to today's challenges, not those of yesterday. And that means one that supports the transition to a low-carbon economy. Action in Europe alone will not be enough. We need both the developed and developing world to take action. And this week Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, and I have tasked our teams to come together to shape a coordinated, diplomacy-led effort on climate change, combining the strengths of our respective foreign services. I've just put the case for bringing a new urgency for low-carbon transition within the EU. But together we should carry that urgency in external dialogues, whether they are with the United States, China or India. The <span class="s1">transition to low carbon will happen faster and maximize the benefit for all if the United States </span>-- historically the world's largest emitter<span class="s1"> -- is at the leading edge. I recognize </span>the political challenges that the U.S. administration faces and welcome<span class="s1"> President Obama's commitment to combat climate change. </span>As he said in his State of the Union speech, "the nation that leads the clean-energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy." Whatever the outcome of the upcoming midterm elections in the U.S., there is scope for political unity around an economic agenda that targets new energy opportunities and new jobs. American business understands this new market and should want to lead it. But to make these new clean-energy investments at the required pace and on a sufficient scale, they need the right incentives<span class="s1">. On climate, </span>as in so many areas,<span class="s1"> the world looks to the US for leadership, because it has the economic clout and diplomatic leverage to shift the global debate. </span>And I look forward to working with the U.S. administration and indeed with the Council on Foreign Relations to raise global ambitions and put us back on the path to sustainable growth. A key challenge for Europe is to build an economic partnership with China that reinforces the steps China is taking towards a low- carbon economy. These steps include its recent announcement of the five provinces and eight cities that have been designated as China's low-carbon pilots. Together these pilots cover 350 million people, so an ambitious approach to these schemes, tenaciously implemented, could provide a critical boost to global confidence in the concept of low- carbon development and help put China on the path to sustainable prosperity. It could also produce huge two-way investment and partnership opportunities. Europe should place itself at the heart of these, working with China to maximize the ambition and the opportunities and to build the shared technology standards that will shape a global low- carbon market. In China's case, low-carbon opportunity is matched by urgent low- carbon need. The pace of growth in China means average Chinese per- capita emissions could soon eclipse those of Europe. So while China has taken some very welcome steps, without a commitment from China to further decisive action, the efforts of others will be in vain. The emerging economies face a dilemma. Often they are the most vulnerable to the direct effects of climate change. But they are concerned that action against climate change will adversely affect their development. The challenge to all countries is to have a high- growth, low-carbon economy. Some, like Brazil, which derives nearly half its energy from clean and renewable resources, are rising to that challenge. India is another, embodying in microcosm the challenge that climate change poses to us all. Threatened by food, water and energy insecurity, India has responded with ambitious plans to generate 20 gigawatts of solar power by 2022. South Africa, a coal-dependent economy, the success of which is so important to growth and prosperity within the continent, has made a significant offer to deviate their emissions from the business-as- usual pathway. The opportunity is for the emerging economies -- for the emerging economies is to make a direct leap to low carbon, avoiding the high- carbon lock-in that we see in the developed world: a new, sustainable pathway for prosperity and security. A global low-carbon economy is not an idealist's pipe dream but a 21st-century realist's imperative. Countries that adapt quickly to a carbon-constrained world will be better able to deliver lasting prosperity for their citizens. As a Permanent Security Council member, I'm determined that the U.K. will play its full part in that, not least by supporting climate finance for the poorest. Collectively, we share a responsibility to those most vulnerable to the impact of climate change. Bangladesh, with its densely populated coastal region, is particularly susceptible to rising sea levels. Glacial melt, sea-level rises and El Nino-type events threaten the lives of millions across South America. And the very existence of many small island states is under threat. We have a shared vision to meet the Millennium Development Goals. But in a world without action on climate change, that vision will remain a dream, and the efforts of the last 10 years would So climate change is one of the gravest threats to our security and prosperity. Unless we take robust and timely action to deal with it, no country will be immune to its effects. However difficult it might seem now, a global deal under the U.N. is the only response to this threat which will create the necessary confidence to drive a low- carbon transition. We must be undaunted by the scale of the challenge. We must continue to strive for agreement<span class="s1">. We must not accept that because there is no consensus on a way forward now, that there never will be one. And to change the debate, we must imaginatively deploy all of the foreign policy assets in our armory until we've shaped that global consensus. </span>A successful response to climate change will not only stabilize the climate, but open the way to a future in which we can meet our needs through cooperation, in accordance with the ideals of the United Nations. Failure to do so will enhance competitive tendencies and make the world more dangerous, so this is not actually a hard choice. We have to get this right. If we do, we can still shape our world. And if we don't, the world will determine our destiny for us.



**Warming kills billions. Risks extinction.**
**Cummins and Allen ‘10** (Ronnie, Int’l. Dir. – Organic Consumers Association, and Will, Policy Advisor – Organic Consumers Association, “Climate Catastrophe: Surviving the 21st Century”, 2-14, HYPERLINK "http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6" http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/02/14-6)

The hour is late.<span class="s1"> Leading climate scientists </span>such as James Hansen<span class="s1"> are literally shouting at the top of their lungs that the world needs to reduce emissions </span>by 20-40% as soon as possible, and 80-90% by the year 2050, if we are to avoid climate chaos, crop failures, endless wars, melting of the polar icecaps, and a disastrous rise in ocean levels.<span class="s1"> Either we radically reduce CO2 and carbon dioxide equivalent </span>(CO2e, which includes all GHGs, not just CO2) pollutants (currently at 390 parts per million and rising 2 ppm per year) to 350 ppm, including agriculture-derived methane and nitrous oxide pollution,<span class="s1"> or </span>else<span class="s1"> survival </span>for the present and future generations <span class="s1">is in jeopardy.</span> As scientists warned at Copenhagen, business as usual and <span class="s1">a corresponding 7-8.6 degree Fahrenheit rise in global temperatures means that the carrying capacity of the Earth in 2100 will be reduced to one billion people. Under this hellish scenario, billions will die of thirst, cold, heat, disease, war, and starvation. If the U.S. significantly reduces greenhouse gas emissions, other countries will follow. </span>One hopeful sign is the recent EPA announcement that it intends to regulate greenhouse gases as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. Unfortunately we are going to have to put tremendous pressure on elected public officials to force the EPA to crack down on GHG polluters (including industrial farms and food processors). Public pressure is especially critical since "just say no" Congressmen-both Democrats and Republicans-along with agribusiness, real estate developers, the construction industry, and the fossil fuel lobby appear determined to maintain "business as usual." 


Second is military overstretch. 

Afghanistan will obliterate American primacy 
<span style="color: black;">Pyne 9 </span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">- </span>**<span class="justify1"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/) </span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Since we invaded Iraq six and a half years ago and Afghanistan eight years ago,</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">we have lost nearly 7,000 American soldiers and contractors killed in action with tens of thousands more severely wounded at the cost of a trillion dollars t</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">hus far.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> October has been the single deadliest month for US forces since the war began. <span class="Underline">It shouldn’t take a military strategist to realize that after fighting a war for over eight years without any real idea how to win, it might be time to consider a drastic change in strategy</span>. This should include a sober assessment of the cost/benefit analysis of staying and fighting at a rising cost in American blood and treasure versus conserving our military strength and bringing our troops home to defend America from terrorist attack. The Soviets fought an eight year long war in Afghanistan before finally realizing that victory was not a possibility in a conflict which some say began a chain of events that resulted in the collapse of the Evil Empire thanks to Reagan’s support of proxy forces against the Soviet invaders. If the Soviet Union could not win after eight years of fighting in Afghanistan, what makes our leaders think that we can? </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">The longer we keep large numbers of our troops fighting no-win counterinsurgency wars of attrition in</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Iraq and </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">Afghanistan, the weaker and more vulnerable we will become to the point wher</span></span>__e<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> eventually the American Empire</span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">, as some call it, </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">may</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> <span class="Underline">decline precipitously or</span> perhaps even </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">collapse</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> altogether.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Worse yet, America’s increasing military weakness highlighted further by Obama’s ongoing demolition of our nuclear deterrent might invite a catastrophic attack from our from our Sino-Russian alliance enemies. <span class="Underline">Already some of our retired generals have stated that they believe our Army and Marine Corps ground forces have been broken by their over-deployment in</span> the desert sands of Iraq and <span class="Underline">Afghanistan</span>. If the Soviet Union could not win after eight years of fighting in Afghanistan, what makes our leaders think that we can? The longer we keep large numbers of our troops bogged down fighting two no-win counterinsurgency wars of attrition in Iraq and Afghanistan, the weaker and more vulnerable we will become to the point where eventually the American Empire, as some call it, may decline precipitously or perhaps even collapse altogether. Worse yet, America’s increasing military weakness highlighted further by Obama’s ongoing demolition of our nuclear deterrent, might invite a catastrophic attack from our from our Sino-Russian alliance enemies. <span class="Underline">Already some of our retired generals have stated that they believe</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> our</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Army and Marine Corps ground </span><span style="color: black;">forces have been broken by their over-deployment in</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> the desert sands of Iraq and </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">Afghanistan. This high tempo</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> of deployments </span><span style="color: black;">has resulted in much of our military equipment to break down while procurement and readiness are at their lowest levels over the past quarter century</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. Our national security always suffers when we get bogged down in wars where our troops are asked to bleed and die, but are not permitted by our political leaders to win. Our brave soldiers should never be allowed to sacrifice in this way without the hope of victory! The best way to support our troops is to bring them home to their families and make a commitment that we will not let a week go by without thanking a soldier for their willingness to risk life and limb to defend us all. What is it going to take to get our political leaders to realize that the costs of staying and fighting the long war in Iraq and Afghanistan greatly outweigh the costs of redeploying out of theater? The same voices we hear calling for us to send another 40,000 to 100,000 troops to Afghanistan are the ones that would have called for us to keep surging and fighting in Vietnam in perpetuity at the cost of hundreds of thousands of our soldiers lives. It didn’t make sense to do that then and it doesn’t make sense to do so now. Ronald Reagan won the Cold War against the Evil Soviet Empire in part by employing proxies to fight and win our battles for us. We need to learn from Reagan and re-employ a strategy of arming and supporting proxies both states and insurgent movements to fight our wars so our troops don’t have to. </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">America needs to conserve its military strength for a time when we may be called upon to fight great power enemies, not waste it bogged down fighting Vietnams in the desert </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">as we have been doing the past several years. </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">Until we do, we will remain in a state of imperial overstretch and strategic paralysis with no reserve forces </span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">to fight new hypothetical wars of necessity </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">and with a continuing window of vulnerability which our enemies will undoubtedly continue to exploit. </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">North Korea has already been exploiting our window of vulnerability with their ongoing nuclear missile buildup as has</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> the Islamic Republic of <span class="Underline">Iran is doing with its near imminent development of weaponized nukes. Even Russia has done so with their invasion of US-ally Georgia</span> this past year. </span>**

Empirics prove – the United States will leave Afghanistan in military ruin 
<span style="color: black;">Kuhner 10</span> **<span style="font-size: 7pt;">- the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Who lost Afghanistan? Obama's troop withdrawal timetable makes defeat inevitable,” 6/25, Lexis Academic) </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">America is heading toward a colossal defeat in Afghanistan. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Unless there is a dramatic change in policy and leadership, the U</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__<span style="color: black;">S</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>__<span style="color: black;">will suffer the most calamitous military setback in its history - one that will mark the end of the American moment</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">, the loss of superpower status in the eyes of the world. President Obama was correct to dismiss Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal as the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan. No military officer - no matter how capable or high-ranking - should be allowed to publicly disrespect his civilian bosses, especially the commander in chief and vice president. This demoralizes our troops in the field and fosters confusion between the civilian and military sectors of government. Gen. McChrystal exhibited extremely poor judgment in allowing a reporter from Rolling Stone magazine to gain almost unfettered access to his inner circle. He allowed his aides to shoot their mouths off to an antiwar reporter from a countercultural, antiwar magazine. He should have known he was setting himself up for a public-relations fiasco - a showdown with Mr. Obama's national security team. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is mocked. U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan Karl W. Eikenberry is derided as a back-stabbing opportunist. The U.S. special envoy to the region, Richard Holbrooke, is viewed as incompetent. National Security Adviser James L. Jones is called a "clown." Aides close to Gen. McChrystal even admit that he was disappointed with his early meetings with Mr. Obama. Gen. McChrystal's first encounter with the new president was simply a "10-minute photo-op." He is described as saying the president was "disengaged" as well as "awkward and intimidated" in front of military brass in another meeting. This all may be true. But going public with it put Gen. McChrystal in an untenable position. He had to go. The norms of military culture dictate that one cannot openly criticize - never mind ridicule - superiors. Yet the dismissal of Gen. McChrystal reveals the profound failure of Mr. Obama's wartime leadership. Gen. McChrystal voted for Mr. Obama. He was the president's handpicked successor to lead the military campaign in Afghanistan. Along with Mr. Obama, it was Gen. McChrystal who formulated - and signed off on - the counterinsurgency strategy now being implemented. He agreed to the strict rules of engagement, which prevent our soldiers from effectively fighting the Taliban for fear of hurting civilians. In short, Gen. McChrystal was the president's man: the liberal warrior who was eager to implement nation-building and win the hearts and minds of the population in Afghanistan. He was to execute the postmodern, Obama way of war - transforming American troops into an armed Peace Corps. U.S. soldiers are not to kill terrorists and bomb their sanctuaries. Instead, they are engaged in building roads, ditches and water plants, helping with economic development projects and bonding with the locals. Call it war through social work. Meanwhile, the key battle for Marjah remains inconclusive. The major offensive of the war - to capture the Taliban stronghold of Kandahar - has been delayed (again). U.S. and NATO casualties are soaring. Afghan President Hamid Karzai no longer believes U.S. forces have the will and staying power to see the war to its end; he has lost trust in America. He is looking to cut power-sharing deals with Taliban factions. </span>__U.S.<span style="color: black;"> power and prestige is waning not only in Afghanistan, but throughout the region. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Gen. McChrystal's frustration is a symptom of gross incompetence - his and, more important, that of the president. Mr. Obama and his team are incapable of winning the war. Having Gen. David H. Petraeus replace his former deputy as the commander in Afghanistan is an act of desperation. It is Mr. Obama's last stand, a desperate gambit to salvage the war effort by turning to the man who reversed the tide of defeat in Iraq. It is doomed to fail. Mr. Obama is changing the deck chairs on the Titanic - no matter what he does, however, the jihadist iceberg is about to sink the American juggernaut. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Afghanistan</span>__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">is not Iraq. It </span>__<span style="color: black;">is the graveyard of empires - a nation whose rugged terrain and collection of disparate warlords and tribes is ideally suited for guerrilla warfare. The vaunted Soviet Red Army was crushed in the 1980s. Imperial Britain was defeated</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> - not once, but </span>__<span style="color: black;">twice - during the 19th century</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. The reason: They got dragged into protracted wars of attrition. Eventually, the fierce, primitive mountains, caves and fighters of Afghanistan wore down much superior forces, slowly bleeding them to death. America is repeating the mistakes of the past. </span>__<span style="color: black;">The problem in Afghanistan is not one of personnel. It is one of strategy. Whether it is</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Gen. </span>__<span style="color: black;">McChrystal or</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Gen. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Petraeus overseeing the war is irrelevant. A deeply flawed strategy will fail no matter who is in charge.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Mr.</span>__<span style="color: black;"> Obama's decision to announce the start of a troop withdrawal in July 2011 has guaranteed the war cannot be won. The Taliban is simply waiting America out; their forces are escalating attacks, knowing that by killing more U.S. troops they will encourage an even quicker </span>pullout.__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> Moreover, the Afghan people have no incentive to cooperate with American and NATO forces because they know once the West is gone, they will be left in the lurch. The Taliban and al Qaeda are not going anywhere, while the Yanks are leaving; thus, Islamist retribution for collaboration with the infidels will be swift, brutal and merciless. Also, the decision not to deploy massive U.S. airpower and ground troops in neighboring Pakistan - especially the porous border areas along the North West Frontier Provinces - has assured the Taliban a safe haven from which to launch a sustained guerrilla campaign against the West. Until the Islamist insurgents are wiped out in Pakistan, the conflict in Afghanistan will grind on - senselessly, aimlessly, tragically. Mr. Biden has announced that "many troops" will be "leaving" Afghanistan in the summer of 2011. The administration already has, in essence, waved the white flag of surrender. </span>__<span style="color: black;">The U</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__<span style="color: black;">S</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>__<span style="color: black;">will leave Afghanistan in defeat - humiliated on the world stage as a paper tiger, a feckless and self-indulgent nation unable to carry the burden of global leadership</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. This will represent a historic victory for the forces of Islamic fascism; radical Islam will have brought the American giant to its knees - and in the very place, Afghanistan, where the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks were imagined and planned. </span>__<span style="color: black;">It will signify the death of American pre-eminence. </span>__**

Unfortunately, military leadership is key to deter the rise of hostile global rivals 
Holmes 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Kim R. Holmes , Ph.D., Vice President for Foreign and Defense Policy Studies and Director of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies at The Heritage Foundation (“The Perils of Prediction and Unpreparedness in Building the Future Force,” Heritage Foundation Lecture #1131, September 2nd, Available Online at http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/hl1131.cfm , Accessed 10-27-2009)</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">I think the underlying assumption here about the nature of our military superiority is illuminating. It is, put simply, that we can afford to let our superiority wane in areas where we are "far" ahead. But should we? I would ask that we think that assumption through. </span>__There is an inherent benefit in having wide margins of military superiority, if for no other reason than that a superiority gap reduces the incentive and ability of others to catch up__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and threaten us. </span>__China is not only working on asymmetric responses__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to us; </span>__it is challenging us in__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> such </span>__conventional areas__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> as submarines and ballistic missiles. Do we think that they will slow down in those areas or others just because we choose to allow the superiority gap to narrow ourselves? The Chinese and others will challenge us conventionally and unconventionally, and if we let one area of superiority atrophy, it could well be tomorrow's area of strategic surprise. The timeline for others to develop weapons and capabilities is shrinking, not only because we've already spent the high cost of developing the technologies, but also because of rapidly advancing technologies elsewhere. Proliferation, the Internet, and advanced computers give other nations like China a timeline advantage they didn't have before and thus introduce for planners a wide degree of uncertainty about predicting the future. China's push to challenge us in space by shooting down a communications satellite with an ICBM is a good example. All of our military forces are dependent on our advanced network of satellites in space, so China's rapid technological advancements in this realm are worrisome. </span>__Our superiority has a quality of dissuasion all of its own. It exists by its very presence__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—in the sense that America's singular ability to project power and hold on to territory is a factor all other nations must deal with. If we were to convince ourselves that this capability is no longer needed or affordable in general, or even in certain sub-areas, then we would signal to potential adversaries that they have a whole range of new options. </span>__It doesn't take a lot of imagination to realize how much more dangerous Iran and North Korea would be if they were convinced that we had lost confidence in our ability to project certain kinds of conventional military power__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> overseas. The same is true for Russia and China. Both would more likely accelerate their conventional weapons programs in areas where they perceive weaknesses in our future commitments. Now, I'm not suggesting for a moment that this is what the President and Secretary of Defense intend or want. Nor am I suggesting that this outcome is inevitable from decisions made in this year's budget. But I am suggesting that there are more chronic problems built into the way we fund and build the force than we currently recognize—and that we brush them under the rug at our peril. In the end, I firmly believe that </span>__U.S. military superiority is a form of deterrence. It is a strategic value in itself.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> And while it is true that our adversaries will always try to find ways to get around our superiority, we should not be making it easier for them by restraining modernization programs because we think we have "run up the score. </span>**

However, withdrawal allows the US to replenish its strategic reserve. 
Friedman 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College (George, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29, <span style="color: black;">http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan</span>) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is an anomaly in this strategy, however. Where the United States previously had devolved operational responsibility to allied groups, or simply hunkered down, this strategy tries to return to devolved responsibilities by first surging U.S. operations. The fourth phase actually increases U.S. operational responsibility in order to reduce it. </span>__From <span style="color: black;">the grand strategic point of view</span>, the United States needs to withdraw from Afghanistan__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, a landlocked country where U.S. forces are dependent on tortuous supply lines. Whatever </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Afghanistan’s vast mineral riches</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, mining them in the midst of war is not going to happen. More important, </span>__the U__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>__is overcommitted in the region and lacks a strategic reserve of ground forces.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Afghanistan ultimately is not strategically essential, and this is why the United States has not historically used its own forces there. Obama’s attempt to return to that track after first increasing U.S. forces to set the stage for the political settlement that will allow a U.S. withdrawal is hampered by the need to begin terminating the operation by 2011 (although there is no fixed termination date). It will be difficult to draw coalition partners into local structures when the foundation — U.S. protection — is withdrawing. Strengthening local forces by 2011 will be difficult. Moreover, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">the Taliban’s motivation</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to enter into talks is limited by the early withdrawal. At the same time, with no ground combat strategic reserve,</span> __the U__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates </span>__is vulnerable elsewhere in the world__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, and the longer the Afghan drawdown takes, the more vulnerable it becomes (hence the 2011 deadline in Obama’s war plan). In sum, this is the quandary inherent in the strategy: </span>__It is necessary to withdraw as early as possible__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, but early withdrawal undermines both coalition building and negotiations. The recruitment and use of indigenous Afghan forces must move extremely rapidly to hit the deadline (though officially on track quantitatively, there are serious questions about qualitative measures) — hence, the aggressive operations that have been mounted over recent months. But the correlation of forces is such that the United States probably will not be able to impose an acceptable political reality in the time frame available. Thus, Afghan President Hamid Karzai is said to be opening channels directly to the Taliban, while the </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pakistanis are increasing their presence. Where a vacuum is created, regardless of how much activity there is, someone will fill it. Therefore, the problem is to define how important Afghanistan is to American global strategy, bearing in mind that __the__ forces absorbed in Iraq and Afghanistan have left the United States vulnerable elsewhere in the world. The current strategy defines the Islamic world as the focus of all U.S. military attention. But the</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> world has rarely been so considerate as to wait until the United States is finished with one war before starting another. Though unknowns remain unknowable, a principle of warfare is to never commit all of your reserves in a battle — one should always maintain a reserve for the unexpected. Strategically, it is imperative that the United States begin to free up forces and re-establish its ground reserves. </span>**

A rejection of COIN creates a doctrinal shift towards selective engagement and allows sustainable U.S. presence globally 
<span style="color: black;">Gventer 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1, http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html) </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">An effort to conduct "counterinsurgency" in Afghanistan is</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> not just a costly business for still-unspecified strategic returns. It is </span>__<span style="color: black;">likely to</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> also </span>__<span style="color: black;">prolong the U.S. defense establishment's preoccupation with military-led nation-building in unfamiliar cultures </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">and perpetuate the deeply problematic assumption that chronic societal failure and social pathologies around the world are a form of warfare. This notion is built in part on what seems to be an oversimplified and glamorized—and thus dangerously misleading—pop history about the 'surge' in Iraq and the role it played in the still-unfolding outcomes there. </span>__<span style="color: black;">The opportunity for the new strategy in Afghanistan was to form the beginning of a new era of American restraint in its foreign policy</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">—</span>__<span style="color: black;">one based on</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> confidence in America's own values, protection of its borders, strong intelligence capabilities, and </span>__<span style="color: black;">selective engagement of a strong, credible U.S. military capable of applying overwhelming force. </span>__**

Third is fiscal collapse. 

Afghanistan will bankrupt the U.S. and collapse our financial leadership 
<span style="color: black;">Corn 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Ph.D. from the University of Paris and is a graduate of the U.S. Naval War College, currently on leave from the US State Department (Tony, “Toward a Kilcullen-Biden Plan? Bounding Counterinsurgency in Afghanistan,” Small Wars Journal, 10/21, http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2009/10/toward-a-kilcullenbiden-plan/) </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Just do the math - </span>__<span style="color: black;">with 63,000 troops on the ground, the cost for the U.S. of the Afghan War is already 6.7 billion dollars a month. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">With a hypothetical 40,000 troop increase, it would rise to more than 10 billion a month. For how long? Though it gives a time estimate for the possibility of failure (12 months), the report does not provide any timeline as to the possibility of actual success. </span>__<span style="color: black;">Most counterinsurgency experts appear to be in agreement that it will take more than two years to know whether the plan has a chance</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> of succeeding, </span>__<span style="color: black;">and at least an additional three years for the plan to actually succeed.</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> In short, </span>__<span style="color: black;">the recommended jump is a 500 billion dollar gamble that would come on top of the Iraq trillion dollar war</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">. In these conditions, any responsible Administration - be it Democrat or Republican - would be justified in taking a closer look. That “endless money forms the sinews of war” (Cicero) is a timeless truth. The question is to what extent does the U.S. have endless money at this particular juncture? Among the numerous analogies made between the wars in Afghanistan and Vietnam lately, the one that has yet to surface concerns the monetary dimension. The first casualty of the Vietnam War was not the Lyndon Johnson’s Great Society project – it was the mighty dollar itself. Though the dollar had been the undisputed currency of the world ever since WWII, the Vietnam folly eventually forced Nixon to decouple the dollar from gold. From 1971 until roughly 2001, the dollar’s new status did not seem to matter much, since the European Croesus could always be expected to bankroll the American Caesar.4 Not anymore. Today, Croesus no longer speaks German and French, but Mandarin and Arabic; and Croesus is increasingly vocal in its call to put an end to the status of the dollar as the world’s reserve currency. Ironically, the only people on earth who don’t seem to realize the incredible advantage derived by America from the dollar’s status are the American people themselves. In last instance, </span>__<span style="color: black;">America’s military “command of the commons” rests on America’s monetary command of the common currency</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">.5 The fact that, five years from now, the implementation of the McChrystal plan could actually lead to “victory” at the theater-strategic level is a distinct possibility. The fact that, five years from now as well, the dollar would no longer be the world’s reserve currency is a quasi-certainty. The end of America as a monetary superpower would spell the end of America as a superpower tout court – the ultimate defeat at the national-strategic level. Bottom line - on the one hand, </span>__<span style="color: black;">the U.S. does not have 500 billion dollars to waste in an open-ended escalation</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> in one of the many ungoverned sandboxes of the world. On the other hand, an incremental (“middle way”) strategy would fail to create the psychological effect required in both the West and Afghanistan at this point. That said, a temporary 40,000 surge remains a realistic option, but only so long as the White House strategy rests on two pillars “bounding” the counterinsurgency campaign - on the one hand, a convocation of a new loya jirga as advocated by counterinsurgency expert David Kilcullen - on the other, a regional diplomatic settlement as advocated by Vice-President Joe Biden. </span>**

US economic leadership prevents global wars 
**<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mead 4</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, “America's sticky power,” Foreign Policy, March 2004) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. military force and cultural appeal have kept the United States at the top of the global order. But the hegemon cannot live on gunsand Hollywood alone. </span><span class="CardsFont12ptChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S. economic </span></span>__policies and__ <span class="CardsFont12ptChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">institutions act as "sticky power," </span></span>__attracting other countries to the U.S. system and then trapping them in it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="CardsFont12ptChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sticky power can help </span></span>__stabilize Iraq, bring rule of law to Russia, and__ <span class="CardsFont12ptChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">prevent armed conflict between the U</span></span>__nited__ <span class="CardsFont12ptChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span></span>__tates__ <span class="CardsFont12ptChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">and China</span></span>__.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Since its earliest years, the United States has behaved as a global power. Not always capable of dispatching great fleets and mighty armies to every corner of the planet, the United States has nonethelessinvariably kept one eye on the evolution of the global system, and the U.S. military has long served internationally. The United States has not always boasted the world's largest or most influential economy, but the country has always regarded trade in global terms, generally nudging the world toward economic integration. U.S. ideological impulses have also been global. The poet Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote of the first shot fired in the American Revolution as "the shot heard 'round the world," and Americans have always thought that their religious and political values should prevail around the globe. Historically, security threats and trade interests compelled Americans to think globally. The British sailed across the Atlantic to burn Washington, D.C.; the Japanese flew from carriers in the Pacific to bomb Pearl Harbor. Trade with Asia and Europe, as well as within the Western Hemisphere, has always been vital to U.S. prosperity. U.S. President Thomas Jefferson sent the Navy to the Mediterranean to fight against the Barbary pirates to safeguard U.S. trade in 1801. Commodore Matthew Perry opened up Japan in the 1850s partly to assure decent treatment for survivors of sunken U.S. whaling ships that washed up on Japanese shores. And the last shots in the U.S. Civil War were fired from a Confederate commerce raider attacking Union shipping in the remote waters of the Arctic Ocean. The rise of the United States to superpower status followed from this global outlook. In the 20th century, as the British system of empire and commerce weakened and fell, U.S. foreign-policymakers faced three possible choices: prop up the British Empire, ignore the problem and let the rest of the world go about its business, or replace Britain and take on the dirty job of enforcing a world order. Between the onset of World War I and the beginning of the Cold War, the United States tried all three, ultimately taking Britain's place as the gyroscope of world order. However, the Americans were replacing the British at a moment whenthe rules of the game were changing forever. </span>__The U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span> __could not become just another empire of great power playing the old games of dominance with rivals and allies. Such competition led to war, and war between great powers was no longer an acceptable part of the international system.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> No, the United States was going to have to attempt something that no other nation had ever accomplished, something that many theorists of international relations would swear was impossible. </span>__The U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>__needed to build a system that could end thousands of years of great power conflicts__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, constructing a framework of power that would bring enduring peace to the whole world--repeating globally what ancient Egypt, China, and Rome had each accomplished on a regional basis. To complicate the task a bit more, the new hegemon would not be able to use some of the methods available to the Romans and others. Reducing the world's countries and civilizations to tributary provinces was beyond any military power the United States could or would bring to bear. The United States would have to develop a new way for sovereign states to coexist in a world of weapons of mass destruction and of prickly rivalries among religions, races, cultures, and states. In his 2002 book, The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone, Harvard University political scientist Joseph S. Nye Jr. discusses the varieties of power that the United States can deploy as it builds its world order. Nye focuses on two types of power: hard and soft. In his analysis, hard power is military or economic force that coerces others to follow a particular courseof action. By contrast, soft power--cultural power, the power of example, the power of ideas and ideals--works more subtly; it makes others want what you want. Soft power upholds the U.S. world order because it influences others to like the U.S. system and support it of their own free will [see sidebar on page 51]. Nye's insights on soft power have attracted significant attention and will continue to have an important role in U.S. policy debates. </span>**

Hegemony de-escalates all conflict and solves great power wars 
Thayer 6 **<span style="font-size: 7pt;">– Bradley A. Thayer, November/December, 2006 “In Defense of Primacy,” NATIONAL INTEREST Issue 86 </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">THROUGHOUT HISTORY,</span> __peace and stability have been great benefits of an era where there was a dominant power__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">--Rome, Britain or the United States today. Scholars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics.</span> __Everything we think of when we consider the current international order--free trade__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, a robust monetary regime, increasing </span>__respect for human rights, growing democratization--is directly linked to U.S. power.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Retrenchment proponents seem to think that the current system can be maintained without the current amount of U.S. power behind it. In that they are dead wrong and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons: Appalling things happen when international orders collapse. The Dark Ages followed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. Without U.S. power, the liberal order created by the United States will end just as assuredly. As country and western great Ral Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, American primacy within the international system causes many positive outcomes for Washington and the world. The first has been a more peaceful world. During the Cold War, U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today, American primacy helps keep a number of complicated relationships aligned--between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war. </span>__Wars still occur__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur, </span>__but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> war's worst form: </span>__great power wars__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Second, American power gives the United States the ability to spread democracy and other elements of its ideology of liberalism: Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.( n3) So, spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy. In addition, once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced. This is not because democracies do not have clashing interests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. leadership. And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Administration for attempting to spread democracy in the Middle East, labeling such aft effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's critics to explain why :democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or stabilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Perhaps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Afghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threatened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Washington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western-style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Kuwait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. Third, along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the global economy. With its allies, the United States has labored to create an economically liberal worldwide network characterized by free trade and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mobility of capital and labor markets. The economic stability and prosperity that stems from this economic order is a global public good from which all states benefit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well-being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable. Economic spin-offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his career confident in the socialist ideology of post-independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recognizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globalization, which are facilitated through American primacy.( n4) As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. Fourth and finally, the United States, in seeking primacy, has been willing to use its power not only to advance its interests but to promote the welfare of people all over the globe. </span>__The United States is the earth's leading source of positive externalities for the world__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The U.S. military has participated in over fifty operations since the end of the Cold War--and most of those missions have been humanitarian in nature. Indeed, the U.S. military is the earth's "911 force"--it serves, de facto, as the world's police, the global paramedic and the planet's fire department. Whenever there is a natural disaster, earthquake, flood, drought, volcanic eruption, typhoon or tsunami, the United States assists the countries in need. On the day after Christmas in 2004, a tremendous earthquake and tsunami occurred in the Indian Ocean near Sumatra, killing some 300,000 people. The United States was the first to respond with aid. Washington followed up with a large contribution of aid and deployed the U.S. military to South and Southeast Asia for many months to help with the aftermath of the disaster. About 20,000 U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines responded by providing water, food, medical aid, disease treatment and prevention as well as forensic assistance to help identify the bodies of those killed. Only the U.S. military could have accomplished this Herculean effort. </span>__No other force possesses the communications capabilities or global logistical reach of the U.S. military__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. In fact, UN peacekeeping operations depend on the United States to supply UN forces. </span>__American generosity has done more to help the United States fight the War on Terror than almost any other measure__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Before the tsunami, 80 percent of Indonesian public opinion was opposed to the United States; after it, 80 percent had a favorable opinion of America. Two years after the disaster, and in poll after poll, Indonesians still have overwhelmingly positive views of the United States. In October 2005, an enormous earthquake struck Kashmir, killing about 74 000 people and leaving three million homeless. The U.S. military responded immediately, diverting helicopters fighting the War on Terror in nearby Afghanistan to bring relief as soon as possible To help those in need, the United States also provided financial aid to Pakistan; and, as one might expect from those witnessing the munificence of the United States, it left a lasting impression about America. For the first time since 9/11, polls of Pakistani opinion have found that more people are favorable toward the United States than unfavorable, while support for Al-Qaeda dropped to its lowest level. Whether in Indonesia or Kashmir, the money was well-spent because it helped people in the wake of disasters, but it also had a real impact on the War on Terror. When people in the Muslim world witness the U.S. military conducting a humanitarian mission, there is a clearly positive impact on Muslim opinion of the United States. </span>__As the War on Terror is a war of ideas and opinion as much as military action, for the United States humanitarian missions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>**

The alternative to U.S. hegemony is apolarity and global nuclear wars. 
Ferguson 4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Niall Ferguson, July/August 2004 “A World Without Power,” FOREIGN POLICY Issue 143 </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">So what is left? </span>__Waning empires. Religious revivals. Incipient anarchy__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. A coming retreat into fortified cities. These </span>__are the Dark Age experiences that a world without a hyperpower might quickly find itself reliving__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The trouble is, of course, that this Dark Age would be an altogether more dangerous one than the Dark Age of the ninth century. For the world is much more populous-roughly 20 times more--so friction between the world's disparate "tribes" is bound to be more frequent. Technology has transformed production; now human societies depend not merely on freshwater and the harvest but also on supplies of fossil fuels that are known to be finite. Technology has upgraded destruction, too, so it is now possible not just to sack a city but to obliterate it. For more than two decades, globalization--the integration of world markets for commodities, labor, and capital--has raised living standards throughout the world, except where countries have shut themselves off from the process through tyranny or civil war. The reversal of globalization--which a new Dark Age would produce--would certainly lead to economic stagnation and even depression. As the United States sought to protect itself after a second September 11 devastates, say, Houston or Chicago, it would inevitably become a less open society, less hospitable for foreigners seeking to work, visit, or do business. Meanwhile, as Europe's Muslim enclaves grew, Islamist extremists' infiltration of the EU would become irreversible, increasing trans-Atlantic tensions over the Middle East to the breaking point. An economic meltdown in China would plunge the Communist system into crisis, unleashing the centrifugal forces that undermined previous Chinese empires. Western investors would lose out and conclude that lower returns at home are preferable to the risks of default abroad. The worst effects of the new Dark Age would be felt on the edges of the waning great powers. The wealthiest ports of the global economy--from New York to Rotterdam to Shanghai--would become the targets of plunderers and pirates. With ease, terrorists could disrupt the freedom of the seas, targeting oil tankers, aircraft carriers, and cruise liners, while Western nations frantically concentrated on making their airports secure. Meanwhile, limited </span>__nuclear wars could devastate numerous regions,__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> beginning in the Korean peninsula and Kashmir, perhaps ending catastrophically in the Middle East. In Latin America, wretchedly poor citizens would seek solace in Evangelical Christianity imported by U.S. religious orders. In Africa, the great plagues of aids and malaria would continue their deadly work. The few remaining solvent airlines would simply suspend services to many cities in these continents; who would wish to leave their privately guarded safe havens to go there? For all these reasons, the prospect of an apolar world should frighten us today a great deal more than it frightened the heirs of Charlemagne.</span> __If the United States retreats__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> from global hegemony--its fragile self-image dented by minor setbacks on the imperial frontier--</span>__its critics at home and abroad must not pretend that they are ushering in a new era of multipolar harmony, or even a return to the good old balance of power__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Be careful what you wish for. </span>__The alternative__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">to unipolarity would not be multipolarity at all. It</span> __would be apolarity--a global vacuum of power.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> And far more dangerous forces than rival great powers would benefit from such a not-so-new world disorder. </span>**

A multipolar world makes great power wars inevitable 
Wohlforth 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – William Wohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College) 2009 “ Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War” Project Muse </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The upshot is a near scholarly consensus that unpolarity’s consequences for great power conflict are indeterminate and that a power shift resulting in a return to bipolarity or multipolarity will not raise the specter of great power war. This article questions the consensus on two counts. First, I show that it depends crucially on a dubious assumption about human motivation. Prominent </span>__theories of war are based on the assumption that people are mainly motivated by the instrumental pursuit of tangible ends such as physical security and material prosperity__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. This is why such theories seem irrelevant to interactions among great powers in an international environment that diminishes the utility of war for the pursuit of such ends. Yet we know that people are motivated by a great many noninstrumental motives, not least by concerns regarding their social status. 3 As John Harsanyi noted, “Apart from economic payoffs, </span>__social status__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (social rank) </span>__seems to be the most important incentive and motivating force of social behavior__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”4</span> __This proposition rests on__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> much </span>__firm__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">er </span>__scientific ground__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> now than when Harsanyi expressed it a generation ago, as cumulating research shows that</span> __humans appear to be hardwired for sensitivity to status and that relative standing is a powerful and independent motivator of behavior__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.5 [End Page 29] Second, I question the dominant view that status quo evaluations are relatively independent of the distribution of capabilities. If the status of states depends in some measure on their relative capabilities, and if states derive utility from status, then different distributions of capabilities may affect levels of satisfaction, just as different income distributions may affect levels of status competition in domestic settings. 6 Building on research in psychology and sociology, I argue that even capabilities distributions among major powers foster ambiguous status hierarchies, which generate more dissatisfaction and clashes over the status quo. And the more stratified the distribution of capabilities, the less likely such status competition is. </span>__Unipolarity__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> thus </span>__generates far fewer incentives than either bipolarity or multipolarity for direct great power positional competition over status.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Elites in the other major powers continue to prefer higher status, but in a unipolar system they face comparatively weak incentives to translate that preference into costly action. And the absence of such incentives matters because social status is a positional good—something whose value depends on how much one has in relation to others.7 “If everyone has high status,” Randall Schweller notes, “no one does.”8 While one actor might increase its status, all cannot simultaneously do so. High status is thus inherently scarce, and competitions for status tend to be zero sum.9 </span>**

Even if the alternative were better, history proves that the transition away will cause lashout 
Khanna 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Director of the Global Governance Initiative at the New America Foundation (Parag, The second world: how emerging powers are redefining global competition in the twenty-first century, p. 337-338) </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Even this scenario is optimistic, for </span>__superpowers are by definition willing to encroach on the turf of others__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—changing the world map in the process. Much as in geology, such tectonic shifts always result in earthquakes, particularly as rising powers tread on the entrenched position of the reigning hegemon.56 The sole exception was the twentieth century Anglo-American transition in which Great Britain and the United States were allies and shared a common culture—and even that took two world wars to complete.57 </span>__As the relative levels of power of the three superpowers draw closer, the temptation of the number-two to preemptively knock out the king on the hill grows, as does the lead power’s incentive to preventatively attack__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and weaken </span>__its ascending rival before being eclipsed__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.58 David Hume wrote, “It is not a great disproportion between ourselves and others which produces envy, but on the contrary, a proximity.”59 While the density of contacts among the three superpowers makes the creation of a society of states more possible than ever—all the foreign ministers have one anothers’ mobile phone numbers—the deep differences in interests among the three make forging a “culture of peace” more challenging than ever.60 China seas, hyperterrorism with nuclear weapons, an attack in the Gulf of Aden or the Straits of Malacca. </span>__The uncertain alignments of lesser but still substantial powers such as Russia, Japan, and India could also cause escalation__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Furthermore, America’s foreign lenders could pull the plug to undermine its grand strategy, sparking economic turmoil, political acrimony, and military tension. War brings profit to the military-industrial complex and is always supported by the large patriotic camps on all sides. Yet the notion of a Sino-U.S. rivalry to lead the world is also premature and simplistic, for in the event of their conflict, Europe would be the winner, as capital would flee to its sanctuaries. These great tensions are being played out in the world today, as each superpower strives to attain the most advantageous position for itself, while none are powerful enough to dictate the system by itself. Global stability thus hangs between the bookends Raymond Aron identified as “peace by law” and “peace by empire,” the former toothless and the latter prone to excess.61 Historically, successive iterations of balance of power and collective security doctrines have evolved from justifying war for strategic advantage into building systems to avoid it, with the post-Napoleonic “Concert of Europe” as the first of the modern era.62 Because it followed rules, it was itself something of a societal system.* Even where these attempts at creating a stable world order have failed—including the League of Nations after World War I—systemic learning takes place in which states (particularly democracies) internalize the lessons of the past into their institutions to prevent history from repeating itself.63 Toynbee too viewed history as progressive rather than purely cyclical, a wheel that not only turns around and around but also moves forward such that Civilization (with a big C) could become civilized.64 But did he “give too much credit to time’s arrows and not enough to time’s cycle”?65 Empires and superpowers usually promise peace but bring wars.66 The time to recognize the current revolutionary situation is now—before the next world war.67 </span>**

America will cling to a false unipolar reality post-transition 
Calleo 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – David P. Calleo (University Professor at The Johns Hopkins University and Dean Acheson Professor at its Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS)) 2009 “Follies of Power: America’s Unipolar Fantasy” p. 4-5 </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It is tempting to believe that America’s recent misadventures will discredit and suppress our hegemonic longings and that, following the presidential election of 2008, a new administration will abandon them. But so long as our identity as a nation is intimately bound up with seeing ourselves as the world’s most powerful country, at the heart of a global system, </span>__hegemony is likely to remain the recurring obsession of our official imagination,__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the id´ee fixe of our foreign policy. </span>__America’s hegemonic ambitions have, after all, suffered severe setbacks before.__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Less than half a century has passed since </span>__the “lesson of Vietnam__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.” But that lesson </span>__faded without forcing us to abandon the old fantasies of omnipotence. The fantasies merely went into remission__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, until the fall of the Soviet Union provided an irresistible occasion for their return. Arguably, in its collapse, the Soviet Union proved to be a greater danger to America’s own equilibrium than in its heyday. Dysfunctional imaginations are scarcely a rarity – among individuals or among nations. “Reality” is never a clear picture that imposes itself from without. Imaginations need to collaborate. They synthesize old and new images, concepts, and ideas and fuse language with emotions – all according to the inner grammar of our minds. These synthetic constructions become our reality, our way of depicting the world in which we live. Inevitably, our imaginations present us with only a partial picture. As Walter Lippmann once put it, our imaginations create a “pseudo-environment between ourselves and the world.”2 Every individual, therefore, has his own particular vision of reality, and every nation tends to arrive at a favored collective view that differs from the favored view of other nations. When powerful and interdependent nations hold visions of the world severely at odds with one another, the world grows dangerous. </span>**




=**Negative**= 


**See Iowa City West Jeffrey Ding & David Huang for most shells.**

==**Kritiks**== 

===**Foucault IR**=== 


A. (Afghanistan Link) The affirmative pejoratizes the Afghani identity – discourses of danger create dichotomies in the name of security – this is the root cause of imperialism and turns the case
__Crowe 2k7__ - **member of the York Centre for International and Security Studies (L.A. “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security -Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’" <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]]</span>)**
**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">__Several__ __<span style="background: #00ffff;">problematic elements repeatedly appear... </span>____the leitmotiv__ __<span style="background: #00ffff;">for universal safety</span>__</span>**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">B.This discourse <span style="text-decoration: none;">requires the elimination of all threats to the security of the population through genocide as death of the abnormal other is seen as intimately linked to the health of the race—this culminates in extinction </span></span>
**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">Kasper </span>**__Hoffmann__ **, <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8pt;">International Development Studies at Roskilde University, May 20</span>**__07__ **, <span style="color: #000000;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Militarised Bodies and Spirits of Resistance, </span><span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://hdl.handle.net/1800/2766]]</span></span>**   
**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-right: 0.05in;">In modern forms of government, ...</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">of modern processes of government.</span>__


**<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> C. The alternative is to vote negative—this allows us to challenge violent assumptions and free ourselves from oppressive structures </span>__</span>**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: transparent; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> Prozorov, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Collegium Research Fellow, Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies, U Helsinki </span></span>**2k7**. (Sergei Foucault, Freedom and Sovereignty, p . 141-145)** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;"> As both Foucault and Lacan... </span> <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">of liberation from the diagram.</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> Ethics K </span>=== 
=====**1NC Shell**===== 

The United States caused the destruction in the Middle East, including the eminent threat of genocide upon departure – we have an ethical responsibility to stay and fix the mess we've made – the failure to inject ethics into the discussion of the War on Terror is what actually allows the disposability of populations, not the political metaphors isolated in the 1AC 
Steorts, 2007 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jason Lee. Philosophy and … </span>__you break something, you fix it.__**

The affirmative's cut and run strategy is unethical – framing approaches to understanding our relationship with the Middle East are irrelevant because the invasion has already happened – we have to stay and finish what we've started 
Feldman, 2006 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Noah. Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. //What We Owe Iraq: War and the Ethics of Nation Building.// Princeton University Press. Princeton, NJ. pg. 40-41] </span>**
**__The case of Afghanistan is__ __… <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">goal of actually being ethical.</span>__**

The role of the ballot is to endorse the best ethical relationship between the individual and the War on Terrorism's nation-building efforts 
Feldman, 2006 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Noah. Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. //What We Owe Iraq: War and the Ethics of Nation Building.// Princeton University Press. Princeton, NJ. pg. 16-17] </span>**
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The aim</span>__<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> of this book</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">… </span>of an argument in ethics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**


=====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.033em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**2NC Stuff**</span>===== 

Responsibility always comes first – only by understanding responsibility can we determine the trajectory of ontological and philosophical inquiry * 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, University of North Carolina, </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard A. Cohen, the Isaac Swift Distinguished Professor of Judaic Studies at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, pg. 5 “Ethics, Exegesis, and Philosophy: Interpretation after Levinas,” Cambridge University Press) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rather, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">the human emerges … </span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">knowledge and a reason for living.</span>__


**ALSO, NOTE – We can still embrace the affirmative's ethic of vulnerability while still refusing to take part in the unethical violation of our promise to the Middle East – what is suspect here is that the affirmative pulls out of countries where we have made promises, tainting the whole of the affirmative project**

<span class="Heading2Char">Edkins 99</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Jenny, lecturer in the Department of International Politics at the University of Wales, Aberystwyth, Poststructuralism and International Relations: Bringing the Political Back In, p. 141) </span>
__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">To enact a repoliticization requires an </span>**…**__ __<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">designates fidelity to this crack</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">."90 </span>



**Finally, solves the affirmative – demands for just action combat the state's logic of domination**

<span class="Heading2Char">Campbell 99</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (David, Prof of Int’l Politics @ Univ. of Newcastle, Moral Spaces, p. 45) </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In that essay, subsequent to … </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the decision to combat domination.</span>__**


**<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Turns the case – totalitarianism and fascism are inevitable if we do not demand transcendental ethics </span>**

**<span style="color: #231f20;">Simmons, 99 </span>**
<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 10.0pt;">[William Paul. “The Third.” Philosophy and Social Criticism. 25:6. http://www.scribd.com/doc/16663846/William-Paul-Simmons-Levinas-Theoretical-Move-From-anArchical-Ethics-to-the-Realm-of-Justice-and-Politics] </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #231f20; font-size: 12pt;">Ethics must temper the political … </span><span style="color: #231f20;">must remain the ﬁrst philosophy.</span>__<span style="color: #231f20;">58 </span>
**Demanding ethical responses to the war on terror has real implications on the implementation of foreign policy**
**Feldman, 2006**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Noah. Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. //What We Owe Iraq: War and the Ethics of Nation Building.// Princeton University Press. Princeton, NJ. pg. 37-38] </span>
__The ethical problem of whether … well be allowed to prevail.__





==**Disadvantages**== 




===**Saudi Relations DA**=== 






**A. Saudi-U.S. Relations are stabilizing—Obama has generated hopes for Middle East peace**

**Michelson 9**(Heike, April 30, Einaudi Center for World Affair Studies@Cornell University, “HRH Prince Turki Al-Faisal sees new hope in Saudi-American relations”, http://www.einaudi.cornell.edu/news/headlines.asp?id=2088)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">HRH Prince Turki </span>**__Al-Faisal...__** <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">We’re holding our breath and waiting.”</span>

**B. Withdrawing from Iraq kills US-Saudi relations and causes Shiite-Sunni conflict**

**Byman 7**(Daniel, Director of Security Studies Program@Georgetown U, February 8, “Saudi Arabia's own Iraq nightmare”. http://www.salon.com/news/opinion/feature/2007/02/08/saudis)

**__Saudi Arabia is watching with fear...__** <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Iran in the two neighbors' bloody struggle.</span>



**C. U.S.-Saudi relations key to solve multiple scenarios Middle East instability**
**Brzezinski 9**(Zbigniew, Professor of American Policy@John Hopkins University, May 8, “U.S.-Saudi Relations in a World Without Equilibrium Conference Transcripts -- Session 1 The Honorable Zbigniew Brzezinski”, http://www.saudi-us-relations.org/articles/2009/ioi/090508-ussa-brzezinski.html) <span style="font-size: 8pt;">I think we need to work together... </span> **__for peace in the Middle East__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**D. Middle East instability causes nuclear war Steinbach 2**(John, DC Iraq Coalition, March, “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: a Threat to Peace”, http://globalresearch.ca/articles/STE203A.html) <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, </span>**__the existence of__ __an...__ __could trigger a world conflagration__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">."</span>



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> ROK Relations DA </span>=== 
The ROK alliance is strong – Joint Vision Statement, Obama and Lee relationship, and delay of OPCON transfer prove 

**Campbell 9/16/10 –** Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs (Kurt, “The Security Situation on the Korean Peninsula,” Statement Before the Senate Armed Services Committee, [[http://www.state.gov/p/eap/rls/rm/2010/09/147210.htm]]) 
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">We are working closely with … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">security of the Korean Peninsula. </span>



**Withdrawal will crush U.S.-South Korean relations and causes more North Korea provocations**
**Dujarric, 04**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Visiting Scholar at the Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry (7/12/04, International Herald Tribune, “Japan's Security Needs U.S. Troops in S. Korea,” [[http://www.rieti.go.jp/en/papers/contribution/dujarric/02.html]], JMP)</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Though it is possible that these moves will be reversed, as things change right now the United States is poised to permanently downgrade its presence on the Korean Peninsula. </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">If these changes do take place, they will have a dramatic impact on Japan. </span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The Seoul-Washington **military relationship** … **credibility of the American commitment**</span>**.**__
__The U.S. ability to influence South Korea will decline while the South Korean capacity to make itself heard in Washington will also diminish. American deterrence will also decline.__
__A North Korean attack is … forces will be less potent.__



**Independently permanently stationing ground troops uniquely signals U.S. commitment and boosts credibility of the nuclear umbrella**
**Payne, et. al, 10** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">– Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,” </span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]], JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Forward Deployments </span>
__The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">forward presence of U.S. military … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">covered by the nuclear umbrella. </span>

**Prevents South Korean prolif**
**Hughes, 2007**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher W., PhD University of Sheffield, 1997, Reader/Associate Professor, University of Warwick. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan,” January, Asia Policy No 3, http://www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf] </span>

<span class="Underline">South Korea’s history of considering … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the reaffirmation of U.S. security guarantees.54 </span>


**Escalates to global nuclear war**
**Cirincione, 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blocks would fall quickest … </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">use of a nuclear weapon</span> since__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__45__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> ROK Deterrence DA </span>=== 
The U.S. is taking a tough line to deter future North Korean aggression 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Reuters, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/24/10, Jeff Mason, “Obama Tells Military: Prepare for North Korea Aggression,” </span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/05/24-6]], JMP) </span></span>


<span class="Underline">**Withdrawal will wreck U.S. influence** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Kang & Cha</span>, 0<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, AND **associate professor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service (May/June 2003, David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,” [[http://www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf]], JMP)** </span></span>

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">But </span></span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">hasty withdrawal of U.S. forces</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">of its alliance are not. </span>**



Will also cause Japan to nuclearize and embolden China against Taiwan 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Dao</span>, 0<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">3</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html]], JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deciding if now is the … </span>__they see in the region."__**


China-Taiwan war causes extinction. 
The Strait Times, 2000 
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis] </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The high-intensity scenario postulates</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">puts sovereignty above everything else.</span>**


Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Halloran</span> , 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">9</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html] </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">That </span>__anxiety has reinvigorated a debate …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">under the US nuclear umbrella. </span>**

The impact is nuclear war 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Cimbala</span> , 200<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">8</span>
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld] </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If the possibility existed of a … </span>__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">marginalization of major <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">interstate warfare</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**



Also, regional states’ confidence in … in India-Pakistan and Korea 
Goh, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, JMP) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Thus, the key determinants of … </span>**__illustrative of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">potential regional disruptions</span>.__

This causes great power nuclear conflict 
Gray, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http://www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">6. Interstate War, Down but Far from Out </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Logically, the reverse side of … war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23 </span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]