Affirmative

__**Human Terrain System:**__



**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Plan text: The United States federal government should remove the human terrain system from Afghanistan and Iraq.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention: Some stuff is going down in the status quo</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Human Terrain Teams are playing a bigger role in the Middle East- part of the Military’s “smart surge”</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Denselow 10**- James, writer for The Guardian; “Scholar Soldiers in Afghanistan on Dangerous Terrain” June 11, 2010; Lexis ACM</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The competency and capability…………………………….. put social scientists at the heart of Afghanistan and Iraq.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Military will seek to expand HTS if it is not rejected</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Axe 10** (David Axe freelance writer based in Columbia, S.C., “Social Scientists Under Fire” Fed 17 2010 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=32c471e98bae43f5a2d51e0cdf1f6945&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.miller-mccune.com%2fculture-society%2fsocial-scientists-under-fire-8623%2f|http://www.miller-mccune.com/culture-society/social-scientists-under-fire-8623/]]</span> JDEF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> If Gukeisen’s troops are representative, then maybe…………………………… Pacific Command, the Africa Command and the Latin America-focused Southern Command.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 2: Avatar</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The Human terrain system is the new phoenix program implemented in Vietnam it produces information that is used for “neutralization” of the enemy it risks the safety of innocent civilians</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Gonzalez 09** (Roberto J. Gonzalez is an associate professor of anthropology at San Jose State University. American Counterinsurgency: Human Science and the Human Terrain 2009 pg 4-7 JDEF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> If history is any guide, HTS was created primarily as a tool for espionage……………………….. and consequently, the safety of Iraqis and Afghans who have provided information to team members</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The information the human terrain system constructs is not benign, rather it is used as weapon for targeting</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Gonzalez 09** (Roberto J. Gonzalez is an associate professor of anthropology at San Jose State University. American Counterinsurgency: Human Science and the Human Terrain 2009 pg 21-22 JDEF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> However, in its 2008 Global War on Terror Amendment the……………………………………… CIA agents using their data to capture or kill suspects (see Chapter 3).</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The third critique of Minerva is more overtly political. It warns that military funding will undercut the kind of critical thinking many………………….. human subjects and of our vocation as interlocutors of the other.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Due to the short-term nature of HTS it encourages targeting rather than focusing on the well being of the occupied country</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Gonzalez 09** (Roberto J. Gonzalez is an associate professor of anthropology at San Jose State University. American Counterinsurgency: Human Science and the Human Terrain 2009 pg 129-130 JDEF) *Quotations come from Matthew L. Schehl Officer of a HTT</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> IN a similar vein, University of Montana student and Iraq War veteran Matthew……………………………………….. once again what lessons history might hold for the current situation</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Exploiting culture doesn’t lead to a softer war rather the war is more violent because the occupied culture becomes objectified</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Davis 10** (Rochelle Davis, an editor of this magazine, is assistant professor of anthropology in the Center for Contemporary Arab Studies in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. April 19, 2010. “Culture as a Weapon System”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=32c471e98bae43f5a2d51e0cdf1f6945&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.merip.org%2fmer%2fmer255%2fdavis.html|http://www.merip.org/mer/mer255/davis.html]]</span> JDEF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> But even if the military’s new vision of culture creates servicemen and women who………………………… ………………envision invasions and occupations as justified, sustainable and ethical</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Militarized anthropology will fail to investigate the problems of the war rather give false justifications causing systemic violence</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Forte 10**, professor of anthropology in Montreal, Canada. PHD in anthropology (Maximilian Forte 20 May 2010 “Imperial Instruction: The Human Terrain System’s Academic Trainers, Part 1” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=32c471e98bae43f5a2d51e0cdf1f6945&URL=http%3a%2f%2fzeroanthropology.net%2fabout-the-bloggers%2fmax-forte%2fJDEF|http://zeroanthropology.net/about-the-bloggers/max-forte/JDEF]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Moos and Dean both take the “clash of civilizations” approach…………………………… it is an argument that can only win over those who have already been won over to war.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">This militarized attempt to know the other leads to the position of the bomber where we exterminate difference, this is a precondition to nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Chow 06** PHD Professor in the Comparative Literature Program at the University of California, Irvine , (Rey The Age of the World Target, p. 40-1, JDEF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Modest and apparently innocuous agendas of act gathering and documentations,…….. the absence of a definable object” – and by “the problem of the vanishing object</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 3: Ethics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">HTT’s are an attempt to colonize anthropology- this creates ethical dilemmas</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Sluka 10**- Jefferey A.; Anthropologist; “Curiouser and curiouser: Montgomery McFate’s strange interpretation of the relationship between anthropology and counterinsurgency” Political & Legal Anthropology Review p. 99-115; May 7, 2010; Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Even more controversially, in 2006, the US Army initiated……………………….. risk of harm to both researchers and research participants</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Anthropology used in the military is an unethical tool of war because it engenders oppression</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Peacock 08 (James L. Peacock is a Kenan Distinguished Professor of Anthropology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. “Reflections on Collaboration, Ethnographic and Applied” pg 173 Collaborative Anthropologies 2008 Project Muse JDEF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Anthropology and anthropologists bring incredible………………… social needs leads us toward it.</span>
== == 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The military has codified anthropology as a weapon and endangers others, Construing the choice been this and national security is false. It is a question of whether the program is ethical or not.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Gusterson 10** (Hugh Gusterson, professor of anthropology and sociology at George Mason University. “Do professional ethics matter in war?” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, 04 March 2010<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=32c471e98bae43f5a2d51e0cdf1f6945&URL=http%3a%2f%2fzeroanthropology.net%2f2010%2f03%2f09%2fdo-professional-ethics-matter-in-war-hugh-gusterson%2f|http://zeroanthropology.net/2010/03/09/do-professional-ethics-matter-in-war-hugh-gusterson/]]</span> JDEF)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Anthropologists condemn the Human Terrain project because…………………. we had to destroy the village in order to save the village.” We can do better.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Even in war we have to have an ethical limit to the way violence is used</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Elshtain 01** -Ph.D. from Brandeis University Professor of Social and Political Ethics - (Jean Bethke Elshtain November 15, 2001 “How to Fight a Just War” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=32c471e98bae43f5a2d51e0cdf1f6945&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.dlc.org%2fndol_ci.cfm%3fkaid%3d124%26subid%3d307%26contentid%3d3918|http://www.dlc.org/ndol_ci.cfm?kaid=124&subid=307&contentid=3918]]</span> JDEF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Yet even as just war permits limited ………….. of the just warrior -- and a nation's honor</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Contention 4: Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">HTS is either going to be rejected through the aff or raised up in the military hierarchy in the future</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Axe 10** (David Axe freelance writer based in Columbia, S.C., “Social Scientists Under Fire” Fed 17 2010 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=32c471e98bae43f5a2d51e0cdf1f6945&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.miller-mccune.com%2fculture-society%2fsocial-scientists-under-fire-8623%2f|http://www.miller-mccune.com/culture-society/social-scientists-under-fire-8623/]]</span> JDEF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The military has a name for the mix of needs</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> politically neutral social sciences …………………..and its ability to adapt to smart, ruthless enemies.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">We need to challenge the HTS otherwise it will continue in military strategy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Stanton 10** (John Stanton Virginia-based writer specializing in national security and political matters “The New Face of the Human Terrain System:” 23 January 2010 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=32c471e98bae43f5a2d51e0cdf1f6945&URL=http%3a%2f%2fcryptome.org%2f0001%2fhts-future.htm|http://cryptome.org/0001/hts-future.htm]]</span> JDEF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Before getting into The Future, other ………….revival of counterinsurgency at this point. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">HTS is a quick fix solution that fails in the long term, removing the program opens space to allow for academia training the military but without targeting the populations or causing ethical dillemas</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Forte 9,** professor of anthropology in Montreal, Canada. PHD in anthropology (Maximilian 1 March 2009 “The Human Terrain System: Undermining the Military, Antagonizing Academics” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=32c471e98bae43f5a2d51e0cdf1f6945&URL=http%3a%2f%2fzeroanthropology.net%2f2009%2f03%2f01%2fthe-human-terrain-system-undermining-the-military-antagonizing-academics%2f|http://zeroanthropology.net/2009/03/01/the-human-terrain-system-undermining-the-military-antagonizing-academics/]]</span> JDEF) *Quoting Major in the United States Marine Corps, Benn Connable</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> HTS damages relationships with academia: …………………… doctrinally sound programs? It is time for HTS to give way” (64).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Without challenge human terrain teams for their actions we become oblivious to the overall militarization of the social sciences which enables the U.S. to weaponize these sciences</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Forte 10** (Maximilian Forte 13 March 2010 professor of anthropology in Montreal, Canada. PHD in anthropology “Multiplying Human Terrain Dreams of Victory and Fortune” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=32c471e98bae43f5a2d51e0cdf1f6945&URL=http%3a%2f%2fzeroanthropology.net%2f2010%2f03%2f04%2fmultiplying-human-terrain-dreams-of-victory-and-fortune%2f|http://zeroanthropology.net/2010/03/04/multiplying-human-terrain-dreams-of-victory-and-fortune/]]</span> JDEF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> The U.S. military has become the biggest …………….. independent intellect that takes itself seriously.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Don’t believe the negative – their authors that flaunt HTS are paid off this is a fact</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">**Gonzalez 09** (Roberto J. Gonzalez is an associate professor of anthropology at San Jose State University. American Counterinsurgency: Human Science and the Human Terrain 2009 pg 16-18 JDEF)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> When the media fails ………….to those employed by the Lincoln Group in Iraq to promote HTS.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The usage of anthropology provides a medium for neo-colonialist goals </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Whitehead 09</span>** (Neil L. Whitehead PHD from oxford professor of anthropology at the university of wisconsin 5/2/09 “Ethnography, Torture and the Human Terrain / Terror Systems
“http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/5_2/Whitehead5_2.html JDEF)

Morever, there is still.....and intertwined, cultural heritage

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Classification by colonial state maintained the political aritmethic of colonialism defining natives within the colonial imagining and reducing the bodies of those governed to mere quantitative values. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Appadurai</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">93 , </span>**Goddard Professor of Media, Culture, and Communication at the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NYU|NYU]]</span> <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steinhardt_School_of_Culture,_Education,_and_Human_Development|Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development]]</span>, (Arjun Orientalism and the Postcolonial Predicament, P. 324 -26 JDEF)

Documents, such as...officially enforced labeling activities

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Rejection of colonialism is decision rule- it causes mass death and destruction that must be resisted. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Shaikh 07</span>** (Nermeen at Asia Source Development 50, “Interrogating Charity and the Benevolence of Empire,” palgrave-journals Strong JDEF)

It would probably be incorrect to assume....extent of the violence during the partition

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">HTS upholds a military strategy that dehumanizes the population and causes mass civilian causalities  </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Cobban 08</span>** (Helena Cobban B.A. and M.A. from Oxford University in Middle east studies “war and ‘anthropology’” May 4, 2008 [[http://justworldnews.org/archives/002893.html]] JDEF)

I have been concerned about....the dehumanizing term "Human Terrain" connotes