[[toc]]
There is stuff for previous topics - if you want them or anything I've read on jan-feb, but haven't posted, email me at otz1233@gmail.com.


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Social Messaging=== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Definitions </span>__**
Random House Dictionary, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">© Random House, Inc. 20</span>11, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/treat, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Treat” </span>
Treat (v.) - to act or … some specified way 

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Charged refers only to the prosecution of the juvenile </span>__**
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Black’s Law Dictionary</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">20</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">10</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, “Charge” Criminal law</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">In a …</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> information or indictment.</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Therefore the affirmative isn’t bound to defend treating juveniles as adults in prisons because the juvenile is no longer charged with a crime, but is instead convicted. Furthermore the affirmative therefore has to only defend a change in the way juveniles are treated while in court. </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rejecting either system doesn’t negate, since it advocates that the juveniles are treated the same as adults post-alternative, since the same system would be used. </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">v-justice </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The ability of the criminal justice system to uphold the law depends on its legitimacy </span>__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fagan</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columbia Law School </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Professor of Law</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Public Health: Director, Center on Crime, 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Legitimacy and Criminal Justice” OHIO STATE JOURNAL OF CRIMINAL LAW Vol 6:123, moritzlaw.osu.edu/osjcl/Articles/Volume6_1/Fagan.Intro.PDF.pdf (all brackets are in the original article) ozosel, lexis </span>
These challenges to … presumption of illegitimacy.” 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The perception that the law is fair is key to maintaining its legitimacy</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fagan 2</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columbia Law School </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Professor of Law</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Public Health; Director, Center on Crime, 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Legitimacy and Criminal Justice” OHIO STATE JOURNAL OF CRIMINAL LAW Vol 6:123, moritzlaw.osu.edu/osjcl/Articles/Volume6_1/Fagan.Intro.PDF.pdf (all brackets are in the original article) ozosel, lexis </span>
What citizens see … institutions are suspect. 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The criminal justice system is necessary for justice since without the belief that the system would prevent unjust acts, the number of crimes would explode and there would be no recompense for any harms dealt. </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the criterion is protecting the legitimacy of the law.</span>__**


**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if there are some laws that are unfair, the legitimacy of the law must be protected before the questions of a singular law, since the legal system also allows paths to change laws but can only function if it is legitimate.</span>__**


**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is incoherence within the system: </span>__**

<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span class="verdana">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The conception of juveniles as both given rights and needing protection from the law portrays the juvenile as not in control of their actions – this created incoherence within the system. </span>__**</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span class="verdana">Barry C. **__Feld,__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>**__07. Centennial Professor__** of Law<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, </span>“Unmitigated Punishment: Adolescent Criminal Responsibility and </span>[[#ORIGHIT_1]][[#HIT_1]]<span class="hit">LWOP</span><span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Sentences” 10 J. L. Fam. Stud. 11 http://www.lexisnexis.com.floyd.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?docLinkInd=true&risb =21_T10789959866&format=GNBFI&sort=BOOLEAN&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T10789959869&cisb=22_T10789959868&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=243741&docNo=2 ozosel, lexis </span></span></span>
Gault embodied contradictory [[#PAGE_23_8379]]… beyond their control. 

<span class="verdana">**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This incoherence of juveniles as somehow deserving both punishment and rehabilitation within the juvenile system undermines the legitimacy of the system through teaching the juveniles that they are not responsible </span>__**</span>

<span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Emily </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Buss , JD</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yale Law School</span>, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fall, 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">38 Hofstra L. Rev. 13, <span class="verdana">“WHAT THE LAW SHOULD (AND SHOULD NOT) LEARN FROM CHILD DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH” http://www.lexisnexis.com.floyd.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?doc LinkInd=true&risb=21_T10789911438&format=GNBFI&sort=BOOLEAN&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T10789911441&cisb=22_T10789911440&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=7342&docNo=1 ozosel, lexis </span></span>
Young people accused … with our ideals. 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Punishment exists to broadcast a message to the offender and victim that the action was morally wrong. </span>__**

Steven P. **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garvey, </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Professor of Law, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cornell</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Law School]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307 ozosel, lexis </span>
Punishment is usually …up requiring it. 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A crime without censure shows that the offender places him- or her-self above the law, destroying its legitimacy </span>__**

Steven P. **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Garvey 2, </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Professor of Law, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cornell</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Law School]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement.” Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307 ozosel, lexis </span>
We tend by …as he wishes.. 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Juvenile system does not contain this message.</span>__**
<span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Emily </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Buss 2, JD</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yale Law School</span>, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fall, 20</span>**__09__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">38 Hofstra L. Rev. 13, <span class="verdana">“WHAT THE LAW SHOULD (AND SHOULD NOT) LEARN FROM CHILD DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH” http://www.lexisnexis.com.floyd.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/results/docview/docview.do?doc LinkInd=true&risb=21_T10789911438&format=GNBFI&sort=BOOLEAN&startDocNo=1&resultsUrlKey=29_T10789911441&cisb=22_T10789911440&treeMax=true&treeWidth=0&csi=7342&docNo=1 ozosel, lexis </span></span>
Roper's message … sense for them. 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is Lawyers </span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">When legal actors treat the juveniles as responsible actors the youth gain positive relations to the law</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michele </span>**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Peterson-Badali</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephanie </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Care, and</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Julia </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Broeking</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">,. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Department of Human Development and Applied Psychology,</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Ontario Institute for Studies in Education of the University of Toronto </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Canadian Journal of Criminology and Criminal Justice</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Volume 49, Number 3, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">June</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">/juin 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, pp. 375-401, “</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young People's Perceptions and Experiences of the Lawyer-Client Relationship</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">” Projectmuse</span>
The present findings … mutually beneficial goals. 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This interpersonal experience with lawyers shapes the juvenile’s perception of the legal system as a whole, as well as the community at large </span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michele </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Peterson-Badali</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stephanie </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Care, and</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Julia </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Broeking</span>__** **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2</span>__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">,.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Department of Human Development and Applied Psychology, Ontario Institute for Studies in Education of the University of Toronto Canadian Journal of Criminology and Criminal Justice, Volume 49, Number 3, June/juin 2007, pp. 375-401, “Young People's Perceptions and Experiences of the Lawyer-Client Relationship” Projectmuse</span>
Clients’ perceptions of … as social control’’ (Herrin 1997: 2). 


===Social Narrative AC=== 
**__Definitions__** 
**__Random House Dictionary__**, © Random House, Inc. 20**__11__**, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/treat, “Treat” 
**__Treat__** (v.) **__- to__** act or **__behave toward (a person) in some__** specified **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">way </span>__**

**__Ought is defined as advisability, so all the affirmative has to do is show that the action of the resolution is desirable__** 
**__Rejecting either system doesn’t negate, since it advocates that the juveniles are treated the same as adults post-alternative, since the same system would be used.__** 


**__v-justice, giving each their due, since the resolution works in the criminal justice system.__** 

**__For people to get their due, they have to be treated in a consistent manner – otherwise there is no determination of what a person is due.__** 
**__Furthermore, what is due to each person is different, so justice must be individualized to the person, not impersonal.__** 
**__Justice requires determinations of guilt and innocence because otherwise there would be no reason not to arrest a random person instead of the actual criminal.__** 

**__c- treating agents according to their culpability on an individualized basis.__** 
**__Even if the negative wins that there should be another criterion for justice, you still evaluate the affirmative standard first because it is impossible to determine a just action for a person without a method of treating them that can treat them in a just manner according to their circumstances in life.__** 

**__I advocate that juveniles charged with violent felonies ought be treated the same as adults by advocating an individualized social narrative for each defendant to be included in considerations in the justice system.__** 

**__The Neg’s going to try to claim that I need to transfer, however the resolution only asks if there is a method of treating both juveniles charged with violent felonies and adults that is positive for both. Unless she/he shows a specific reason why social narratives should not be included in the system, you affirm.__** 

**__Chapter 1 is categories:__** 
**__Treating juveniles according to categorical development does not make sense from a neuroscience perspective.__** 
Terry A. **__Maroney,__** **__Associate Professor__**, Vanderbilt University Law School, “THE FALSE PROMISE OF ADOLESCENT BRAIN SCIENCE IN JUVENILE JUSTICE” Notre Dame Law Review, Vol 85:1 SSRN, 20**__10__**
Just as developmental … to other values. 

**__The Supreme Court has decided that sentencing laws require an individualized perspective because of the 8th amendment, especially in the context of the death penalty.__** 
Claudia **__Flores, Law Clerk__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the Honorable Harry Pregerson, United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. J.D., 20</span>**__02__**, COMPARATIVE PROPORTIONALITY REVIEWS RECONCEPTUALIZED: CATEGORIZING MITIGATION AND SATISFYING THE EIGHTH AMENDMENT IN THE DEATH PENALTY, 2002, 27 N.Y.U. Rev. L. & Soc. Change 139, lexisnexus 
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">When the Supreme …a crucial requirement. </span>
**__Social histories provide the full context for the defendant and rehumanize her as part of society__** 
Claudia **__Flores 2, Law Clerk__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the Honorable Harry Pregerson, United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. J.D., 20</span>**__02__**, COMPARATIVE PROPORTIONALITY REVIEWS RECONCEPTUALIZED: CATEGORIZING MITIGATION AND SATISFYING THE EIGHTH AMENDMENT IN THE DEATH PENALTY, 2002, 27 N.Y.U. Rev. L. & Soc. Change 139, lexisnexus 
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">In short, social … therefore is problematic. </span>

**__This has two impacts:__** 
**__First, failure to individualize is inefficient and cannot function according to how culpable defendants are since they do not consider relevant narratives__** 
Claudia **__Flores 3, Law Clerk__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the Honorable Harry Pregerson, United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. J.D., 20</span>**__02__**, COMPARATIVE PROPORTIONALITY REVIEWS RECONCEPTUALIZED: CATEGORIZING MITIGATION AND SATISFYING THE EIGHTH AMENDMENT IN THE DEATH PENALTY, 2002, 27 N.Y.U. Rev. L. & Soc. Change 139, lexisnexus 
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">More specifically, the … categorical blind spots. </span>

**__Flores 4 tells the second impact to categorizing– we dehumanize the defendant. Furthermore, pragmatic concerns cannot be relevant to this process.__** 
Claudia **__Flores 4, Law Clerk__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to the Honorable Harry Pregerson, United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. J.D., 20</span>**__02__**, COMPARATIVE PROPORTIONALITY REVIEWS RECONCEPTUALIZED: CATEGORIZING MITIGATION AND SATISFYING THE EIGHTH AMENDMENT IN THE DEATH PENALTY, 2002, 27 N.Y.U. Rev. L. & Soc. Change 139, lexisnexus 
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">Categorization of the … or inanimate object." [[#r168]][[http://www.lexisnexis.com.floyd.lib.umn.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1295704369323&returnToKey=20_T11061671551&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.861778.1007294114#n168|n168]] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[#_Toc157676684]][[#_Toc157820051]] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">[[#_Toc157676685]][[#_Toc157820052]]**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VOJACK </span>Educational Policy Studies__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">@ Illinois </span>**__‘7__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Choosing Language: Social Service Framing and Social Justice” //The British Journal of Social Work// p. 6-7 </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: left;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The psychological effects … of public opinion</span></span> (Pinker, 1971, p. 11). </span>

**__Chapter 2 is the silence:__** 
**__The devaluation of the defendant’s narrative is an act of silencing the defendant.__** 
Alexandra **__Natapoff 1 Associate Professor of Law__**, Loyola Law School, “SPEECHLESS: THE SILENCING OF CRIMINAL DEFENDANTS” November, 20**__05__**, 80 N.Y.U.L. Rev. 1449
Defendant silencing is … as he talks. 

<span style="margin-top: 6pt;">**__The silence of the defendant in the criminal system has major impacts across the system. Even when the defendant speaks up in the current system, the impacts are worse.__**</span>
<span style="margin-top: 6pt;"> Alexandra **__Natapoff 2 Associate Professor of Law__**, Loyola Law School, “SPEECHLESS: THE SILENCING OF CRIMINAL DEFENDANTS” November, 20**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span>__**, 80 N.Y.U.L. Rev. 1449</span>
<span style="margin-top: 6pt;"> Defendant speech, however… defendants be "heard." </span>

<span style="margin-top: 6pt;">**__This new inclusion of the defendant’s narrative would result in a massive restructuring of the legal system. Absent a specific link into social narratives, ignore the NC since it assumes systems without a social narrative__**</span>
<span style="margin-top: 6pt;"> Alexandra **__Natapoff 3 Associate Professor of Law__**, Loyola Law School, “SPEECHLESS: THE SILENCING OF CRIMINAL DEFENDANTS” November, 20**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span>__**, 80 N.Y.U.L. Rev. 1449</span>
<span style="margin-top: 6pt;"> Judges and prosecutors … sources of information. </span>

===LGBT Aff=== 
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Allow Parametrics on the affirmative </span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Parametrics are the ability of the affirmative to defend a single plan based interpretation of the resolution. This is better for four reasons: </span>__**
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">First</span>__** <span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">–</span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">shallow debates</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">.  </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Second</span>__** <span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">– </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Education and Fairness are enhanced</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">.  </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Third</span>__** <span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">– </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Negative Strategy Ground improved.</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">  </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span>
__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">Fourth, prefer aff interpretations of the topic. </span>__
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">“</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 9pt;">And the Twain Shall Meet: Affirmative Framework Choice and the Future of Debate”. Timothy M. </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">O’Donnell</span>__**<span class="MsoEndnoteReference">[[#_edn1|[i]]]</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 9pt;">. </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Director of Debate. </span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 9pt;">University of </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Mary Washington</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 9pt;">. 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 13pt;">04</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 9pt;"> </span>
AFC ensures competitive … designed to address.
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Use a policymaking framework – preferable for 2 reasons: </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">1. Minimizing Intervention  </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2 Real-world Decision-making  </span>


**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">The value is morality, since the resolution asks a question of ought. </span>__**
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">Consequentialism is the only ethical system mandated by human rationality that is physically confirmed by neuroscience </span>__
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Levy 08</span>__</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> (</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">Neil Levy, philosophy professor at </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Oxford</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">, “Introducing Neuroethics,” Neuroethics 1.1 (2008),
</span><span class="UnderlineBold"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Greene</span></span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> et al. …of a thoroughgoing consequentialism</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Morality requires looking to a consequentialist position – deontological ethics collapse into it.
</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">Kantian Consequentialism. David </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Cummiskey</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">. </span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">[Associate Philosophy Professor at </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Bates College</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 19</span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">90</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]].</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">
</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">We must not </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">…of rational beings.</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">  </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Therefore the standard is a post-fiat utilitarian calculus – we compare the benefits and disadvantages of the affirmative and negative positions after we assume the plan and any counterplans are passed. </span>__**
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is Inherency- </span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">The SCOTUS decision in Lawrence v. Texas has been inappropriately applied to exclude LGBT juveniles from bans placed on discriminatory practices </span>__**
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">JOSEPH J. </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">WARDENSKI, J.D. Candidate</span>__** <span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">2007, “A MINOR EXCEPTION?: THE IMPACT OF LAWRENCE V. TEXAS ON LGBT YOUTH” Summer, 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">05</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">, 95 J. Crim. L. & Criminology 1363 </span>
<span style="margin-top: 6pt;"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">Unfortunately, for many …of the holding.</span><span class="DebateUnderline"> </span></span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Plan – the United States Federal Government ought mandate that the sexuality anti-discrimination policies for adult LGBT offenders apply to juveniles charged with violent felonies. </span>__**
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Toss your T shells away, the Lawrence decision was made to protect adults but was not applied to juveniles – the advocacy asks that the discrimination policies about LGBT adults in the criminal justice system be applied to juveniles. </span>__**
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 2 is Heteronormativity </span>__**
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">This failure to extend adult discrimination policies created massive abuse and homophobia in the system, I’ll isolate three links </span>__**
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">First, the misguided attempts to “help” LGBT juveniles within the status quo juvenile system by separating them from the “normal” juveniles FAIL and only stigmatize them more.
</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">Valerie </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Gwinn, Judicial Clerk</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">, “LOCKED IN THE CLOSET: THE IMPACT OF LAWRENCE V. TEXAS ON THE LIVES OF GAY YOUTH IN THE JUVENILE JUSTICE SYSTEM” Spring, 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">, 6 Whittier J. Child & Fam. Advoc. 437 </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">The final reason … interact with children.  </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Second, because there are no laws regarding juvenile facilities’ treatment of LGBT juveniles, they are abused constantly – put away your D/As and NCs – these only mask the homophobic nature of the separation of the systems. </span>__**
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">Valerie </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Gwinn 2, Judicial Clerk</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">, “LOCKED IN THE CLOSET: THE IMPACT OF LAWRENCE V. TEXAS ON THE LIVES OF GAY YOUTH IN THE JUVENILE JUSTICE SYSTEM” Spring, 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">, 6 Whittier J. Child & Fam. Advoc. 437
</span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";">In addition to …the homophobic treatment. </span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Third, the increased punishment applied by actors in the JJS punish LGBT juveniles for failing to conform. </span>__**
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">Valerie </span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">Gwinn 3, Judicial Clerk</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">, “LOCKED IN THE CLOSET: THE IMPACT OF LAWRENCE V. TEXAS ON THE LIVES OF GAY YOUTH IN THE JUVENILE JUSTICE SYSTEM” Spring, 20</span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">, 6 Whittier J. Child & Fam. Advoc. 437 </span>
<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 8pt;">In addition to … or gender identity</span>**__<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>__**
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__Impacts -__  </span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__Homophobic stereotypes reinforce false gay identities and fuel a society of hatred and violence – turns D/A since the basis to violence is created through the__  </span></span>
<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Richard D. <span class="Author-Date">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mohr</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">,</span></span> Prof of Phil Univ if Illinois, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">05</span></span> (The Long Arc if Justice, pg 21) </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">On this understanding ... fear and hatred.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Hetero-normativity turns and outweighs the aff- causes the genocidal erasure of sexual minorities</span>__** <span style="font-family: Times;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Eskridge 97</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, Jr., John A. Garver, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Prof. of Jurisprudence</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, Yale Law School, 1997 (William, Yale Law Review, page lexis)  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times;">Once mobilized at… ask, don't tell.</span> <span style="font-family: "Times New Roman";"> </span></span>



===AT: International Law=== 
**__Links -__**
**__First – the international law sphere masks a cycle of domination where human and political rights are used to bring the Eurocentric “light” to the dark continents of Eastern countries. The negative claims we need to reject the aff so that human rights can be spread to the world – that’s the biggest link you can get to the K.__**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Makau</span> **__Mutua 1__** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">2002__.__ “Terrorism and Human Rights: Power, Culture, and Subordination” //Buffalo Human Rights Law Review v.1// (Professor of Law and Director, Human Rights Center, SUNY)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The international … of human rights. </span>

**__Second, the declaration that human rights are the supreme value is but a weapon to remake the “dark continents”. The rights activist joins the pantheon of Western weapons of colonialism in the remaking of non-Europeans into carbon copies of the West.__** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Makau</span> **__Mutua 2__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">2002 (SUNY Distinguished Professor Floyd H. and Hild L. Hurst Faculty Scholar at the University of Buffalo) //Human Rights: A Political and Cultural Critique,// UPenn Press, pg. 154-166, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">International human rights … victims and savages. </span>

**__Impacts -__**
**__The universalization of the Western Model not only fails, but prevents the grassroots movements that have the only chance for success to protect humans as individually valuable beings__**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Makau</span> **__Mutua 3__** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">2002 (SUNY Distinguished Professor Floyd H. and Hild L. Hurst Faculty Scholar at the University of Buffalo) //Human Rights: A Political and Cultural Critique,// UPenn Press, pg. 5,</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">What should not …liberalism in time. </span>

**__Aff solves – The alternative is to affirm__**
**__The US’s break from international law opens space for a new and universal human rights corpus to be created, one that actually solves for the impacts of the ICCPR.__**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Makau</span> **__Mutua 4__** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">2002 (SUNY Distinguished Professor Floyd H. and Hild L. Hurst Faculty Scholar at the University of Buffalo) //Human Rights: A Political and Cultural Critique,// UPenn Press, pg. 8,</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">It has, however… dialogue and introspection. </span>

==Negative== 
===Legitimacy NC=== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The value is justice, since the resolution functions in the context of the criminal justice system. </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The ability of the criminal justice system to uphold the law depends on its legitimacy </span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fagan</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columbia Law School </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Professor of Law</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Public Health: Director, Center on Crime, 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Legitimacy and Criminal Justice” OHIO STATE JOURNAL OF CRIMINAL LAW Vol 6:123, moritzlaw.osu.edu/osjcl/Articles/Volume6_1/Fagan.Intro.PDF.pdf (all brackets are in the original article) ozosel, lexis </span>
These challenges to …presumption of illegitimacy.” 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The perception that the law is fair is key to maintaining its legitimacy</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fagan 2</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Columbia Law School </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Professor of Law</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Public Health; Director, Center on Crime, 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Legitimacy and Criminal Justice” OHIO STATE JOURNAL OF CRIMINAL LAW Vol 6:123, moritzlaw.osu.edu/osjcl/Articles/Volume6_1/Fagan.Intro.PDF.pdf (all brackets are in the original article) ozosel, lexis </span>
What citizens see …institutions are suspect. 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The criminal justice system is necessary for justice since without the belief that the system would prevent unjust acts, the number of crimes would explode and there would be no recompense for any harms dealt. In short, the law would lose any and all legitimacy. </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the criterion is protecting the legitimacy of the law. </span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if you evaluate the round through a different framework, the negative’s impacts come first, since the criminal justice system depends on the perception of its legitimacy – that’s Fagan. </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My sole contention is that processing juveniles in the adult system reduces the legitimacy of the law. </span>__**

__Subpoint A is the juveniles:__

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The juvenile system causes more positive experiences for juvenile treatment </span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Richard E. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Redding, Villanova</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">University School of Law and Drexel University, “The Effects Of Adjudicating And Sentencing Juveniles As Adults : Research and Policy Implications,” //Youth Violence and Juvenile Justice// 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://yvj.sagepub.com/content/1/2/128).</span>
A recent study …be unfair sentences. 

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Subpoint B is the public: </span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The public believes in the necessity for juvenile rehabilitation programs from a moral standpoint </span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Celissa M</span>. **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moon</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jody L</span>. **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sundt</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Francis T. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cullen, and</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">John Paul </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wright</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Criminal Justice, East Tennessee State University, Professor of Criminal Justice, Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, Distinguished Research Professor of Criminal Justice, University of Cincinnati, Professor of Justice, East Tennessee State University, “Is Child Saving Dead? Public Support for Juvenile Rehabilitation” Crime & Delinquency, Vol 46 No 1, Jan 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">00</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://cad.sagepub.com/content/46/1/38 </span>
Finally, we should … to everyone else. (pp. 16-17<span style="font-size: 7pt;">) </span>

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This means that the public would lose all faith in the capacity of the justice system independent from the juveniles if juveniles were placed into the adult system. </span>__**

===Contracts DA=== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contracts are the moral basis for giving rights to others, failure to follow through on a contract violates morality </span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ARTHUR </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">RIPSTEIN, professor of law and philosophy</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the University of Toronto, Authority and Coercion 20</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by Blackwell Publishing, Inc. Philosophy & Public Affairs </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, no. </span>
Contract enables parties …the other person.

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The ICCPR, a contract to which the US has agreed, prevents juveniles being treated the same. </span>__**
**__Connie de la Vega and Michelle Leighton__** [Connie de la Vega is Professor of Law and Director of the Frank C. Newman International Human Rights Clinic, University of San Francisco School of Law. Michelle Leighton is Director of Human Rights Programs, Center for Law and Global Justice, University of San Francisco School of Law]“Sentencing Our Children to Die in Prison: Global Law and Practice” University of San Francisco Law Review, Vol. 42. Spring 2008.

<span style="color: black;">The United States [[#_GoBack]]</span>

===CLS K=== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Act 1 is the link/solvency turn– the affirmative’s claim to solving due process/racism rights through the law both entrenches the power of the State to control rights and diverts the protection of rights to only those the state is willing to give – the affirmative both prevents theirs and other rights from being realized as well as cause the state to gain power over humanity, creating acceptance with the law. </span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gabel, Professor of Law</span>__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at the New College of California School of Law, 19</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">84</span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The Phenomenology of Rights-Consciousness and the Pact of the Withdrawn Selves,” Texas Law Review (62 Tex. L. Rev. 1563), May, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis] </span>
When State officials … the alienated whole.


<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">__Act 2 is the impact – the affirmative’s acceptance of the law causes it to be unquestioned as social control. This blind acceptance allows the inevitably violent law to create authoritarianism.__ </span>
Lynne **__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Henderson</span>__**, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Professor of Law</span>__** at the Indiana University School of Law at Bloomington, **__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-variant: small-caps;">1991 </span>__**[“Authoritarianism and the Rule of Law,” //Indiana Law Journal// (66 Ind. L.J. 379), Spring, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis]
The lack of …<span class="CardText-Underlined"> <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">alternative legal meanings</span></span>**.**


**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Act 3 is the way out – the alternative is to leave the law as it is, incoherent, and to recognize and criticize this fact. Even if this act is nihilistic, it opens new alternatives that would otherwise be hidden to us. Furthermore, solves case because it creates recognition that the law is unfair and incoherent and thus teaches to question and to work together. </span>__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joseph William </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Singer, Associate Professor of Law</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Boston University, “The Player and the Cards: Nihilism and Legal Theory” The Yale Law Journal, Vol. 94, No. 1 (Nov., 19</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">84</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">), pp. 1-70, http://www.jstor.org/stable/796315</span>.
Legal scholars can … that question ourselves.

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]