1AC OKINAWA AFFIRMATIVE
We begin with the plan:
The United States federal government should relocate, to the point of elimination, the United States military presence in the Okinawa prefecture of Japan. 
We can clarify. 

Advantage 1 is the DPJ:

__First-__ The current political climate on Okinawa makes relocation impossible—our evidence assumes the elections. 
<span class="cite">Stars and Stripes</span>—an independent news source that operates from inside the United States Department of Defense but is editorially separate from it<span class="cite"> 9-14-10<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> (“Realignment Plan Looks Firm as Kan Wins DPJ Election” </span></span>David Allen and Chiyomi Sumid available online at [[http://www.stripes.com/news/realignment-plans-look-firm-as-kan-wins-dpj-presidential-election-1.118119]])
GINOWAN, Okinawa — Prime Minister Naoto… <span class="underline">as Mr. Kan intends.” </span>

__Second-__ US Presence in Okinawa collapses the DPJ’s ability to build coalitions—it has been the deciding factor in the past. 
<span class="cite">The Mainichi Daily News</span>- <span style="color: black;">the English-language news site of Japan's Mainichi Newspapers- </span><span class="cite">10-2</span><span style="color: black;">-10 (“Social Democratic Party Seeking Renewed Alliance with Democratic Party of Japan” October 2 </span>[[http://mdn.mainichi.jp/mdnnews/news/20101001p2a00m0na013000c.html]]) 
<span class="underline">The</span> opposition <span class="underline">Social Democratic Party <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">… </span></span>the next House of Representatives election.

__Third-__ Factions within the DPJ make passing their agenda difficult- if not impossible.
China Daily<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">- the largest English portal in China, providing news, business information, BBS, learning materials-</span> 9-30<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">-10 (“Japan Must Look Beyond Its Internal Problems” Wang Ping September 30th [[http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/opinion/2010-09/30/content_11367728.htm]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Many Japanese media outlets … but also elevated its status.</span>

__Fourth__—U.S. accommodation is key to save Kan’s administration—pressure will decimate the fragile DPJ coalition.
<span class="cite">The Globe and Mail</span>—a Canadian English language nationally distributed newspaper, <span class="cite">2010</span> (“Obama’s blunder on Okinawa,” editorial, June 2nd, Available Online at http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/opinions/editorials/obamas-blunder-on-okinawa/article1601528/, Accessed 07-19-2010)
President Barack <span class="underline">Obama<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>be more accommodating</span>.

__Fifth__- coalition building is crucial to overall effectiveness of the DPJ.
<span class="cite">Nikkei</span><span style="color: black;">.com- the Nikkei Weekly is an English-language business paper that covers important economic, business and political news of Japan- </span><span class="cite">9-15</span><span style="color: black;">-10 (“DPJ Faces Challenges of Pushing Agenda in Upper House” September 15th </span>[[http://e.nikkei.com/e/fr/tnks/Nni20100914D14JFA19.htm]])
TOKYO (Nikkei)--Prime Minister Naoto … <span class="underline">wait-and-see approach.</span>


We’ll isolate two scenarios:

Subpoint A is Economy: 

DPJ passage of a supplementary budget is key to the Japanese economy- coalitions are key. 
<span class="cite">The Japan Times</span> (Online)- Alex Martin: staff writer- <span class="cite">10-1</span>-10 (“Rocky Road Ahead for Kan as DPJ Addresses Economy”- October 1st, [[http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20101001f1.html]])
<span class="underline">The top priority for<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>in return for their cooperation. </span>

Financial reforms are vital to prevent Japanese economic collapse.
<span class="cite">International Monetary Fund</span>, <span class="cite">2010</span> (“IMF Calls for Japan to Rein In Debt,” July 14th, Available Online at http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/survey/so/2010/CAR071410B.htm, Accessed 07-20-2010)
<span class="underline">Despite the projected upturn,<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>foreign investment<span style="font-weight: normal;">,” said Gordo</span></span>n.

Japanese economic collapse causes global economic decline, protectionism, collapse of democracy, and Asian conflict.
Michael <span class="cite">Auslin</span>, resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, February 17, <span class="cite">2009</span>, Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html
Recently, many <span class="underline">economists<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>most heavily armed region </span>

Now is key- worst economic decline in Japan since WWII
<span class="cite">ABC News 9</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(“Japan's economic crisis worst since WWII: minister “, http://www.abc.net.au/ne ws/stories/2009/02/16/ 2492373.htm, 7/22/10) </span>
<span class="underline">Japan faces the worst<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span></span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">revive the economy, Yosano said. </span>


Resiliency is false—Japan is nearing an invisible threshold of economic collapse. 
<span class="cite">EIU ViewsWire </span>May 10, 20<span class="cite">10 </span>(“Japan economy: Towards a fiscal crisis?”, lexis nexis, ECONOMIST INTELLIGENCE UNIT, 7/22/10) 
Low or negative inflation … <span class="underline">eventual crisis from hitting. </span>


Subpoint B is Warming: 

A strong DPJ is key to passing climate legislation.
Risa<span class="cite"> Maeda and </span>Chisa<span class="cite"> Fujoka</span>, “Japan aims to pass climate bill by year end Climate talks”, 6-16-<span class="cite">2010</span>; Reporters for Eco-Business.Com, 
http://www.eco-business.com/news/2010/jun/16/japan-aims-pass-climate-bill-yr-end-un-talks/
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">Japan will aim to pass<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span></span>change talks, including COP 16. </span>

Domestic action on climate change is key to bolster Japanese leadership on climate – that’s key to global action.
Monir Hossain<span class="cite"> Moni</span>, May <span class="cite">2009</span>, “Why Japan’s Development Aid Matters Most for Dealing with Global Environmental Problems”, Asia Pacific Review: Volume 16, Issue 1, Pages 8-36; Ph.D, Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies, Professor at the Univresity of Dhaka in Bangladesh, Japan Foreign Policy expert; d/a 7-19; Accessed via Informaworld Journals
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">Environmental ODA has<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>global environmental problems</span>. </span>



Japanese leadership is key in the campaign against global warming and climate change.
<span class="cite">Boston Globe 2007</span> (“Green and growing” http://www.boston.com/news/globe/editorial_opinion/ editorials/articles/2007/03/26/green_and_growing/
<span class="underline">AN ISLAND nation<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>Sooner or later, we are all Japan. </span>

Japan’s climate change policy is replicated by other countries.
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Asian Perspective </span>Carin <span class="cite">Holroyd</span> is a graduate<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> of the University of British Columbia, Chaminade University of Honolulu and the Japan American Institute of Management Science at Sophia University, Tokyo, and has a Ph.D. from the University of Waikato, New Zealand. NATIONAL MOBILIZATION AND GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT: UNDERSTANDING JAPAN’S RESPONSE TO GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE INITIATIVES. </span><span class="cite">2009</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> [[http://www.asianperspective.org/articles/v33n2-c.pdf]] 7/26/2010 </span>
<span class="underline">The government of Japan <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">… </span></span>its Kyoto protocol commitment.

Warming’s irreversible – guarantees extinction.
Cass R. <span class="cite">Sunstein</span>—Professor in the Department of Political Science and at the Law School of the University of Chicago—<span class="cite">2007</span> (//Worst-Case Scenarios//, Harvard University Press, p. 176-177)
Most worst-case scenarios … would otherwise seem justified.

Prefer our impact—the irreversible nature of climate change dictates that it be prioritized over other concerns.
<span class="cite">Mongabay</span>, cites Susan Solomon, <span class="cite">2009</span> (“Many global warming impacts may be irreversible in next 1000 years,” Byline Rhett Butler, January 27th, Available Online at http://www.climateark.org/shared/reader/welcome.aspx?linkid=116603, Accessed 07-22-2010)
"**__It is sometimes imagined__** … **__carbon dioxide reached__**."

Warming turns war- three ways
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">James R. </span><span class="cite">Lee </span>is a Professor in the School of International Service, American University, Washington, DC and Associate Director of American University's Center for Teaching Excellence. He is author of several books on international relations. Global Warming Is Just the Tip of the Iceberg 1/4/<span class="cite">2009</span> [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/01/02/AR2009010202280.html]] 7/27/2010 
<span class="underline">The Cold War shaped world <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">… </span></span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">heating new conflicts up to the boiling point.</span>

Advantage 2: North Korea

North Korea views the U.S. Marine Corps presence in Okinawa as an existential threat to its sovereignty—they are preparing to respond with military force.
<span class="cite">KCNA</span> (Korea Central News Agency), <span class="cite">the state-run news agency of North Korea</span>, **<span class="cite">2010</span>** [4/13/10, "North Korean agency criticizes USA's "sudden change" theory", Text of report by state-run North Korean news agency KCNA website, from BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific, lexis]
Lately, <span class="underline">the United States <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">… </span>strengthen the self-defensive war deterrent. </span>


This is not an empty threat—North Korea is building up its military capabilities including its nuclear arsenal in order to wage war against the United States—Okinawa is the key flashpoint.
<span class="cite">Pyongyang Broadcasting Station 2003</span> (5/14/03, "North Korea says US wants to resolve nuclear issue through war", BBC Summary of World Broadcasts, lexis)
<span class="underline">In a situation where DPRK<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>We never make empty remarks </span>urinun kyolk'o pinmarul haji anunda .

Continued military presence makes entanglement with North Korea inevitable—this would draw the U.S. into an unnecessary but bloody conflict.
Doug <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bandow</span></span>, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2010</span></span> (“Avoiding Pyongyang,” //The National Interest Online//, May 24th, Available Online at http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23432)
<span class="underline">The sinking</span> of the… what might the Kim regime do next?

North Korean aggression will quickly escalate to nuclear conflict—they’re willing to destroy the planet to protect their interests.
<span class="cite">Bennett 10 </span>[Bruce, Senior Defense Analyst, Ph.D. in policy analysis, RAND Graduate Institute (now the Pardee RAND Graduate School); B.S. in economics, California Institute of Technology “Uncertainties in the North Korean Nuclear Threat”, NATIONAL DEFENSE RESEARCH INSTITUTE, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA522763&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]
<span class="underline">North Korea actively uses<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>or try to sell them to third parties</span>.

The terminal impact is global nuclear war.
Peter <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Hayes</span></span>, Professor of International Relations at RMIT University (Australia) and Director of the Nautilus Institute in San Francisco, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">and</span></span> Michael <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Hamel-Green</span></span>, Dean of and Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development at Victoria University (Australia), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2009</span></span> (“The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” //The Asia-Pacific Journal//, December 14th, Available Online at http://www.japanfocus.org/-Peter-Hayes/3267)
At worst, <span class="underline">there is the<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>from the international community</span>.

The plan is the only way to avoid catastrophic U.S. involvement in regional quagmires that risk escalatory conflict—only exiting Okinawa can refashion the U.S.-Japan alliance to secure regional stability.
Doug <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bandow</span></span>, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2010</span></span> (“Japan Can Defend Itself,” //The National Interest Online//, May 12th, Available Online at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804)
<span class="underline">With Tokyo retreating<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> … </span>It's time for Washington to deliver</span>.

GENDER ADVANTAGE: 

__First__—the U.S. military occupation of Okinawa has led to __constant rape and sexual terror__. Withdrawal is key to __actualize Okinawan feminism__—our methodology __precludes nuclear proliferation and achieves perpetual peace__.
Drucilla <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cornell</span></span>, Professor of Political Science, Comparative Literature, and Women's Studies at Rutgers University, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span> (//Defending Ideals: War, Democracy, And Political Struggles//, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415948835, p. 115-116)


__Second__—this sexual violence is equivalent to __gendered warfare__—it causes __incalculable suffering__ and affects __entire communities__.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chowdhury 2</span></span><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">—</span></span>works in a domestic abuse help office (Rumna, “Kadic v Karadzic – rape as a crime against women as a class” 20 Laq & Ineq J 91)


__Third__—patriarchal inclinations __guarantee extinction__—recognizing a new framework of thought __dismantles oppression__.
<span class="cite">Warren and Cady 94</span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">(Karen J, Duane L, feminists and authors, Hypatia, “Feminism and Peace: Seeing connections,” pg 16-17)</span>


__Finally__—the Okinawan struggle is __symbolic__ of the __broader struggle against patriarchal social order__ that causes __suffering__ and __rape__—embracing the aff as a __protest__ opens up space for __new structures__ to emerge.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tanji 6</span></span>—Research Fellow, CASAAP, Curtin University, PhD (Murd) (Miyume, © 2006, “Myth, Protest and Struggle in Okinawa”, Routledge) p. 151-2

DEFENSE INDEPENDENCE


__First__—continued U.S. military presence __discourages Japan from pursuing defense independence__—the plan would force Japan to __reconsider its global posture__.
Doug <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow</span></span>, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> (“Japan Can Defend Itself,” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">The National Interest Online</span>//, May 12th, Available Online at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804, Accessed 07-20-2010)

<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">World War II ended 65 years ago.... </span>They must advocate defense independence</span>.

__Second__—the plan is key to avoid __catastrophic U.S. involvement__ in __regional quagmires__—only __exiting Okinawa__ can refashion the U.S.-Japan alliance to __secure regional stability__.
Doug <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bandow</span></span>, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2010</span></span> (“Japan Can Defend Itself,” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">The National Interest Online</span>//, May 12th, Available Online at http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">With Tokyo retreating from its commitment...</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Both Okinawans and Americans deserve justice. It's time for Washington to deliver</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

Current strategy puts the U.S. on a __collision course__ with China—this makes war __inevitable__.
Christopher <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Layne</span></span>, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2007</span></span> ("The Case Against the American Empire," //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">American Empire: A Debate</span>//, Published by Routledge, ISBN 0415952034, p. 73-74)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">To be sure, <span class="underline">the United States... </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">however, Sino-American conflict is virtually certain</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

This risks __extinction__.
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Straits Times</span></span> (Singapore), <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2000</span></span> (“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Available Online via Lexis-Nexis)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The high-intensity scenario postulates... </span><span class="underline">, for China puts sovereignty above everything else</span>.

The plan __solves__—exiting Okinawa is key to __deter China without drawing in the U.S.__
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">Doug <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bandow</span></span>, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan and Senior Policy Analyst in the 1980 Reagan for President Campaign, holds a B.A. in Economics from Florida State University and a J.D. from Stanford University, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2010</span></span> (“Get Out of Japan,” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">The National Interest Online</span>//, June 18th, Available Online at http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23592)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Do U.S. bases in Okinawa help... </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Then local or regional conflicts would be much less likely to end up in Washington</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> </span>
__Finally__—__no risk of offense__—relocating the Marine Corps outside of Okinawa is comparatively better for U.S. strategic interests.
Seigen <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Miyasato</span></span>, Chairman of the Study Group of Okinawa External Affairs and Professor and Director of the Center for Japan-U.S. Relations at the International University of Japan, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">et al.</span></span>, with 17 co-signers, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2009</span></span> (“A Letter to President Obama from Okinawans,” Close The Base—a project of the Institute For Policy Studies, November 9th, Available Online at http://closethebase.org/background/letter-to-the-president/)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Dear President Barack Hussein Obama, We are residents of Okinawa... </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Both countries would benefit from a break with the status quo and a fresh perspective on the Futenma issue</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>