[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative <span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 13.824px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 22px;">I affirm.</span>== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1in; margin-right: -1in; margin-top: 0in;">Defined from the Merriam-Webster Dictionary: </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__Ought__**: moral obligation </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="vi">**__Public health__**:</span> the art and science dealing with the protection and improvement of community <span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; font-variant: small-caps; padding: 0in;">[[@http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/public%20health|health]]</span> by organized community effort and including preventive medicine and sanitary and social science </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1in; margin-right: -1in; margin-top: 0in;">Oregonlaws.org defines **__Criminal Justice System__**: </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1in; margin-right: -1in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"Criminal justice</span>** **<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;"><span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; padding: 0in;">[[https://www.oregonlaws.org/glossary/definition/system|system]]</span>…</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">be a crime</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1in; margin-right: -1in; margin-top: 0in;">I value **morality** because ought implies a moral obligation. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1in; margin-right: -1in; margin-top: 0in;">The standard is **promoting effective education**. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;">**First, people have an inherent right to education since it is essential to access all other rights. The Right to Education Project explains:** </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 10pt;">As well as ...</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">and power holders.[[#_ftn1|[1]]]</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1in; margin-right: -1in; margin-top: 0in;">First, kids in juvenile hall receive literally no education. Katherine Twomey writes 2008. </span>

==<span style="line-height: 10.5pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">The Right to Education in Juvenile Detention under State Constitutions, Katherine Twomey, </span><span style="color: #265985; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.jstor.org.shs-13.scarsdaleschools.k12.ny.us:2048/action/showPublication?journalCode=virglawrevi|Virginia Law Review]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, Vol. 94, No. 3 (May, 2008), pp. 765-811, Published by: <span style="color: #265985;">[[http://www.jstor.org.shs-13.scarsdaleschools.k12.ny.us:2048/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=vlr|Virginia Law Review]]</span>, http://www.jstor.org/stable/25470570</span> </span>== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__Over 96,000 children …to pursue one.__** </span>

<span style="margin-left: -1in;">**AND** </span>

<span style="margin-left: -1in;">A majority of the kids in juvenile hall are their for drug abuse. Laurie Chassin 2008 writes. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Princeton University**<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Juvenile Justice and Substance UseAuthor(s): Laurie ChassinSource: The Future of Children, Vol. 18, No. 2, Juvenile Justice (Fall, 2008), pp. 165-183Published by: </span>Princeton University<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stable URL: </span>http://www.jstor.org/stable/20179983<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Accessed: 18/10/2010 17:03</span>Your </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__The link between …the United States.__** </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;">**AND** </span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1in; margin-right: -1in; margin-top: 0in;">Kids put in juvi for drugs are more likely to become repeat offenders. Chassin 2 </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;">**__Research has also …to reduce recidivism.__** </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Thus children who enter into the criminal justice system receive zero education, and because so many become repeat offenders they’re likely to return, making a traditional education almost impossible.</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Second,** <span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">rehabilitation solves. People who enroll in treatment programs get out relatively quickly and can function in society, Anglin writes. </span></span>

==<span style="line-height: 10.5pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="color: #333333;">Treatment of Drug Abuse </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">M. Douglas Anglin and Yih-Ing Hser, </span><span style="color: #265985;">[[http://www.jstor.org.shs-13.scarsdaleschools.k12.ny.us:2048/action/showPublication?journalCode=crimejustice|Crime and Justice]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Vol. 13, Drugs and Crime (1990), pp. 393-460 Published by: <span style="color: #265985;">[[http://www.jstor.org.shs-13.scarsdaleschools.k12.ny.us:2048/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=ucpress|The University of Chicago Press]]</span> http://www.jstor.org/stable/1147489</span> </span>== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1.0in; margin-right: -1.0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif;">Both DARP and</span>…**__yielded contrary results.__** </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1in; margin-right: -1in; margin-top: 0in;">Through this program, adolescents would be able to engage in treatment programs while still carrying on their education. This would allow them to better integrate into society and still have a successful future, meaning I meet the affirmative burden of promoting a better education than the negative, you can sign the ballot. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: -1in; margin-right: -1in; margin-top: 0in;">Thus I affirm. </span>





----

<span style="display: block;"> [[#_ftnref1|[1]]]<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> **__The right to education project__** “Defining the right to education” [[http://www.right-to-education.org/node/233]] august/21/2009. </span>
</span>

==Negative== 
==<span style="font-size: 13.824px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">I negate on the basis that the abuse of illegal drugs is best minimized by a combination of both public health and criminal justice policy.</span>== 

Illegal drug abuse is a vastly complex issue. Such a problem demands a comprehensive approach, as no one solution will adequately cover all facets of the problem. Each solution has its pros and cons. It is foolish to entirely rule out an approach because it does not work in certain scenarios. As a whole, the multifaceted strategy of both domestic enforcement and anti-drug programs are reducing drug use among the largest user base, teens age 12-17, in the status quo. 
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Helvetica","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Helvetica","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt;">The U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration reports: </span></span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Helvetica","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt;">In September 2007… 6.7% in 2006. </span></span>**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: "Helvetica","sans-serif"; font-size: 11.0pt;">
</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Infoplease.com database, © Pearson Education Inc. 2007.  </span>

The value is **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">societal welfare</span>**, as the abuse of illegal drugs harms both the user and those around him. Not only is there a tremendous loss in productivity from the user, but persons close to the user may experience physical and emotional trauma induced by drug abuse. 

Thus the standard is **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">minimizing illegal drug abuse</span>**. 
<span style="mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;">1. The rhetoric of the resolution implies that the ultimate goal in the round is to lower illegal drug abuse. Prefer a standard that deals with illegal drug abuse because it is the most contextual to the resolution. </span>
<span style="mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;">2. Prefer a consequentialist standard because it is unrealistic to assume that crime can be stopped completely. Minimizing illegal drug abuse is the most realistic approach to the problem and must be considered first in the round.</span>
<span style="mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;">3. Minimizing illegal drug abuse is necessary to achieve the value as abusing illicit drugs leads to a loss of productivity, harms the mental, emotional, and physical health of the user and those around him and thus harms society; thus to achieve societal welfare the abuse of illegal drugs must be kept at a minimum.</span>
<span style="mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; text-indent: -.25in;">4. Prefer this standard because it allows for all impacts to be considered for both debaters. A standard that excludes impacts specific to one side skews ground for the debate and makes it impossible for the other side to win. </span>


Contention 1: An approach combining the public health system and the criminal justice system achieves the best results.

The criminal justice system is often where addicts come into contact with treatment programs. It motivates addicts to attend programs. Anglin writes:
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Many, however, are …by supervising officials.  </span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Treatment of Drug Abuse. Author(s): M. Douglas Anglin and Yih-Ing Hser. Source: Crime and Justice, Vol. 13, Drugs and Crime (1990), pp. 393-460.</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> </span>

AND

The criminal justice system complements community treatment programs. Anglin 2 writes:
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The criminal justice system …enhanced treatment outcomes. </span>**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Treatment of Drug Abuse. Author(s): M. Douglas Anglin and Yih-Ing Hser. Source: Crime and Justice, Vol. 13, Drugs and Crime (1990), pp. 393-460. </span>

Drug addicts are introduced to treatment programs as a result of their involvement in the criminal justice system, ultimately leading to a reduction in illegal drug usage. The criminal justice system will actually benefit the addicts even more than treatment alone, because addicts are forced to attend sessions. It will also introduce more addicts into the treatment system, increasing the influence of treatment programs and thus minimizing illegal drug abuse. These impacts are unique to the negative because they require the criminal justice system to be working cooperatively with public health organizations. 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]