[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 



=<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; border-left-color: #000000; border-left-style: solid; border-left-width: 1px; border-right-color: #000000; border-right-style: solid; border-right-width: 1px; border-top-color: #000000; border-top-style: solid; border-top-width: 1px; font-size: 1.6em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 5px; padding-left: 5px; padding-right: 5px; padding-top: 5px;">**January-February**</span>= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Affirmative]]Affirmative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Affirmative-DUE PROCESS AC]]DUE PROCESS AC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">OBSERVATION ONE: Charged means the time between indictment and conviction or acquittal.
"charge." Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law. Merriam-Webster, Inc. 17 Dec. 2010. <Dictionary.com<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/charge]]</span>>.

"To make an...in the indictment"



Value: Justice

VC: maintaining consistency with the law



First, due process protections are the practical means by which individual rights are asserted as a check against unrestrained use of the criminal law by the government.
Herbert L. Packer—1993. Two Models of The Criminal Process. The Limits of Criminal Sanction. Sage Publications, pp. 36-37.

"Since the 1980's...criminal history score."



Second, using fair procedures is on the only way to ensure that outcomes are fair and maximize desirable ends.
Ronald O. Otterstein—December 1992. [B.A. University of British Columbia. M.A. Department of Philosophy]. Is Nuclear Deterrence Rational?

"it might seem...sometimes utility maximizing."




Third, Due process rights are vital to public compliance with the law.
Tracey Meares [Max Pam Professor and Director of the Center for Studies in Criminal Justice, The University of Chicago Law School; Senior Research Fellow, American Bar Foundation], “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, Vol 3:105 (2005)

"It goes almost...trial is 'fair'".




CONTENTION 1: The juvenile ustice system is unable to protect due process.

First, Juvenile courts deny defendants trial by jury.
Barry C. Feld—Autumn 1997. [Centennial Professor of Law, University of Minnesota Law School. Ph.D. (Sociology), Harvard University, 1973; J.D., University of Minnesota Law School, 1969; B.A., University of Pennsylvania, 1966]. Abolish The Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, No. 1, pp. 68-136.

"Although the right...from public scrutiny."




Second, Juvenile courts obstruct the right to counsel
Marsha Levick [Legal Director and Co-founder, Juvenile Law Center; Adjunct Professor of
Law, University of Pennsylvania School of Law and Temple University, Beasley School
of Law] and Neha Desai [Sol and Helen Zubrow Fellow, Juvenile Law Center], “STILL WAITING: THE ELUSIVE QUEST TO ENSURE JUVENILES A CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO COUNSEL AT ALL STAGES OF THE JUVENILE COURT PROCESS,” Rutgers Law Review, Vol. 60:1 (2007), pp. 175-205, 175-178.</span>
* 
* <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"forty years after...in resources remain."</span>
* 
* 
* 
* 
* <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Third, defendants are unlikely to forcefully assert their rights.</span>
* <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Courtney P. Fain, What's in a Name? The Worrisome Interchange of Juvenile "Adjudications" with Criminal "Convictions", 49 B.C.L. Rev. 495 (2008), p. 520-522 <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/bclr/vol49/iss2/4]]</span>></span>
* 
* <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"By most accounts...to receive services."</span>
* 
* 
* 
* 
* <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contention Two: The adult court system is ideally situated to protect due process of all accused persons.</span>
* 
* <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The criminal courts are equipped to address the unique circumstances and characteristics of each case</span>
* <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.</span>
* 
* <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">"Perhaps the most...look as follows."</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The existing infrastructure of the juvenile and adult correctional systems would continue operate effectively and unhindered if juveniles were tried in the criminal justice system
Kelley Marie Dziedzic—2008. [Honors Thesis Candidate, University of Tennessee]. The Evolving Policymaking Process of the Juvenile Justice System. University of Tennessee Honors Thesis Projects.

"As Butts and ...criminal justice system."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"> </span></span>
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Negative**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative-COMPETENCY NC]]COMPETENCY NC**</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality

S: Respecting Competency to stand trial

Competency to stand trial is a fundamental right.
Elizabeth S. Scott[University of Virginia School of Law] and Thomas Grisso [University of Massachusetts Medical Center] “Developmental Incompetence, Due Process and Juvenile Justice Policy.” 2004. University of Virginia Law School.

"It is generally...to stand trial."


I contend that juveniles are not competent to stand trial.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">

First, juveniles lack multiple markers of competency.
Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.

"Our results indicate...ethnicity or SES."


If juveniles are immature, then they are incompetent to stand trial. This is consistent with Supreme Court precedent.
Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.

"The issue that...for criminal adjudication."


Second, A separate juvenile court system with lower competence standards affords due process rights and assures justice.
Thomas Grisso, Laurence Steinberg, Jennifer Woolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, Elizabeth Scott, Sandra Graham, Fran Lexcen, N. Dickon Reppucci, and Robert Schwartz—August 2003. [University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts. Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Department of Psychology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC. Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. School of Law, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, University of California – Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California. Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. Juvenile Law Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania]. Juveniles’ Competence to Stand Trial: A Comparison of Adolescents’ and Adults’ Capacities as Trial Defendants. Law and Human Behavior, Vol. 27, No. 4.

"We believe that...rationally with counsel."</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#January-February-Negative-RECIDIVISM NC]]RECIDIVISM NC**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V: Morality

S: Minimizing suffering
Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection. The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm.
Also, consequentialism is the only standard that meets the logical requirements for moral decision-making. Because moral rules are not empirically verifiable, free and rational moral agents are responsible for the maxims they employ when faced with a moral dilemma. Thus, moral rules must rationally guide our actions.
Richard M. Hare—1963 [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford], Freedom and Reason (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1963), pp. 1.

"I ask the...as a burden."


Any rational reason that an agent can construct for taking an action commits that actor to endorsing a universalizable maxim. If there is a reason for me to take an action, it must apply to all similar circumstances. Otherwise, it isn’t a reason at all.
[1] R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.

"I shall not...being a reason."


Only preference satisfaction is universal and prescriptive.
R.M. Hare—1954-1955. [White’s Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford]. Universalisability Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 55, pp. 295-312.

"I mention these...to maximize satisfactions."

I contend that punishing juveniles in the adult court system increases recidivism.


This is empirically verified.
Kelly M. Angell, University of Southern California Law School, ’04, Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal, 14:125, p. 140]

"studies have found...the short run."



There are 5 reasons why being incarcerated in criminal courts, rather than juvneile courts increases recidivism rates.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School
of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.


"Experts (see Bazemore...and community reintegreation."


Recidivism has four impacts.
Jane Wilson – '07 [Stanford's Strauss Scholar, developing educational programs for inmates in cities across the US.], Reducing Juvenile Recidivism in the United States, Roosevelt Review. Scribd.

"The effects of...cannot be understood."


Moreover, Juveniles are more likely to be harmed and even killed in adult prisons.
Richard Redding – '08 [professor of law at Chapman University School of Law], Juvenile Transfer Laws: An Effective Deterrent to Delinquency?, Juvenile Justice Bulletin, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.

"Juveniles in adult...even more violent."</span>