[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Any questions or comments - [[mailto:Coppelldebate@gmail.com|Coppelldebate@gmail.com]]

More specifically--

[[mailto:Drewsdebateemail@gmail.com|Drewsdebateemail@gmail.com]] (Aff cites)

[[mailto:Priyanka.Krishnamurthy@gmail.com|Priyanka.Krishnamurthy@gmail.com]] (Neg cites)
== == 
==Nietzsche Aff== 
**<span class="cardChar">Contention One: The Military</span>**

**<span class="cardChar">The military creates the idea of global insecurity and an invisible threat legitimizing a state of emergency, this state can justify any conflict and is ultimately more dangerous then any threat it constructs, representing the Nietzschean idea of Ressentiment.</span>**
**<span class="cite">Žižek 05 </span>**<span class="cardChar">By Slavoj </span><span class="cite">Žižek</span><span class="cardChar"> “Give Iranian Nukes a Chance In a mad world, the logic of MAD still works” August 11, 20</span><span class="cite">05</span>

<span class="cardChar">Every power structure has to rely on an underlying implicit threat,</span> i.e. <span class="cardChar">whatever the official democratic rules and legal constraints may be, we can ultimately do whatever we want to you</span>. In the 20th century, however, the nature of this link between power and the invisible threat that sustains it changed. <span class="cardChar">Existing power structures no longer relied on their own fantastic projection of a potential, invisible threat in order to secure the hold over their subjects. Rather, the threat was externalized, displaced onto an Outside Enemy. It became the invisible</span> (and, for that reason, all-powerful and omni-present) <span class="cardChar">threat of this enemy that legitimized the existing power structure’s permanent state of emergency</span>. Fascists invoked the threat of the Jewish conspiracy, Stalinists the threat of the class enemy, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Americans the </span></span>threat of Communism-all the way up to today’s <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">“war on terror.” The threats posed by such an invisible enemy legitimizes the logic of the preemptive strike. Precisely because the threat is virtual, one cannot afford to wait for it to come</span></span>. Rather, one must strike in advance, before it is too late. In other words, <span class="cardChar">the omni-present invisible threat of Terror legitimizes the all too visible protective measures of defense-which</span>, of course, are what <span class="cardChar">pose the true threat to democracy and human right</span>s (e.g., the London police’s recent execution of the innocent Brazilian electrician, Jean Charles de Menezes). Classic power functioned as a threat that operated precisely by never actualizing itself, by always remaining a threatening //gesture.// Such functioning reached its climax in the Cold War, when the threat of mutual nuclear destruction //had// to remain a threat. With the “war on terror”, the invisible threat causes the incessant actualization, not of the threat itself, but, of the measures against the threat. The nuclear strike had to remain the threat of a strike, <span class="cardChar">while the threat of the terrorist strike triggers the endless series of preemptive strikes against potential terrorists</span>. <span class="cardChar">We are thus passing from the logic of MAD (Mutually Assured Destruction) to a logic in which ONE SOLE MADMAN runs the entire show and is allowed to enact its paranoia</span>. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The power that presents itself as always being under threat</span></span><span class="cardChar">, </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">living in</span></span><span class="cardChar"> mortal </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">danger, and</span></span><span class="cardChar"> thus </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">merely defending itself, is the most dangerous kind of power-the very model of the Nietzschean ressentiment</span></span><span class="cardChar"> and moralistic hypocrisy.</span> And indeed, it was Nietzsche himself who, more than a century ago, in //Daybreak,// provided the best analysis of the false moral premises of today’s “war on terror”:

//“No government admits any more that it keeps an army to satisfy occasionally the desire for conquest. Rather, the army is supposed to serve for defense, and one invokes the morality that approves of self-defense. But this implies one’s own morality and the neighbor’s immorality; for the neighbor must be thought of as eager to attack and conquer if our state must think of means of self-defense. Moreover, the reasons we give for requiring an army imply that our neighbor, who denies the desire for conquest just as much as our own state, and who, for his part, also keeps an army only for reasons of self-defense, is a hypocrite and a cunning criminal who would like nothing better than to overpower a harmless and awkward victim without any fight. Thus all states are now ranged against each other: they presuppose their neighbor’s bad disposition and their own good disposition. This presupposition, however, is inhumane, as bad as war and worse. At bottom, indeed, it is itself the challenge and the cause of wars, because as I have said, it attributes immorality to the neighbor and thus provokes a hostile disposition and act. We must abjure the doctrine of the army as a means of self-defense just as completely as the desire for conquests.”//Is not the ongoing “war on terror” proof that “terror” is the antagonistic Other of democracy-the point at which democracy’s plural options turn into a singular antagonism? Or, as we so often hear, “In the face of the terrorist threat, we must all come together and forget our petty differences.” More pointedly, the difference between the “war on terror” with previous 20th century worldwide struggles such as the Cold War is that the enemy used to be clearly identified with the 
actually existing Communist empire, whereas <span class="cardChar">today the terrorist threat is inherently spectral, without a visible center. It is a little bit like the description</span> of Linda Fiorentino’s character in //The Last Seduction:// “<span class="cardChar">Most people have a dark side</span> … she had nothing else.” Most regimes have a dark oppressive spectral side … <span class="cardChar">the terrorist threat has nothing else</span>. The paradoxical result of this spectralization of the enemy is an unexpected reflexive reversal. <span class="cardChar">In this world without a clearly identified enemy, it is the United States, the protector against the threat, that is emerging as the main enemy</span>-much like in Agatha Christie’s //Murder on the Orient-Express,// where, since the //entire// group of suspects is the murderer, the victim himself (an evil millionaire) turns out to be the real criminal. 

**Destruction of the military removes the moral immoral binary it creates and can create real peace**
**Nietzsche 1878** Nietzsche, F. Human, All Too Human: A Book for Free Spirits. Translated by R.J. Hollingdale. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, Reprint, 2005. (pg. 380-381)

The means to real peace.— No government nowadays admits that it maintains an army so as to satisfy occasional thirsts for conquest; the army is supposed to be for defense. That morality which sanctions self-protection is called upon to be its advocate. But that means to reserve morality to oneself and to accuse one's neighbor of immorality, since has to be thought of as ready for aggression and conquest if our own state is obliged to take thought of means of self-defense; moreover, when our neighbor denies any thirst for aggression just as heatedly as our state does, and protests that he too maintains an army only for reasons of legitimate self-defense, our declaration of why we require an army declares our neighbor a hypocrite and cunning criminal who would be only too happy to pounce upon a harmless and unprepared victim and subdue him without a struggle. This is how all states now confront one another: they presuppose an evil disposition in their neighbor and a benevolent disposition in themselves. This presupposition, however, is a piece of inhumanity as bad as, if no worse than, a war would be; indeed, fundamentally it already constitutes an invitation to an cause of wars, because, as aforesaid, it imputes immorality to one's neighbor and thereby seems to provoke hostility and hostile acts on his part**. The doctrine of the army as a means of self-defense must be renounced just as completely as the thirst for conquest**. And perhaps there will come a great day on which a nation distinguished for wars and victories and for the highest development of military discipline and thinking, and accustomed to making the heaviest sacrifices on behalf of these things, will cry of its own free will: "we shall shatter the sword"—**and demolish its entire military machine down to its last foundations.** To disarm while being the best armed, out of an elevation of sensibility—that is the means to real peace, which must always rest on a disposition for peace: whereas the so-called armed peace such as now parades about in every country is a disposition to fractiousness which trusts neither itself nor its neighbor and fails to lay down its arms half out of hatred, half out of fear. 
Better to perish than to hate and fear, and twofold better to perish than to make oneself hated and feared—this must one day become the supreme maxim of every individual state! As is well 
known, our liberal representatives of the people lack the time to reflect on the nature of man: otherwise they would know that they labor in vain when they work for a "gradual reduction of the military burden". On the contrary, it is only when this kind of distress is at its greatest that the only kind of god that can help here will be closest at hand. **The tree of the glory of war can be destroyed only at a single stroke, by a lightning-bolt: lightning, however, as you well know, comes out of a cloud and from on high.**


**Contention Two: Suffering**

**<span class="tagChar">Unconfirmed hope fuels the drive to eliminate suffering and any elimination of suffering is fleeting. The truth is that suffering is inexorably tied to existence, it can never be solved merely concealed.</span>**
**Kain 2007** (Philip J. [Professor of Philosophy @ Santa Clara University] //Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence;// The Nietzsche Journal) projectMUSE

Knowledge of the horror of existence kills action—which requires distance and illusion. The horror and meaninglessness of existence must be veiled if we are to live and act. What we must do, Nietzsche thinks, is construct a meaning for suffering. Suffering we can handle. Meaningless suffering, suffering for no reason at all, we cannot handle. So we give suffering a meaning. We invent a meaning. We create an illusion. The Greeks constructed gods for whom wars and other forms of suffering were festival plays and thus an occasion to be celebrated by the poets. Christians imagine a God for whom suffering is punishment for sin (//GM// II:7; cf. //D// 78). One might find all this unacceptable. After all, isn’t it just obvious that we //can// change things, reduce suffering, improve existence, and make progress? Isn’t it just obvious that modern science and technology have done so? Isn’t it just absurd for Nietzsche to reject the possibility of significant change? Hasn’t such change already occurred? Well, perhaps not. Even modern environmentalists might resist all this //obviousness//. They might respond in a rather Nietzschean vein that technology may have caused as many problems as it has solved. The advocate of the perfectible cosmos, on the other hand, would no doubt counter such Nietzschean pessimism by arguing that even if technology does cause some problems, the solution to those problems can only come from better technology. Honesty requires us to admit, however, that this is merely a hope, not something for which we already have evidence, not something that it is absurd to doubt—not at all something obvious. Further technology may or may not improve things. The widespread use of antibiotics seems to have done a miraculous job of improving our health and reducing suffering, but we are also discovering that such antibiotics give rise to even more powerful bacteria that are immune to those antibiotics. We have largely eliminated diseases like cholera, smallpox, malaria, and tuberculosis, but we have produced cancer and heart disease. We can cure syphilis and gonorrhea, but we now have AIDS. Even if we could show that it will be possible to continuously reduce suffering, it is very unlikely that we will ever eliminate it. If that is so, then it remains a real question whether it is not better to face suffering, use it as a discipline, perhaps even increase it, so as to toughen ourselves, rather than let it weaken us, allow it to dominate us, by continually hoping to overcome it. But whatever we think about the possibility of reducing suffering, the question may well become moot. Nietzsche tells a story: “Once upon a time, in some out of the way corner of that universe which is dispersed into numberless twinkling solar systems, there was a star upon which clever beasts invented knowing. That was the most arrogant and mendacious minute of ‘world history,’ but nevertheless, it was only a minute. After nature had drawn a few breaths, the star cooled and congealed, and the clever beasts had to die” (//TL// 1, 79). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Whatever progress we might think we are making in reducing suffering, whatever change we think we are bringing about, it may all amount to nothing more </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">than a brief and accidental moment in biological time, whose imminent disappearance will finally confirm the horror and meaninglessness of </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">existence</span></span>. The disagreement here is not so much about the quantity of suffering that we can expect to find in the world but, rather, its nature. For proponents of the designed cosmos, suffering is basically accidental. It is not fundamental or central to life. It is not a necessary part of the nature of things. It does not make up the essence of existence. We must develop virtue, and then we can basically expect to fit and be at home in the cosmos. For the proponents of a perfectible cosmos, suffering is neither essential nor unessential. The cosmos is neutral. We must work on it to reduce suffering. We must bring about our own fit. For Nietzsche, even if we can change this or that, even if we can reduce suffering here and there, what cannot be changed for human beings is that suffering is fundamental and central to life. The very nature of things, the very essence of existence, means suffering. Moreover, it means meaningless suffering—suffering for no reason at all. That cannot be changed—it can only be concealed.

**Ressentiment means when solving evil people recreate evil within themselves**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite">Deleuze 83</span> (Gilles, Prof of Philosophy @ U of Lyon, Paris, and Lycees, Nietzsche and Philosophy, p. 120-123, AD: 7/9/09) </span>**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">"I am good, therefore you are evil": in the mouths of the masters the word therefore merely introduces a negative conclusion. And this latter is merely advanced as the consequence of a full affirmation: "we the aristocrats, the beautiful, the happy" (GM I 10). In the master everything positive is in the premises. He must have premises of action and affirmation, and the enjoyment of these premises in order to conclude with something negative which is not the main point and has scarcely any importance. It is only an "accessory, a complementary nuance" (GM I 11). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Its only importance is to augment the tenor of the action and the affirmation, to content their alliance and to redouble the corresponding enjoyment: the good "only looks for its antithesis in order to affirm itself with more joy"</span></span> (GM I 10). This is the status of aggression: it is the negative, but the negative as the conclusion of positive premises, the negative as the product of activity, the negative as the consequence of the power of affirming. The master acknowledges himself in a syllogism where two positive propositions are necessary to make a negation, the final negation being only a means of reinforcing the premises — "You are evil therefore I am good." Everything has changed: the negative passes into the premises, the positive is conceived as a conclusion, a conclusion from negative premises. The negative contains the essential and the positive only exists through negation. The negative becomes "the original idea, the beginning, the act par excellence" (GM I 11). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The slave must have premises of reaction and negation, of ressentiment and nihilism, in order to obtain an apparently positive conclusion.</span></span> Even so, it only appears to be positive. This is why Nietzsche insists on distinguishing ressentiment and aggression: they differ in nature. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The man of ressentiment needs to conceive of a non-ego, then to oppose himself to this non-ego in order finally to posit himself as self. This is the strange syllogism of the slave: he needs two negations in order to produce an appearance of affirmation</span></span>. We already sense the form in which the syllogism of the slave has been so successful in philosophy: the dialectic. The dialectic, as the ideology of ressentiment. "<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">You are evil, therefore I am good</span></span>." In this formula it is the slave who speaks. It cannot be denied that values are still being created. But what bizarre values! They begin <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">by positing the other as evil. He who called himself good is the one who is now called evil. This evil one is the one who acts, who does not hold himself back from acting, who does not therefore consider action from the point of view of the consequences that it will have for third parties</span></span>**.** And the one who is good is now the one who holds himself back from acting: <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">he is good just because he refers all actions to the standpoint of the one who does not act</span></span>**,** to the standpoint of the one who experiences the consequences, or better still to the more subtle standpoint of a divine third party who scrutinises the intentions of the one who acts. "<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">And he is good who does not outrage, who harms nobody, who does not attack, who does not requite, who leaves revenge to God, who keeps himself hidden as we do, who avoids evil </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and desires little from life, like us, the patient, humble and just</span></span>" (GM I 13 p. 46). This is how good and evil are born: ethical determination, that of good and bad, gives way to moral judgment. The good of ethics has become the evil of morality, the had has become the good of morality. Good and evil are not the good and the bad but, on the contrary, the exchange, the inversion, the reversal of their determination. Nietzsche stresses the following point: "<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Beyond good and evil</span></span>**"** does not mean: "Beyond the good and the bad", on the contrary ... (GM I 17). Good and evil are new values, but how strangely these values are created! They <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">are created by reversing good and bad.</span></span> They are not created by acting but by holding back from acting, not by affirming, but by beginning with denial. This is why they are called un-created, divine, transcendent, superior to life. But think of what these values hide, of their mode of creation. They hide an extraordinary hatred, a hatred for life, a hatred for all that is active and affirmative in life. No moral values would survive for a single instant if they were separated from the premises of which they are the conclusion. And, more profoundly, no religious values are separable from this hatred and revenge from which they draw the consequences. The positivity of religion is only apparent: they conclude that the wretched, the poor, the weak, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the slaves, are the good since the strong are "evil" and "damned". They have invented</span></span> the good wretch, the good weakling: there is no better revenge against the strong and happy. What would Christian love be without the Judaic power of ressentiment which inspires and directs it? Christian love is not the opposite of Judaic ressentiment but its consequence, its conclusion and its crowning glory (GM 1 8). Religion conceals the principles from which it is directly descended to a greater or lesser extent (and often, in periods of crisis, it no longer conceals anything at all); <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the weight of negative premises, the spirit of revenge, the power of ressentiment.</span></span> </span>

**Contention Three: Ontology**

**The ontology of humanity is no different form the natural world, we must understand ourselves restricting metaphysical justifications for morals**

Martin **Drenthen, 99**Assistant Professor of Philosophy Dept of Philosophy and Science Studies, and Centre for Genomics and Society ISIS, Faculty of Science Radboud University of Nijmegen Environmental Ethics, vol. 21, nr. 2 (1999), p. 163-175 The Paradox of Environmental Ethics. “Nietzsche’s View of Nature and the Wild” 
Nietzsche argues that each moral engagement with nature requires a conceptual identification of nature which can, in the end, be conceived as a violent exclusion of alternative explanations. According to Nietzsche, interpretation is essentially will-to-power. Nevertheless, ‘nature’is still a key concept in his philosophy, contrary to most postmodern theories. I will try to explain this. Nietzsche’s philosophy is naturalistic in a radical sense. He argues that human beings are an integral part of nature, and should therefore understand themselves naturalistically. Nietzsche has strong methodological objections against **‘metaphysical’ explanations of ourselves as moral beings that presuppose a non-natural** ‘miraculous **source’ of morality**. He explains all different aspects of human existence as symptoms of an underlying natural process. Nietzsche defines human beings as ‘yet undetermined animals’. **The essence of human beings is — to put it paradoxically — that they have no essence**. Unlike other animals, human beings can compose their lives in many ways. Moreover, moral interpretations of reality differ throughout history and within different cultures. Nietzsche emphasizes that there are numerous possible articulations of moral meaning in reality. However, **moral values necessarily pretend to be more than contingent.** Other than judgments of taste, moral judgments pretend not just to say something about the valuing subject, but also about what is the case with the matter that is being valued. But because of this absolute (ontological) claim, each morality suppresses other moral interpretations. While morality restricts human nature, the same can be said regarding all nature. Within a particular morality, nature can only be perceived in a particular way. As seen from the viewpoint of nature, morality is a violent restriction of nature’s expressiveness. This is even true for an 
environmentalistic morality. On the other hand: morality occurs naturally within human nature. According to Nietzsche, morality is the naturally occurring ‘organization’ between different passions and impulses within ourselves. Nietzsche argues that our passions and instincts have to be understood both as physical forces and as interpretive entities. He introduces the concept of ‘will to power’ to provide the physical concept of ‘force’with an inner side. The struggle between passions within human nature can therefore be regarded as a struggle between different interpretations. Because Nietzsche’s vantage point is that human nature is not different from nature as a whole, nature as a whole can be seen as a struggle between several instances of ‘will to power’. According to Nietzsche, morality is the total outcome of the struggle for power between these different interpreting forces in human nature. As a result, each particular morality is a particular interpretation and disciplining of human nature and, consequently, nature as a whole. However, because each particular organization is contingent, it reflects just one possibility. 

**Human morality is not intrinsic and not natural, it only creates self-hate and suffering**
**Saurette, 96** [Paul, Associate Professor of Social Sciences at University of Ottawa, “ ’I Mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them': Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory,” Millenium: Journal of International Studies 25:1]

According to Nietzsche, the philosophical foundation of a society is the set of ideas which give meaning to the phenomenon of human existence within a given cultural framework. As one manifestation of the Will to Power, this will to meaning fundamentally influences the social and political organisation of a particular community.' Anything less than a profound historical interrogation of the most basic philosophical foundations of our civilization, then, misconceives the origins of values which we take to be intrinsic and natural. Nietzsche suggests, therefore, that to understand the development of our modern conception of society and politics, we must reconsider the crucial influence of the Platonic formulation of Socratic thought. Nietzsche claims that pre-Socratic Greece based its philosophical justification of life on heroic myths which honoured tragedy and competition. Life was understood as a contest in which both the joyful and ordered (Apollonian) and chaotic and suffering (Dionysian) aspects of life were accepted and affirmed as inescapable aspects of human existence.' However, this incarnation of the will to power as tragedy weakened, and became unable to sustain meaning in Greek life. Greek myths no longer instilled the self-respect and self-control that had upheld the pre-Socratic social order. 'Everywhere the instincts were in anarchy; everywhere people were but five e steps from excess: the monstrum in animo was a universal danger'.' No longer willing to accept the tragic hardness and self-mastery of pre-Socratic myth, Greek thought yielded to decadence, a search for a new social foundation which would soften the tragedy of life, while still giving meaning to existence. In this context, Socrates' thought became paramount. In the words of Nietzsche, Socrates saw behind his aristocratic Athenians; he grasped that his case, the idiosyncrasy of his case, was no longer exceptional. The same kind of degeneration was everywhere silently preparing itself: the old Athens was coming to an end—And Socrates understood that the world had need of him —his expedient, his cure and his personal art of self-preservation.' Socrates realised that his search for an ultimate and eternal intellectual standard paralleled the widespread yearning for assurance and stability within society. His expedient, his cure? An alternative will to power. An alternate foundation that promised mastery and control, not through acceptance of the tragic life, but through the disavowal of the instinctual, the contingent, and the problematic. In response to the failing power of its foundational myths, Greece tried to renounce the very experience that had given rise to tragedy by retreating/escaping into the Apollonian world promised by Socratic reason. In Nietzsche's words, 'Nationality was divined as a saviour—it was their last expedient. The fanaticism with which the whole of Greek thought throws itself at rationality betrays a state of emergency: one was in peril, one had only one choice: either to perish, or be absurdly rational....' Thus, Socrates codified the wider fear of instability into an intellectual framework. The Socratic Will to Truth is characterised by the attempt to understand and order life rationally by renouncing the Dionysian elements of existence and privileging an idealised Apollonian order. As life is inescapably comprised of both order and disorder, however, the promise of control through Socratic reason is only possible by creating a 'Real World' of eternal and meaningful forms, in opposition to an 'Apparent World' of transitory physical existence. Suffering and contingency is contained within the Apparent World, disparaged, devalued, and ignored in relation to the ideal order of the Real World. Essential to the Socratic Will to Truth, then, is the fundamental contradiction between the experience of Dionysian suffering in the Apparent World and the idealised order of the Real World. According to Nietzsche, this dichotomised model led to the emergence of a uniquely 'modern' understanding of life which could only view suffering as the result of the imperfection of the Apparent World. This outlook created a modern notion of responsibility in which the Dionysian elements of life could be understood only as a phenomenon for which someone, or something, is to blame. Nietzsche terms this philosophically-induced condition ressentiment, and argues that it signalled a potential crisis of the Will to Truth by exposing the central contradiction of the Socratic resolution. This contradiction, however, was resolved historically through the aggressive universalisation of the Socratic ideal by Christianity. According to Nietzsche, ascetic Christianity exacerbated the Socratic dichotomisation by employing the Apparent World as the responsible agent against which the ressentiment of life could be turned. Blame for suffering fell on individuals within the Apparent World, precisely because they did not live up to God, the Truth, and the Real World. As Nietzsche wrote, `I suffer: someone must be to blame for it' thinks every sickly sheep. But his shepherd, the ascetic priest tells him: 'Quite so my sheep! someone must be to blame for it: but you yourself are this someone, you alone are to blame for yourself,- you alone are to blame for yourself—This is brazen and false enough: but one thing is achieved by it, the direction of ressentiment is altered." Faced with the collapse of the Socratic resolution and the prospect of meaninglessness, once again, 'one was in peril, one had only one choice: either to perish, or be absurdly rational....' The genius of the ascetic ideal was that it preserved the meaning of the Socratic Will to Power as Will to Truth by extrapolating ad absurdium the Socratic division through the redirection of ressentiment against the Apparent World! Through this redirection, the Real World was transformed from a transcendental world of philosophical escape into a model towards which the Apparent World actively aspired, always blaming its contradictory experiences on its own imperfect knowledge and action. This subtle transformation of the relationship between the dichotomised worlds creates the Will to Order as the defining characteristic of the modern Will to Truth. Unable to accept the Dionysian suffering inherent in the Apparent World, the ascetic ressentiment desperately searches for 'the hypnotic sense of nothingness, the repose of deepest sleep, in short absence of suffering'.` According to the ascetic model, however, this escape is possible only when the Apparent World perfectly duplicates the Real World. The Will to Order, then, is the aggressive need increasingly to order the Apparent World in line with the precepts of the moral Truth of the Real World. The ressentiment of the Will to Order, therefore, generates two interrelated reactions. First, ressentiment engenders a need actively to mould the Apparent World in accordance with the dictates of the ideal, Apollonian Real World. In order to achieve this, however, the ascetic ideal also asserts that a 'truer', more complete knowledge of the Real World must be established, creating an ever-increasing Will to Truth. This self-perpetuating movement creates an interpretative structure within which everything must be understood and ordered in relation to the ascetic Truth of the Real World. As Nietzsche suggests, [t]he ascetic ideal has a goal—this goal is so universal that all other interests of human existence seem, when compared with it, petty and narrow; it interprets epochs, nations, and men inexorably with a view to this one goal; it permits no other interpretation, no other goal; it rejects, denies, affirms and sanctions solely from the point of view of its interpretation:4 The very structure of the Will to Truth ensures that theoretical investigation must be increasingly ordered, comprehensive, more True, and closer to the perfection of the ideal. At the same time, this understanding of intellectual theory ensures that it creates practices which attempt to impose increasing order in the Apparent World. With this critical transformation, the Will to Order becomes the fundamental philosophical principle of modernity.


**<span style="color: black;">Contention Four: Autonomy</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">The state cannot grant us freedoms—it can only make us into a homogenous herd. Real individuality must maintain distance from institutions. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Brown, 2000 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Wendy, Distinguished Professor of Philosophy, Princeton University and UC Berkeley Humanities Fellow “Nietzsche for Politics” in “Why Nietzsche Still?” Edited by Alan Schrift, pg. 218)</span>

<span style="color: black;">This appreciation of- not simply hierarchy—as culturally invigorating emerges in Nietzsche's characterization of freedom as "the will to self-responsibility" that "preserves the distance which divides us" </span>//<span style="color: black;">(Tl </span>//<span style="color: black;">"Skirmishes" 3H). Thus, like Foucault, Nietzsche's complaint against modern politics is that it excessively organizes and institutionalizes human relations: it dissolves our separateness even as it fabricates us as "individuals"; it throws us into proximity in a fashion that mutes our own capacity to express responsibility, creativity, and hence freedom, Like Rousseau, Nietzsche regards mass social intercourse and the institutions that perpetuate it as the enemy of discerning sensibility. In this regard, tolerance, one of democracy's proudest virtues, emerges as a symptom of its baseness. To put up with men, to keep open house in one's heart-this is liberal, but no more than liberal. One knows hearts which are capable of //noble// hospitality, which have curtained windows and closed shutters: they keep their best rooms empty ... because they await guests with whom one does //not// have to "put up." </span>//<span style="color: black;">(TI </span>//<span style="color: black;">"Skirmishes" 25) In short, **Nietzsche regards political life, especially modern political life, as harboring values and spawning institutions that displace and discourage individual and collective aspiration, creativity, distinction, and culture. The state is "organized immorality," a "tremendous machine" that "overpowers the individual" and substitutes for it a mechanical individualism in which all are reduced to units** (WP 717,718). Parties arc for unthinking followers-"whoever thinks much is not suitable as a party member: he soon thinks himself right through the party" //(HH// </span>//<span style="color: black;">579). </span>//<span style="color: black;">And political doctrines are mostly justifications of and for the weak against the strong but also of the rational against the Dionysian, in either case issuing from //ressentiment// </span>//<span style="color: black;">(Tl </span>//<span style="color: black;">"Ancients" 4). While Nietzsche concedes a potentially synergistic relation between politics and culture when the former itself partakes of "greatness" (Periclean Athens is the ambivalent example to which he frequently recurs), politics is more often cast as the enemy of culture. </span>

**True democratic values arise from accepting those we fear and respecting difference, obligation to otherness**
**Hatab, 02** (Prospects For A Democratic Agon: Why We Can Still Be Nietzscheans, Lawrence J. Hatab, The Journal of Nietzsche Studies 24 (2002) 132-147, Professor of Philosophy and Religious Studies, Old Dominion University). 

I think that Nietzsche's attack on democracy ought to be challenged, but not by reasserting democratic traditions, but by showing that much of Nietzsche's cultural and philosophical outlook is compatible with, even constitutive of, much of democratic politics. So the distinction between cultural and political spheres allows us to challenge some of Nietzsche's political vision; but overlaps between the spheres show that Nietzsche's authoritarianism is weakened by his own philosophical orientation, and that democratic political life can exhibit certain creative, nonegalitarian, and agonistic elements to a degree that may warrant calling it Nietzschean enough to support a democratic appropriation of Nietzsche (thus answering Appel's challenge). Assuming that politics should not be restricted and reserved for an elite, but open to the participation of all citizens, can we retain a sense of respect and political rights in appropriating Nietzsche for democracy? I think so. In fact, Nietzschean conceptions of agonistics and nonfoundational openness can go a long way toward articulating and defending democratic practices without the problems attaching to traditional principles of equality. If political respect implies inclusiveness and an open regard for the rightful participation of others, an agonistic model of politics can underwrite respect without the need for substantive conceptions of equality or even something like "equal regard." I have already mentioned that agonistics can be seen as a fundamentally social phenomenon. Since the self is formed in and through tensional relations with others, then any annulment of my Other would be an annulment of myself. Radical agonistics, then, discounts the idea of sheer autonomy and self-constitution. Such a tensional sociality can much more readily affirm the place of the Other in social relations than can modern models of subject-based freedom. Moreover, the structure of an agon conceived as a contest can readily underwrite political principles of fairness. Not only do I need an Other to prompt my own achievement, but the significance of any "victory" I might achieve demands an able opponent. As in athletics, defeating an incapable or incapacitated competitor winds up being meaningless. So I should not only will the presence of others in an agon, I should also want that they be able adversaries, that they have opportunities and capacities to succeed in the contest. And I should be able to honor the winner of a fair contest. Such is the logic of competition that contains a host of normative features, which might even include active provisions for helping people in political contests become more able participants. 25 In addition, agonistic respect need not be associated with something like positive regard or equal worth, a dissociation that can go further in 
facing up to actual political conditions and problematic connotations that can attach to liberal dispositions. Again allow me to quote my previous work. Democratic respect forbids exclusion, it demands inclusion; but respect for the Other as other can avoid a vapid sense of "tolerance," a sloppy "relativism," or a misplaced spirit of "neutrality." Agonistic respect allows us to simultaneously affirm our beliefs and affirm our opponents as worthy competitors in public discourse. Here we can speak of respect without ignoring the fact that politics involves perpetual disagreement, and we have an adequate answer to the question "Why should I respect a view that I do not agree with?" In this way beliefs about what is best (aristos) can be coordinated with an openness to other beliefs and a willingness to accept the outcome of an open competition among the full citizenry (demos). Democratic respect, therefore, is a dialogical mixture of affirmation and negation, a political bearing that entails giving all beliefs a hearing, refusing any belief an ultimate warrant, and perceiving one's own viewpoint as agonistically implicated with opposing viewpoints. In sum, we can combine 1) the historical tendency of democratic movements to promote free expression, pluralism, and liberation from traditional constraints, and 2) a Nietzschean perspectivism and agonistic respect, to arrive at a postmodern model of democracy that provides both a nonfoundational openness and an atmosphere of civil political discourse. 

**Contention Five: Solvency**

**The embrace of suffering breaks it psychological strong hold and destroys the surplus suffering that it creates. Embracement results in empowerment**
**Kain 2007** (Philip J. [Professor of Philosophy @ Santa Clara University] //Nietzsche, Eternal Recurrence, and the Horror of Existence;// The Nietzsche Journal) projectMUSE

Eternal recurrence brings the Übermensch as close as possible to the truth, meaninglessness, the void, but it does not go all the way or it would crush even the Übermensch. Eternal recurrence gives the Übermensch meaning. It eliminates emptiness. It fills the void. With what? It fills it with something totally familiar and completely known; with something that is in no way new, different, or strange; with something that is not at all frightening. It fills the void with one’s //own// life—repeated eternally. It is true that this life is a life of suffering, but (given the horror of existence) suffering cannot be avoided anyway, and at least suffering has been stripped of any surplus suffering brought about by concepts of sin, punishment, or guilt. It has been reduced to a life of innocence. Moreover, as Nietzsche has said, it is only meaningless suffering that is the problem. If given a meaning, even suffering becomes something we can seek (//GM// III:28). Eternal recurrence, the fatedness of suffering, its meaningless repetition, makes our suffering innocent. That might well be reason enough to embrace it. Or, although //we// may not be able to embrace it ourselves, I think we can at least see why Nietzsche might—and even why it might //make sense// for him to do so. Eternal recurrence also gives suffering another meaning. **If one is able to embrace eternal recurrenc**e, if one is able to turn all “it was” into a “thus I willed it,” **then one** not only reduces suffering to physical suffering, **breaks its psycho- logical stranglehold**, **and eliminates surplus suffering related to guilt, but one may even in a sense reduce suffering below the level of physical suffering**. One does not do this as the liberal, socialist, or Christian would, by changing the world to reduce suffering. In Nietzsche’s opinion that is impossible, and, indeed, eternal recurrence of the same rules it out—at least as any sort of final achievement.23 Rather, physical suffering is reduced by treating it as a test, a discipline, a training, which brings one greater power. One might think of an athlete who engages in more and more strenuous activity, accepts greater and greater pain, handles it better and better, and sees this as a sign of greater strength, as a sign of increased ability. Pain and suffering are turned into empowerment. Indeed, it is possible to love such suffering as a sign of increased power. One craves pain—“//more// pain! //more// pain!” (//GM//III:20). And the more suffering one can bear, the stronger one becomes. If suffering is self-imposed, if the point is to break the psychological stranglehold it has over us, if the point is to turn suffering into empowerment, use 
it as a discipline to gain greater strength, then it would be entirely inappropriate for us to feel sorry for the sufferer. To take pity on the sufferer either would demonstrate an ignorance of the process the sufferer is engaged in, what the sufferer is attempting to accomplish through suffering, or would show a lack of respect for the sufferer’s suffering (//GS// 338; //D// 135). To pity the sufferer, to wish the sufferer did not have to go through such suffering, would demean the sufferer and the whole process of attempting to gain greater strength through such suffering

**We should abandon our desire for mastery over the world with a throw of the dice.**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite">Deleuze 83</span> (Gilles, Prof of Philosophy @ U of Lyon, Paris, and Lycees, Nietzsche and Philosophy, p. 25-27, AD: 7/8/09)** jl</span>

The game has two moments which are those of a dicethrow — the dice that is thrown and the dice that falls back. Nietzsche presents the dicethrow as taking place on two distinct tables, the earth and the sky. The earth where the dice are thrown and the sky where the dice fall back: "if ever I have played dice with the gods at their table, the earth, so that the earth trembled and broke open and streams of fire snorted forth; for the earth is a table of the gods, and trembling with creative new words and the dice throws of the gods" (Z III "The Seven Seals" 3 p. 245). "0 sky above me, you pure and lofty sky! This is now your purity to me, that there is no eternal reason-spider and spider's web in you; that you are to me a dance floor for divine chances, that you are to me a god's table for divine dice and dicers" (Z III "Before Sunrise" p. 186). But these two tables are not two worlds. They are the two hours of a single world, the two moments of a single world, midnight and midday, the hour when the dice are thrown, the hour when the dice fall back. Nietzsche insists on the two tables of life which are also the two moments of the player or the artist; "<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">We temporarily abandon life, in order to then temporarily fix our gaze upon it."</span></span> **<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The dicethrow affirms becoming and it affirms the being of becoming. It is not a matter of several dicethrows which, because of their number, finally reproduce the same combination.</span></span>** On the contrary, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">it is a matter of a single dicethrow which</span></span>**,** due to the number of the combination produced, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">comes to reproduce itself as such</span></span>. It is not that a large number of throws produce the repetition of a combination but rather the number of the combination which produces the repetition of the dicethrow. The dice which are thrown once are the affirmation of chance, the combination which they form on falling is the affirmation of necessity. Necessity is affirmed of chance in exactly the sense that being is affirmed of becoming and unity is affirmed of multiplicity. It will be replied, in vain, that thrown to chance, the dice do not necessarily produce the winning combination, the double six which brings back the dicethrow. This is true, but only insofar as the player did not know how to affirm chance from the outset. For, just as unity does not suppress or deny multiplicity, necessity does not suppress or abolish chance. Nietzsche identifies chance with multiplicity, with fragments, with parts, with chaos: the chaos of the dice that are shaken and then thrown. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Nietzsche turns chance into an affirmation</span></span>**.** The sky itself is called "chance-sky", "innocence-sky" (Z III "Before Sunrise"); the reign of Zarathustra is called "great chance" (Z IV "The Honey Offering" and III "Of Old and New Law Tables"; Zarathustra calls himself the "redeemer of chance"). "By chance, he is the world's oldest nobility, which I have given back to all things; I have released them from their servitude under purpose . . . I have found this happy certainty in all things: that they prefer to dance on the feet of chance" (Z III "Before Sunrise" p. 186); "My doctrine is `Let chance come to me: it is as innocent as a little child!' " (Z III "On the Mount of Olives" p. 194). What Nietzsche calls necessity (destiny) is thus never the abolition but rather the combination of chance itself. Necessity is affirmed of chance in as much as chance itself affirmed. For there is only a single combination of chance as such, a single way of combining all the parts of chance, a way which is like the unity of multiplicity, that is to say number or necessity. There are many numbers with increasing or decreasing probabilities, but only one number of chance as such, one fatal number which reunites all the fragments of chance, like midday gathers together the scattered parts of midnight. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This is why it is sufficient for the player to affirm chance once in order to produce the number which brings back the dicethrow</span></span>**.** **22 <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">To know how to affirm chance is to know how to play.</span></span>** But we do not know how to play, "Timid, ashamed, awkward, like a tiger whose leap has failed. But what of that you dicethrowers! You have not learned to play and mock as a man ought to play and mock!" (Z IV "Of the Higher Man" 14 p. 303). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The bad player counts on several throws of the dice, on a great number of throws. In this way he makes use of causality and probability to produce a combination that he sees as desirable.</span></span> He posits this combination itself as an end to be obtained, hidden behind causality. This is what Nietzsche means when he speaks of the eternal spider, of the spider's web of reason, "A kind of spider of imperative and finality hidden behind the great web, the great net of causality — we could say, with Charles the Bold when he opposed Louis XI, "I fight the universal spider" (GM III 9). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">To abolish chance by holding it in the grip of causality and finality, to count on the repetition of throws rather than affirming chance, to anticipate a result instead of affirming necessity — these are all the operations of a bad player</span></span>. They have 
their root in reason, but what is the root of reason? The spirit of revenge, nothing but the spirit of revenge, the spider (Z II "Of the Tarantulas"). Ressentiment in the repetition of throws, bad conscience in the belief in a purpose. But, in this way, all that will ever be obtained are more or less probable relative numbers. That <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the universe has no purpose, that it has no end to hope for any more than it has causes to be known — this is the certainty necessary to play well</span></span> **(VP III 465). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The dicethrow fails because chance has not been affirmed enough in one throw. It has not been affirmed enough in order to produce the fatal number which necessarily reunites all the fragments and brings back the dicethrow. </span></span>**We must therefore attach the greatest importance to the following conclusion: for the couple causality-finality, probability-finality, for the opposition and the synthesis of these terms, for the web of these terms, Nietzsche substitutes the Dionysian correlation of chance necessity, the Dionysian couple chance-destiny. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Not a probability distributed over several throws but all chance at once; not a final, desired, willed combination, but the fatal combination, fatal and loved, amor fati; not the return of a combination by the number of throws, but the repetition of a dicethrow by the nature of the fatally obtained number</span></span>

**Politics of pessimism can deflate current conceptions of the perfectibility of our species and opens up the limitless horizon**
**Dienstag, 2004** (Joshua Foe, PhD. in polsci from Princeton, "Tragedy, Pessimism, Nietzsche," New Literary History 34:1, Johns Hopkins Literary Press, Project Muse

The politics of pessimism and tragedy, then, even on an account that insists on some traditional boundaries of genre, are not at all those of reaction or elitism. Indeed, democratic politics require the tragic viewpoint if they are to liberate themselves from the dubious optimistic meta-narratives of modernity. It is this element of Nietzsche's outlook, I would argue, that has so appealed to the contemporary democratic theorists whose work I have hastily described. Pessimism insists on an equality of (tragic) condition; on the ubiquity of flux and eros that frame this condition; on the possibilities and dangers that follow from this; and on the uniqueness of every individual. It does chasten politics in that it discourages utopianism; it discounts the belief either in the perfectibility of the species or of our political conditions. But to claim that it deflates our political energies in general is to mistake utopianism for the whole of politics. I have argued, on the contrary, that tragic pessimism liberates us by replacing the pseudo-natural boundaries of self and history with the terrifying limitless horizon of time-bound existence. 

**PLAN TEXT:**
**As a process of destroying the tree of the glory of war, with the power of a lightening-bolt from a cloud on high Drew and I affirm that**

**United States federal government should eliminate its military and police presence from all topically designated countries.**

==South Korean Prostitution== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from the Republic of Korea.**

**Contention One: The Status Quo**

**Although the U.S. has a zero tolerance policy on prostitution soldiers continue to abuse Korean sex-workers. Because of legal status soldiers can get away with anything, even murder**
**Dujisin 9**, (Zoltan, July 7 2009, “Prostitution Thrives with US Military Presence”, Inter Press Service News Agency, http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556) Since 1945, U.S. troops …forced these places to minimize their visibility.

**The voices of abused Korean prostitutes are silenced by military presence, only removal solves**
**Kirk and Okazawa-rey 1998**-(writers for The Women and War Reader, “Making Connections Building an East Asia-U.S. Women’s Network against U.S. Militarism” New York University Press. http://www.gwynkirk.net/pdf/making_connections_paper.pdf) Participants shared the view ….covered up.

**AND, any regulatory policies will fail**
**Human Rights Examiner, 2/8/10** U.S. military anti-prostitution/sex trafficking policy appears to be ineffective” http://www.examiner.com/x-24740-Norfolk-Human-Rights-Examiner~y2010m2d8-US-military-personals-creates-demand-for-sex-trafficking-in-South-Korea, IA
Thriving demand for prostitution …..members on such misconducts as serious crimes.


**Contention Two: Structural Violence**
**We will isolate Several internal links**
**One: is Securitization**

**The US Military furthers racist and gendered notions of culture onto Korean women to maintain a permanent underclass in Korea**
**Moon 09** - Wellesley College professor (Katharine H.S. “Military Prostitution and the U.S. Military in Asia” in The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus. Posted on January 17, 2009. http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/margins-to-centre/2009-January/001668.html)
Where there are soldiers, there ….center, Ho Chi Minh City, 1992.


**Any marginalization of the harms of the Korean prostitutes sacrifices feminine integrity for national security**
Katherine H.S. **Moon**, Chair of Asian Studies at Wellesley College, **1997** Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S.-Korea Relations pg. p. 10-11, IA
The disregarding of ….about the need for and the role of U.S. troops and bases in the two countries' bilateral relations.

**Two: Is racism**

**The abuse of prostitutes by military personal is sustained by racist depictions on Asian**
**Moon 97** – Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, Department of Political Science and Edith Stix Wasserman Chair of Asian Studies (Katherine, “Sex among Allies” 1997, p. 33-35,)
In Olongapo and Angeles in the ….States for work in massage parlors and brothels.

**Continued colonialist racism contributes to immeasurable dehumanization and death**
**Nobel Peace Prize** laureate, Archbishop Desmond Tutu 5 September **2001**
Ecumenical caucus statement at World Conference Against Racism http://www.oikoumene.org/index.php?id=2442.)
Racism dehumanizes, ….past and present


**And, the systemic impacts of the affirmative far outweigh any manifestation of international conflict. Prioritizing the event of war over resistance to the systemic roots of the affirmative facilitates collective complacency and distracts attention from the broader effort to redress the harms of the status quo.**
**Cuomo, 1996**. [Chris, J. War is not just an event: Reflections on the significance of everyday violence, Hypatia, Vol. 11, no. 4, pg. proquest]
Philosophical attention to war has typically appeared in the form of justifications for entering into war, and ….connections among them.

**Contention Three: Intersectional Views**

**Korean prostitution represents a unique intersection of colonial power, patriarchy, and class based discrimination**
**Pyong** Gap Min. Professor of Sociology at Queens College, December '**03**. "Comfort Women": The Intersection of Colonial Power, Gender, and Class. http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/3594678.pdf, IA
The victimization of Korean ….cause cannot fully explain the suffering of the Korean victims of sexual slavery.

**Intersectionality is critical for the framing of violence against prostitutes—critiques of essentialism don’t solve**
Kimberlé Williams **Crenshaw**, Professor of Law at UCLA, 19**91** “Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics, and Violence Against Women of Color”pg. 1-2, IA
This article has ….this critique sometimes misreads the meaning of social construction and distorts its political relevance.

**Contention Four: Solvency**

**Military violence is neither natural nor inevitable—war is sustained by gendered systems of identity like military prostitution**
**Enloe 93** – Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of the Cold War” p. 245-248, )
Conquerors' mistresses, wartime ….as the most analytically interesting.

**Nuclear and military actions viewed as masculine—in order to break the cycle of war, one must move away from gendered discourse**
Eric **Blanchard**, PhD Candidate in the School of International. Relations at USC, Summer **2003**, “Gender, International Relations, and the Development of Feminist Security Theory” JSTOR, p. 1293-4, IA
Jean Bethke Elshtain's rich ….of "feminine" ideas, Cohn suggests that the task ahead is a revaluation of gender discourse (1993).

**And, err on the side of probable impacts - their so called experts don’t understand the future of political affairs and cannot accurately predict events**
**Menand 2005** (Louis ,phd Colombia and Robert M. and Anne T. Bass Professor of English and American Literature and Language at Harvard University., The New Yorker, 12-05-2005, http://www.newyorker.com/critics/content/articles/051205crbo_books1 )
Prediction is one of the pleasures of life. …of raising the standard.

**Feminist discourse creates the space for social change**
J. Ann **Tickner** (professor of international relations at USC) **2001**, Gendering World Politics. Pp. 144-145.
Claiming that discourse ….or testing a hypothesis.

**Representations shape the way in which policies are formed**
**Bleiker 3** (Roland, Poly Sci @ U of Queensland, Australian Journal of Politics and History: Volume 49, No. 3, 2003 pp. 430-445)
Such a critical engagement must start …. fight against it.

===2AC Fem IR - K of Dis-Ad=== 
**Peace is the overall concept of security. Dangers are the product of our own actions forcing peace threats to become risks of security.**

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Waever</span>**//<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">—</span>//**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">Ph.D. in Political Science and Professor of International Relations at COPRI </span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">–</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 14pt;">20__0<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">4</span>__</span> <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13pt;">(Ole, “Peace and Security”, Contemporary Security Analysis and Copenhagen Peace Research, pg.62-63)</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> After the end of the Cold War….. subversive agenda.</span>



**The affirmative’s magnitude-oriented impact calculus relies on the privileged standpoint of gender – true security comes with the elimination of structural, gendered violence**

J. Ann <span class="Author-Date">__Tickner__</span>, Prof of IR at USC, M.A. Yale and Ph.D Brandeis, <span class="Author-Date">__’92__</span>, “Gender in International Relations: Feminist Perspectives on Achieving International Security,” 54-5

At the Women's International Peace ……__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">comprehensive <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">definition of security</span>. </span></span>__



**A feminist perspective on human rights can reconstruct perspectives and prevent the problem**

Brooke A. <span class="Author-Date">Ackerly</span>, Associatie Professor of Political Science at Vanderbilt University, 20<span class="Author-Date">08</span>, “Universal Human Rights in A World of Difference,” p. 38-9

This view of immanent …..affect longterm human rights conditions.

==Human Terrain Teams Aff== 

Contention One: Expanding Knowledge of the Human Terrain

After recent pentagon expansion of Human Terrain Teams there is now a team for every brigade in Iraq and Afghanistan
Anthropologists on the front line. By: Gusterson, Hugh, New Scientist,
02624079, 8/2/2008, Vol. 199, Issue 2667
DURING the cold war, ……can trust (and, presumably, whom they cannot).

Contention Two: Manipulating the Human Terrain
Human Terrain System shows that anthropology is - an intelligence tool used to manipulate culture through torture - a militarized academic tool - If we create resolutions against these actions we can amplify the dialogue and DIRECTLY CONFRONT militarization and cultural torture
Roberto J Gonzalez, ‘7 – associate professor of anthropology at San Jose State University, “We Must Fight the Militarization of Anthropology,” Chronicle of Higher Education, 2-2, http://chronicle.com/weekly/v53/i22/22b02001.htm
When students take introductory ……the history of the American academy.

In 2005, Montgomery McFate renewed the call for incorporating anthropology into national security strategy. This reinvigorated the “handmaiden of colonialism,” a strategy used throughout history to force colonial dominance through repression. It uses coercion and manipulation to produce political instability and calls for global military power.
This isn’t flowery K rhetoric – it’s McFate’s stated justification for the program.
Montgomery McFate, ‘5 – Cultural anthropologist and a defense policy fellow at the Office of Naval Research working on an initiative to promote social science research in the national security area. “The Military Utility of Understanding Adversary Culture,”, Issue 38, http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/jel/jfq_pubs/1038.pdf.
Back to the Future ……working with the Montagnards.

Human Terrain Teams use anthropology to weponize culture; this objectifies and dehumanizes culture and people
Ryan Toews York University Socialist Studies: the Journal of the Society for Socialist Studies 5(2) Fall 2009: 146-148 Copyright © 2009 The Author(s)
Gonzalez does not, it seems, ……..demilitarize American society.

We will isolate several Impacts

First is Militarization

Militarism must be resisted – intensifying patterns guarantee human extinction
István Mészáros, ‘3 – Professor Emeritus at the University of Sussex, The Monthly Review, June 2003, http://monthlyreview.org/0603meszaros.htm
The dangers and immense……. look like the model of rationality.

Human Terrain represents the brink of militarism in academia, allowing Human Terrain kills our ability to question imperialism
Ryan Toews York University Socialist Studies: the Journal of the Society for Socialist Studies 5(2) Fall 2009: 146-148 Copyright © 2009 The Author(s)
It is undoubtedly …….social science knowledge.

Second is Torture
Complacency with torture and reactionary colonial politics to terrorism represent an epistemology which treats individuals as valuable only insofar as they maintain the dominant view of utility – this enables the total securitization of everyday life
Nate Gorelick, ‘8 – PhD Student in Comparative Literature @ SUNY-Buffalo, Former CEDA Champion @ NYU, “Imagining Extraordinary Renditions,” Theory and Event, Volume 11, Number 2, 2008
But if torture operates …..erased or exterminated with impunity.

Rejection of the total securitization of thought and ontological horizon is the only alternative to ecocide, genocide, and WMD war
Dillon, ‘96 (Michael, Prof@Lancaster, Politics of Security, p. 2)
Thought is therefore required if …….remains largely unthought.

It’s try or die for the Aff – securitized thought is a self-justifying epistemology which creates the advent for the real possibility of human extinction
Dillon 96 (Michael, Routledge Publishers, Prof@Lancaster, Questia, Politics of security: towards a political philosophy of continental thought p. 15)
What truths about the …….species extinction.

Contention Three: Framing
Human terrain creates a triangulation between “us” – researchers, “them” – the military and civilian experts and “the others” – the indigenous subjects. Innate asymmetries of power and knowledge ensure that the academic to power is transformed from intellectual to informant
Der Derian, ’10. James, Prof of IR @ Brown, Famous K Author, Co-Director of Human Terrain. “Now We Are All Avatars,” Millennium: Journal of International Studies 39(1) 181–186, 8-24, http://www.watsoninstitute.org/images_news/derderianj_2010_8_24.pdf
Our documentary film Human Terrain takes ……become avatars of the other.

Contention Four: Solvency

Anthropology is key in speaking out against government war on civilian populations, but militarized anthropology legitimizes and fuels the wholesale categorization rhetoric of the “uncivilized”
David Price “Past wars, present dangers, future anthropologies” St. Martin’s College ANTHROPOLOGY TODAY VOL 18 NO 1, FEBRUARY 2002
It is imperative that….. and intelligence community.

Anthropology is key in changing public discussion about minority populations; Academia must not participate in the military industrial complex it must criticize militarization
David Price “Past wars, present dangers, future anthropologies” St. Martin’s College ANTHROPOLOGY TODAY VOL 18 NO 1, FEBRUARY 2002
We need to choose …….against minority populations.

Representations shape the way in which policies are formed
Bleiker 3 (Roland, Poly Sci @ U of Queensland, Australian Journal of Politics and History: Volume 49, No. 3, 2003 pp. 430-445)
Such a critical engagement …..terrorism and the fight against it.

**Text: United States federal government should substantially reduce its Human Terrain Teams from Iraq and Afghanistan and counterinsurgency presence from Afghanistan.**

===**COIN Add- On**=== 

**COIN success mandates a “resistance is futile” mindset about the state and legitimates the sovereignty of the west while corrupting local efforts at governance**
War by Other Means: The Problem of Population and the Civilianisation of Coalition Interventions Colleen **__Bell__** University of Bristol © 20**__09__** School of Sociology, Politics, and International Studies, University of Bristol Working Paper No 02-09
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Where </span>__<span style="color: black;">ethopolitics informs ….. </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">these institutional actors.</span>

**With counterinsurgency populations become the foundation for warfare and administration becomes self defeating - COIN starts to justify the insurgency because they suppress the population**
War by Other Means: The Problem of Population and the Civilianisation of Coalition Interventions Colleen **__Bell__** University of Bristol © 20**__09__** School of Sociology, Politics, and International Studies, University of Bristol Working Paper No 02-09
__In his influential classical ……**but a consequence of ‘being out-administered’**.__
=== === 
===**Air Strikes Add-On**=== 

**HTT escalates violence - resorts to air strikes with out justification**
Maximilian **__Forte__** 31 July 20**__10__** “Human Terrain System in Wikileaks’ Afghan War Diary: Searching for Evidence of the Positive” http://zeroanthropology.net/2010/07/31/human-terrain-system-in-wikileaks-afghan-war-diary-searching-for-evidence-of-the-positive/
__In addition, even ……..immediate aerial bombardment.__

**US airpower is used against civilian targets causing long drawn out conflicts that inevitably fail at counterinsurgency operations**
**Crane 2001**
(Conrad, fellow at the Strategic Studies Institute, The National Interest, Fall, lexis) __Destruction is what …….airpower not least.__
=== === 
===**Politics Link Turns**=== 
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**Obama can spin a shit in strategy he is not tied down to COIN**</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**IISS 10 – International Institute for Strategic Studies, (April, “Obama's presidency bolstered by political success”** [[http://www.iiss.org/publications/strategic-comments/past-issues/volume-16-2010/april/obamas-presidency-bolstered-by-political-success/|**http://www.iiss.org/publications/strategic-comments/past-issues/volume-16-2010/april/obamas-presidency-bolstered-by-political-success/**]] **)**</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times;">As a consequence…..__l then to take stock__</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**The House finds the HTS irrelevant to the war effort- withdrawal would be popular**</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**__Washington Independent, 5/20__**/10</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">[[http://washingtonindependent.com/85373/house-panel-displeased-with-human-terrain-system]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">That’s the Human Terrain System…. experience any interruption in funding.</span>
**COIN will cost much political capitol to maintain**
**__McManus 9__** (Doyle, 9/27, LA Times, “Obama's choice in Afghanistan”, [[http://articles.latimes.com/2009/sep/27/opinion/oe-mcmanus27/2]])
__The president faces a …….better long-term results.__
**Obama can appease the public by dropping Afghanistan and presuming a more concise agenda - this is the key internal to fiscal responsibility**
**__Inboden 9__** (William, senior vice president of the Legatum Institute, 8/21, “Obama and LBJ: A Comparison to Avoid”, [[http://blog.american.com/?p=4139]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">Yet there are worrisome ……lessons about what not to do.</span>

**The war strategy can act as a drain on Obama’s Political Capitol and public influence**
**__Gandelman 9__** [Joe, editor-in-chief, “Obama’s Afghanistan Plan: Recipe for Success or Political and Military Failure?,” THE MODERATE VOICE, [[http://themoderatevoice.com/54933/obamas-afghanistan-plan-recipe-for-success-or-political-and-military-failure/]]]
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can Obama survive this left/right pincer …….</span>**__clout has seemed to weaken.__

===__2AC Security K – Links__=== 

Economic security discourse attempts to violently re-order the world via endless interventions in the name of economic well-being
Mark <span class="cite">__Neocleous__</span>, Professor of Critique of Political Economy at Brunel University (UK), 200<span class="cite">__8__</span> (“Critique of Security.” Pg. 101-102.)
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In other words</span>,** <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">……</span></span>**‘**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">secured’ everywhere</span></span>**__.__**

Representation of American hegemony creates racial hierarchies – they demonize all others as threats to violently justify their intervention 
<span class="cite">David __Campbell__, Geography @ Durham ET AL __‘7__ “Performing Security: The Imaginative Geographies of current US strategy” Political Geography 26 (4) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Again, </span>__it is essential ……__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">his work that we now turn. </span></span>

Strive for arms control reinforces hegemonic and securitizing discourse into international relations frameworks – a critical theory of arms control that investigate the justifications presented in the 1AC solves
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper 06</span></span> -- NEIL COOPER, Reader in International Relations at the Department of Peace Studies of the University of Bradford “Putting disarmament back in the frame” Review of International Studies, 2006. p. 361-364
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, whilst it </span><span class="underline">......broader hegemonic practices. </span>





=Negative= 
Questions or comments email - [[mailto:Coppelldebate@gmail.com|Coppelldebate@gmail.com]]

==Security K== 

**Peace is the overall concept of security. Dangers are the product of our own actions forcing peace threats to become risks of security.**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Waever</span></span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">—</span>//**<span class="Heading3Char">Ph.D. in Political Science and Professor of International Relations at COPRI </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">–</span>**<span class="Heading2Char">20__04__</span><span class="Heading3Char"> (Ole, “Peace and Security”, Contemporary Security Analysis and Copenhagen Peace Research, pg.62-63)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">After the end of the Cold War, </span><span class="UnderliningChar">……the name of a radical, subversive agenda</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, threat construction allows the state to mobilize its population against a common “enemy,” this makes the impact inevitable and allows for the elimination of entire populations.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __Coviello, 2000__.</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Peter. Assistant Professor. English. Bowdoin College. Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations. “Apocalypse from Now On.”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Perhaps. But to claim </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">….. be done without.</span>__[[#_Toc271064487]]

**The impact to a framework where calculative justifications are the determination of our ethics is the devaluation of all life to the zero point, where the Holocaust is possible.**
**__Dillon 99__** <span style="font-weight: normal;">(Michael, Professor of IR @ Lancaster, "Another Justice" //Political Theory//, Vol. 27, No. 2. April, pp. 165)</span>
__<span style="font-weight: normal;">Economies of evaluation …..whatever exceeds measure."</span>__

**The alternative is to deconstruct security as a first step towards breaking down the concepts that govern the current ideas of security. An individual approach towards destabilizing the false ideas brought as a result of securitization is key to breaking down this unnecessary fear of death we possess.**
**__Der Derian__**, Prof of Poly Sci at Univ of Massachusetts, 19**__98__**
[//The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard//, [[http://www.ciaonet.org/boo%20k/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html|http://www.ciaonet.org/boo k/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html]]]
Nietzsche transvalues both ……__extirpation of difference.__

==__Midterms - Dems Good Climate__== 
**Democrats control the Senate**
**Nate <span class="tagChar">Silver, 9-8</span>-10**. Nate is the best politics author alive. “Republicans Have One-in-Four Chance to Claim Senate Majority, Model Shows,” 538 Politics, [[http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2010/09/07/republicans-have-one-in-four-chance-to-claim-senate-majority-model-shows/]].
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Republicans</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> now </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">have</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> approximately </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">……</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">chance of victory. </span>

**Plan hurts dems in the midterms**
Jamie M. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fly</span></span>, Executive Director - Foreign Policy Initiative & Research associate at the Council on Foreign Relations, 1-28-<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span>, “Does Obama Have a Foreign Policy?,” http://www.weeklystandard.com/blogs/does-obama-have-foreign-policy
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">While it is understandable …..commander in chief in very consequential times. </span></span>

**Democratic margins are key to climate legislation**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="tagChar">AP, 2-18</span>-10.** “Obama aims to bolster Senate Democrats out West,” [[http://www.zimbio.com/AP+News/articles/iMOjYpPJARt/Obama+aims+bolster+Senate+Democrats+out+West]]. </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama ventures</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thursday to Denver </span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">……</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Strip to the chamber of commerce. </span>

**Democrat-driven legislation is key to global signaling – the impact is extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freedland, 9-15</span>**-09. Guardian's policy editor, “If Obama can't defeat the Republican headbangers, our planet is doomed ,” [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/sep/15/obama-healthcare-climate-change-copenhagen]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Unsurprisingly, this is having …..</span>will do the right thing

==Futenma PIC== 

**CP Text: The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from Futenma Air Station.**

**Solves the AFF- all their solvency advocates are talking JUST about Futenma**

**AND--**

**An earthquake in Japan is coming its just a question of if we have III MEF to provide disaster relief and humanitarian aid**
<span class="cite">__The Australian__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, 2/27/</span>__10,__</span>
<span class="cite"> <span style="font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/okinawa-tsunami-alert-after-strongest-earthquake-in-15-years/story-e6frg6so-1225835038036]], PK</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Around</span> 20 per cent of the world's most powerful earthquakes strike Japan...<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> which also left some 1.2 million people homeless.</span>


III MEF disaster relief is key to save the lives of those who will be injured- Pakistan proves
Lance Cpl. Scott M. **__Biscuiti__**, blog from Leatherneck and author, 11/28/20**__05__**, [[http://www.leatherneck.com/forums/archive/index.php/t-23718.html]] PK
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nearly 200 </span>Okinawa-based Marines ... and a 60-bed ward.

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**We’re long overdue- the avian flu has a good shot at being the next pandemic**</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">David </span>__Allen,__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Guam Bureau Chief for Stars and Stripes, moved to the Okinawa News Bureau, received the Clarion Award for Hard News and a national award presented by the Association of Women in Communications, 4/9/</span>__07__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, [[http://www.stripes.com/news/iii-mef-ready-to-respond-if-avian-flu-pandemic-hits-1.62544]] PK</span></span>
“Statistically speaking, we’re overdue,”... this influenza going human to human.”

**Okinawan III MEF key to prevent the coming threat**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">David </span>__Allen,__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Guam Bureau Chief for Stars and Stripes, moved to the Okinawa News Bureau, received the Clarion Award for Hard News and a national award presented by the Association of Women in Communications, 4/9/</span>__07__<span style="font-weight: normal;">, [[http://www.stripes.com/news/iii-mef-ready-to-respond-if-avian-flu-pandemic-hits-1.62544]] PK</span></span>
If the avian flu becomes a real pandemic... become the next great human pandemic.



We control magnitude – avian outbreak causes human extinction
<span class="cite">__Greger, ‘6__</span> – Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States
[Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Get rid of the ‘if.’This is going to occur.” http://www.Birdflubook.com]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Other public health authorities have expressed similar sentiments on a... “</span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">it’s </span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">not just a health emergency. It’s the big one.”</span></span>

==NMS CP== 
**CP Text: the Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a national military strategy and corresponding strategic concept focused on implementation, that [INSERT PLAN] is necessary to achieve the national security goals of the United States.**

**Competes – the CP doesn’t __mandate__ the plan. It issues a __recommendation__ that __results__ in policy change**
**Solves the aff – NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan**
<span class="cite">__Meinhart 8__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)</span></span>
To meet these challenges, the military strategy again built__... complex and ambiguous global security environment__. 
**NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal -->**
<span class="cite">__Riley 94__ <span style="font-weight: normal;">(Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Should not </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> __<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">N</span>__</span>ational __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">M</span>__ilitary __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>__trategy __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">provide</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">this </span>__**...**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> planning, and programming for the military 20 years from now begins today.</span>

==2NC Cards== 
**JCS leadership and autonomous decision-making is key to strong civil-military relations- plan collapses it- permutation isn’t net-beneficial**
<span class="cite">__Desch 7__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> (Michael C., Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security Decision-making at the George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service – Texas A&M University, “Bush and the Generals”, Foreign Affairs, May/June, Lexis)</span></span>
ARMCHAIR <span class="term">GENERALS</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Why did c</span>ivil-<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">m</span>ilitary <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">r</span>elations <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">become</span> so <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">frayed in the <span class="term">Bush</span> ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">rather than Cohen's Supreme Command over his 2002 summer vacation. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given the parlous situation in Iraq today </span>--><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the </span>direct <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">result of</span> willful <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">disregard for military advice</span> -- <span class="term"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bush's</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> legacy in civil-military relations</span> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">is</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">likely to be precisely</span> __the opposite of__ what his team __expected: the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">discrediting of the whole notion of civilian control of the military</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span>
**Process is more important than policy**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite">__Meinhart 5 (__<span style="font-weight: normal;">Richard M., Associate Professor of Defense and Joint Processes – U.S. Army War College, “The Pentagon and the Presidency: Civil-Military Relations from FDR to George W. Bush”, Parameters, 35(4), Winter, p. 139)</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If one wants to gain an understanding and </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">appreciation o..</span>__ **__than__** whether the **__actual decisions made__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">by civilian leaders diverge from professional military advice or adversely affect the military.</span>
==India- US Relations DA== 
<!--[if gte mso 10]> 
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**US-India relations are high now.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**__Economic Times 9/9__**, “US laying foundation for indispensable partnership with India: Clinton,” http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/articleshow/6524182.cms</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON: </span>__The United States is ...____take our relationship to the next level,"__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> she said. </span>
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">**2.** **Withdrawal from Afghanistan destroys US-India relations and pushes India toward China.** </span>
**__<span style="color: black;">Kaplan 10</span>__**<span style="color: black;">, Robert D**,** senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security August 2010, “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict,” www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf) </span>
__He__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">or she</span> __who sits in Delhi with his back to....____on how we perform in Afghanistan.__
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">**3.** **US-India relations are key to solve for the economy, democracy, Asian stability, terrorism, and proliferation.**</span>
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;"> **__Burns 05__** <span style="color: black;">– Undersecretary for Political Affairs (Nicholas Burns, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, 9-8-05, Congressional Testimony before the House International Relations Committee, “The U.S. and India: An Emerging Entente?” http://www.nti.org/e_research/official_docs/dos/dos090805.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;"> **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">A strong democratic India is an important partner ...</span>__**<span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> because of the resonance all these programs have for both countries.</span> </span> </span>
**4.** **<span style="color: black;">Asian proliferation is on the brink – prolif causes global instability and nuclear war. Also, prolif leads to US intervention in Asia, turning case.</span>**
**<span style="color: black;"> __Cirincione ’00__</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Joseph, Director of the Non-Proliferation Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Foreign Policy, “The Asian nuclear reaction chain”, Issue 118, Spring, Proquest</span>

<span style="color: black;"> __The blocks would fall quickest and hardest <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">in Asia</span>, where__**__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">...</span>__**</span>__<span style="color: black;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">use of a nuclear weapon</span> since 1945.</span>__