[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
AC 1
People have autonomy Warren Quinn<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> “Actions, Intentions and Consequences: the doctrine of double effect.”</span></span> //<span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Philosophy and Public Affairs</span>//<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Vol. 18, No. 4. (Autumn, 1989) [[http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0048-3915%28198923%2918%3A4%3C334%3AAIACTD%3E2.0.CO%3B2-P]]
[a person is constituted...great cultural revolution]</span></span>

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Standard is treating humans as ends in themselves.</span></span>

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">First, nukes increase risk taking and conflict escalation
Daniel Geller </span></span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;"> “Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation.” The Journal of Conflict Resolution. June 1990.</span>

[the empirical analysis...in nuclear confrontations]

Nuke bomb will incinerate city
Richard Wasserstrom<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;"> War, Nuclear War, and Nuclear Deterrence: Some Conceptual and Moral Issues. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 424-444. Published by: The University of Chicago Press. Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381030</span>

[the fireball, which follows...and exposed to it]

Second, destroys combatant noncombatant distinction
Robert Churchill <span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;">“Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue.” //Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science//, Vol. 469. September 1983.</span>
[deterrence requires...drivers of automobiles]

Third, CTBT solves
Richard Rhodes <span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;">“The Twilight of the Bombs.” 2010. Print.</span>
[Monitoring for the...electrical conductivity measurements]

AC 2

V-Morality
C- Maximizing Life

States obligated to act in manner that protects most life
Philosophy Professor 1999 (William H. Shaw, 1999, Philosophy and Chair of the Philosophy at SJSU, “contemporary ethics: taking account of utilitarianism” p 171-2)
[because of its…and well-intentioned]
Deontology collapses into utilitarianism
<span style="color: black;">Cummiskey, David. //Kantian consequentialism//. New York: Oxford UP, 1996. Print.
[in the negative sense…promote the happiness of others]</span>
A. Accidents
Possibility of accidental use makes deterrence impossible
Ikle <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12px;">Fred Charles Ikle. “The Second Coming of the Nuclear Age.” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 75, No. 1 (Jan.</span>

[now that the…dangers of the new nuclear age]
Accidents are no myth
Granoff <span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif; font-size: 12px; line-height: 13px;">Jonathan Granoff, president of the Global Security Institute, WORLD POLICY JOURNAL, "The Process of Zero", Winter 2010, p.asp</span>

[Gen. George Lee Butler…bottom of the ocean]
B. Non nuclear states
NW have limited deterrent effect
Geller <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12px;">Daniel S. Geller. “Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation.” The Journal of Conflict </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12px; line-height: 13px;">Resolution, ol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990), pp. 291-310.</span>
[in a related piece…appears to be determinative]
<span style="color: black;">C. Politics
Deterrence does not work because of irrationality
Stegenga </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12px;">James A. Stegenga. “Deterrence: Bankrupt Ideology.” Policy Sciences, Vol. 16, No. 2 (Nov., 1983), pp. 127-1145.</span>

<span style="color: black;">[And, as we know from…general erodes rationality]
Pakistani/India situation increases Pakistani first strike
Sethi </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12px; line-height: 13px;">Manpreet Sethi December 2009. Fellow of International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies. Head of the Nuclear Security project PhD, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Research faculty of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, New Delhi. “Nuclear Deterrence in Second Tier Nuclear Weapon States: A Case Study of India” Center of Humaties Science New Dehli. 25. CSH-Dehli.</span>
<span style="color: black;">[the possibility of...territorial status vis-a-vis India]</span>
NW between India and Pakistan = death
Milosevich<span style="font-size: 12px;">The Columbia Missourian 6/11/2009 <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Steven Starr seeks to revolutionize views on nuclear weapons </span></span></span><span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 13px;">BY Darren Milosevich http://www.columbiamissourian.com/stories/2009/06/11/steven-starr-nuclear-expert/</span>
[according to...suicide for humanity]
D. Nuclear Terrorism
They will steal
Bunn and Weir<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12px; line-height: 13px;">Matthew Bunn and Anthony Wier Source: Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 607, Confronting the Specter of Nuclear Terrorism (Sep., 2006), pp. 133-149</span>
[terrorists might attempt...have not been detected]
Terrorists are irrational
Lippman <span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Matthew </span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Lippman</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">, Professor, Department of Criminal Justice, University of Illinois-Chicago, “The New Terrorism and International Law,” TULSA JOURNAL OF COMPARATIVE AND INTERNATIONAL LAW v. 10, 20</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">03</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">, p. 302-304</span>
[terrorists also increasingly...limited political objetives]
single detonation will kill half a million people
Bunn and Weir 2
[Let us imagine that...and building collapse]


Second, effects of nuclear strike catastrophic
Sagan <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px;">Sagan, Carl. "Carl Sagan / The Nuclear Winter." The School of Cooperative Individualism / Welcome Page. Web. 25 Aug. 2010.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"><http://www.cooperativeindividualism.org/sagan_nuclear_winter.html>.</span>
[The world health organization...prolonged agony and barbarism]
AC 3
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V-M
Morality is based on rational actors
Watkins and Fitzpatrick Eric Watkins and William Fitzpatrick [in respective order: Department of Philosophy, University of California, San Diego; Department of Philosophy, Virginia Tech]. O’Neill and Korsgaard on the Construction of Normativity . The Journal of Value Inquiry 36: 349–367, 2002. 2002 Kluwer Academic Publishers. Printed in the Netherlands. http://www.springerlink.com/content/4b9e64tdfr1nh9x7/fulltext.pdf
[Since we are...our own rational agency]
Inviolability is key to expressing moral status
Frances Kamm In search of the deep structure of morality. An interview with Frances Kamm.” [[http://records.viu.ca/www/ipp/pdf/kamm.pdf]]
[Because I thought...determines their worth.]
S- treating humans as ends in themselves
Parfit (Philosophy Professor, Oxford University). Climbing the Mountain (Unpublished).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[according to desire...happiness as an end]
The affirmative thesis is that possession of nuclear weapons treats humans as a means to an end
1. intention to retaliate
Steven Lee Steven Lee. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences. Ethics Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 549-566. The University of Chicago Press. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381037.
[Deterrence works only...intention to retaliate]
2. increase conflict escalation
Beardsley Kyle Beardsley and Victor Asal. “Nuclear Weapons as Shields.” Conflict Management and Peace Science. 2009.
[We use...two of the models]
Fireball caused by nuke will incinerate people
Wasserstrom Richard Wasserstrom. War, Nuclear War, and Nuclear Deterrence: Some Conceptual and Moral Issues. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 424-444. Published by: The University of Chicago Press. Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381030
[The fireball...and exposed to it]
3. coercive force of international relations
Ikle , former Under Secretary of Defense for Policy in the Reagan administration and Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency under President Ford; affiliated with the Center for Strategic and International Studies, FOREIGN AFFAIRS, January / February 1996, p. 119.
[throughout the cold war....Reagan affirmed it]
4. States cannot control proportionality
Sven Linqvist A history of Bombing. 2000. The New Press
[three judges from countries...members acting in self-defense]
Always probability of acidental launch
Nathan Busch Nathan Busch, Professor of Government at Christopher Newport University, 2004, “No End in Sight: The Continuing Menace of Nuclear Proliferation” p 281-314 Will Emerging NWSs Be Likely to Avoid Inadvertent Use?
[This study has demonstrated...due to miscalculation or false warnings]</span>
==Negative== 
Asteroids

A. Nukes, our last hope
Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Space Studies Board, National Research Council “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” June 30 2010
[Nuclear explosives ...generation and cratering.]

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 0px;">Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, Space Studies Board, National Research Council “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies” June 30 2010 </span>
<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> [</span>In the nuclear stand-off ...above escape speed.] </span>

B. Destruction of the world
Steven J. Ostro “Radar Observations of Earth-Approaching Asteroids” Engineering and Science No.2 1997
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">[But even if we never go to these objects…but there are other such events in the paleontological record.]
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Steven J. Ostro “Radar Observations of Earth-Approaching Asteroids” Engineering and Science No.2 1997</span>
[The very, very low-energy events...just in case we're unlucky]

NC 1
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">V- Morality</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College, Kantian Consequentialism, 1996. P. 145-146]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[the most fundamental...fully discourage it]
David Cummiskey [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College, Kantian Consequentialism, 1996. P. 145-146]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[by emphasizing solely...some to save many]
Standard is promoting the protection of life
1. deters from irrational behavior
Kenneth Waltz “The Spread of Nuclear Weapons: More May Better,” Adelphi Papers, Number 171 (London: International Institute for Strategic Studies, 1981) [[http://www.mtholyoke.edu/acad/intrel/waltz1.htm]]
[Second, states act with less...might lose everything]
2. deters bioweapons
Gompert in 2001. [“A Nuclear Arsenal is Needed to Counter a Biological Weapons Threat.” Greenhaven Press, 2001]
[defense alone...interest in nuclear weapons]
Gompert 2
[of the two types...against their use]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">NC 2
ought-desirability
Desirable policy of states
John Mearsheimer Mearsheimer, John J. [Professor Emeritus @ UChicago on International Relations] The Tragedy of Great Power Politics. 2001. W. W. & Norton Company. (p. 31).
[states seek to...most important objective]
states fear each other
John Mearsheimer
[great powers fear...war with them]
S-Maintaining State Security
NW deters conflicts
Asal and Beardsley
[since August 9...in salient conflicts]
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Israel DA
A. US and Israeli relations are high
Lazaroff Tovah. Staffer for the Jerusalem Post. “US Commitment to Israel ‘Unshakeable’” The Jerusalem Post, 5/21/10. lnMGW-JV]
[US President Barrack...he said]
B.Aff would disarm
Ogilive-White Natasha – Senior Lecturer in IR @ Univ of Canterbury and Tanya Ogilvie-White and Rodrigo Alvarez Valdez – Coordinator of the Non-Proliferation Project @ The Latin American School of Social Sciences in Chile. “The NPT Holdouts: Universality as an Elusive Goal” The Nonproliferation Review, Vol 17 No 1. March 2010. INFORMAWORLDMGW-JV]
[A potential unintended...in Iraq and Syria]
C. Impact
Ivashov Ivashov ‘7 [Leonid. Analyst at the Strategic Culture Foundation. “Iran: The Threat of Nuclear War” The AP, 21 April 07. Lexis//MGW-JV]
[What might cause...than WWII]</span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]