[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==[[#September-October-Affirmative]]Affirmative== 
Greenhill: 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Our obligation as debaters is to act and debate in a way that mirrors the decision of policy makers. This allows us to engage in policy-making role-playing, which is the most educational part of debate. Shaw writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">PEDAGOGY IN INTERNATIONAL STUDIES Using Role-Play Scenarios in the IR Classroom: An Examination of Exercises on Peacekeeping Operations and Foreign Policy Decision Making CAROLYN M. SHAW Wichita State University </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: auto; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: auto;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ought is defined as desirability. A state exists to solve collective action problems. As such, a state cannot be obligated to act in a manner that is inadvisable. And states care about utility over following principles. Hasnas writes<span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn1;">[[2010-2011 --- Meadows (NV) --- Maddy Walsh#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>,</span><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[1]</span></span></span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hasnas, John. Ass. Prof. Business Ethics at Georgetown University and a Senior Research Fellow at the Kennedy Institute, 1995</span> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">North Korea plans to launch nuclear weapons due to current US and South Korea military training, De Young writes: </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">By Karen DeYoung Saturday, July 24, 2010. North Korea threatens nuclear response to U.S.-South Korea military exercises. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp.%20dyn/content/article/2010/07/23/AR2010072301387.html|http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp. dyn/content/article/2010/07/23/AR2010072301387.html]]</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">North Korean denuclearization is key to solve extinction. Lynn writes, </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Zachary Lynn, 1/22/10. </span><span style="color: #2d5cb6; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://media.www.guilfordian.com/media/storage/paper281/news/2010/01/22/World/North.Korea.Offers.Peace.Treaty.In.Exchange.For.The.Lifting.Of.Sanctions-3855584.shtml]]</span></span>


<span style="color: #262626; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Additionally, North Korea is a gold mine for terrorists to obtain nuclear weapons, Perry writes: </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> Proliferation on the Peninsula: Five North Korean Nuclear Crises Author(s): William J. Perry Source: Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 607,Confronting the Specter of Nuclear Terrorism (Sep., 2006), pp. 78-86Published by: Sage Publications, Inc. in association with the American Academy of Political and Social Science Stable URL: </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/25097840]]</span> </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Iran will make a nuclear weapon. It’s just as inevitable as it was for North Korea. Easterbrook writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Gregg Easterbrook [contributing editor to The Atlantic, The New Republic and The Washington Monthly, a former visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution and distinguished fellow of the Fulbright Foundation]. What will Iran do with nuclear weapons? Probably nothing. Reuters. April 22, 2010. http://blogs.reuters.com/gregg-easterbrook/2010/04/22/what-will-iran-do-with-nuclear-weapons-probably-nothing/ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Moreover, Iran has already tested nukes. 20% capability means full capability. They will have or may already have weapons grade uranium. Lopez writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Clare M. Lopez [VP, Intelligence Summit; Prof, Center for Counterintelligence and Security Studies; Former CIA Analyst]. Former CIA analyst: Tehran wants nuclear weapons for two key objectives. 2/12/10. </span>[[http://en.trend.az/news/politics/foreign/1637970.html]] </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Additionally, Iranian proliferation has 4 major implications. Kitrie writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Orde F. Kittrie [Professor of Law at Arizona State University]. “Symposium Article: New Sanctions for a New Century: Trastury’s Innovative use of Financial Sanctions”. UPenn Journal of International Law, Vol 7089, (Spring 2009), pg 4. Lexis Nexis</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">India and Pakistan are in a constant stage of conflict. Vanaik writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Vanaik</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, Achin. Nuclear Risk Reduction Measures between India and Pakistan. Economic and Political Weekly, Vol. 37, No. 28 (Jul. 13-19, 20__02__), </span></span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">An India/Pakistan conflict will go nuclear. Schram writes, </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">SCHRAM: India-Pakistan nuclear risk?, By Martin Schram December 5, 2008 . </span>[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2008/dec/05/india-pakistan-nuclear-risk/]] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Such a conflict would kill billions. Medical news today writes, </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine, Royal Society of Medicine, 03 Oct 2007, Medical News Today. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 6pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">[[http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/84469.php]]</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Moreover, Pakistan is likely to send nukes to terrorists. The IPPNW writes, </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">IPPNW [Nobel Peace Prize winners 1995]. Nuclear Terrorism. Octobor 2004. Google </span>





----

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="mso-footnote-id: ftn1;">[[2010-2011 --- Meadows (NV) --- Maddy Walsh#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Hasnas, John. Ass. Prof. Business Ethics at Georgetown University and a Senior Research Fellow at the Kennedy Institute, 1995 </span></span>


==[[#September-October-Negative]]Negative== 
**Asteroids**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Probability and magnitude for a strike are 100 percent Kunich writes: </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">John Kunich [Lt. Colonel USAF; J.D., Harvard Law Schoo l; LL.M., George Washington University School of Law, Staff Judge Advocate 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base]. 1997. 41 Air Force L. Rev. 119, lexis</span> <span style="font-size: 4pt;">“Irrespective of the ...d States Air Force. “</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Schweickart explains that nuclear warheads are necessary to prevent large asteroids from ramming into the earth and killing us all.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Schweickart 7 – Russell L. Schweickart, former Apollo astronaut, chairman of the B612 Foundation, March 16, 2007, “The Sky Is Falling. Really.,”</span>**
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">“Two</span>__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">potential</span> __<span style="font-size: 10pt;">deflection</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> __…__</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">a calculated impact”</span>**

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]