[[toc]]


=Novice Team Initials= 
Rowland Hall GS (Julia Goldman & Emily Sundquist) - COIN or Japan
Rowland Hall FS (Emily Fouche & Harry Stone) - COIN
Rowland Hall ES (Marisa Eng & Karim Shaaban) - Japan

***Please see [[2010-2011 — Rowland Hall (UT) — Caroline Neilsen & Annie White]] for additional info.
=Affirmatives= 
==COIN Aff== 
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 12pt;"> OR</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 12pt;"> Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan. </span>
===[[#Affirmative-Hegemony_Advantage]]Hegemony Advantage=== 
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">First, we’re not ahead – Counterinsurgency is impossible in Afghanistan.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Nelson, ‘9 – former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, [[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Q1: General McChrystal is expected to request up to … expenditure that any “all-in” approach would entail.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Failure is inevitable in the status quo – Corruption, lack of resources, ethnic tensions, and geography make the strategy ineffective.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Dorronsoro, ‘10 - visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” In These Times, 5/24, [[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan is at an impasse … recognize the impossibility of a military solution.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> The Afghan COIN model is disastrous for US hegemony – We will control 5 internals</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> a. Budget Paralysis</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> The new military posture requires massive investment, which collapses our budget.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Klare, 10 - Five Colleges professor of Peace and World Security Studies, whose department is located at Hampshire College, defense correspondent of The Nation magazine, and author of Resource Wars and Blood and Oil: The Dangers and Consequences of America's Growing Petroleum Dependency (Michael, “'Two, Three, Many Afghanistans'”, 4/8, The Nation, [[http://www.thenation.com/issue/april-26-2010]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Now we have President Obama and his domineering Defense Secretary … to a world of increased anti-Americanism and violence.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> b. Retrenchment</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> COIN ultimately results in abandonment – loss of leadership here will result in countless scenarios of destruction.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Kretkowski, ‘10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), [[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of … or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> c. Morale & Readiness</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Afghanistan is a quagmire –presence eviscerates American morale.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Kuhner, 9 - the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> America is losing the war in Afghanistan … Afghans into the evil, welcoming arms of extremists</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> d. Credibility</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> The plan restores it with generals and foreign leaders – It ensures a sustainable presence and incentivizes political solutions instead of civil war.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Stewart, ‘10 - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, [[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> As long as the US asserted that Afghanistan was an existential threat … That would be excellent for Afghans and good for the world</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> e. Overstretch</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Reframing our grand strategy is key to an adequate strategic reserve.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Friedman, ‘10 - American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College (George, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29,</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> [[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> The exit of U.S. forces represents a bid to reinstate … to free up forces and re-establish its ground reserves</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Loss of primacy guarantees world wars.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Kagan 07 - senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7/19, [[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy … influence and global involvement will provide an easier path</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> The impact is extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Nye 90 (Joseph, University Distinguished Service Professor and Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations at Harvard University., “Bound to Lead: The Changing Nature of American Power”, 17-18)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Perceptions of change in the relative power of nations … which two nations have dominated the balance of power.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Even if they win that a world without hegemony is good, they still lose – getting there would mean massive transition wars across the globe</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Brzezinski 5 (Zbigniew National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University, “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership”, p. 2-4)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> History is a record of change, a reminder that nothing endures … enlist others in a common effort to shape a secure international environment.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Less is more – shifting to a counterterrorism strategy maintains public support allows for a smaller, but permanent presence in the region.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Stewart, ‘9 - Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> The best Afghan policy would be to reduce the number of foreign troops … In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more. </span>

===Government Advantage=== 
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">The December Review set in motion a political battle between the President and his military commanders. In the status quo, Obama will cave and recommit to COIN. This cements DOD control over foreign policy and eviscerates civilian control over the military.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Joshua **Foust, ‘10**, military intelligence analyst who specializes in the socio-cultural dynamics of irregular warfare, has worked on open-source analysis programs for the Defense Intelligence Agency and as an analyst for Afghanistan, 11-16-2010 (“Don’t bring a knife to a gunfight… over Afghan strategy,” Need To Know—a public affairs program on PBS, November 16th, Available Online at [[http://www.pbs.org/wnet/need-to-know/voices/don%E2%80%99t-bring-a-knife-to-a-gunfight%E2%80%A6-over-afghan-strategy/5168/]], Accessed 11-18-2010)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> __The war in Afghanistan is at a crossroads__… watching them very closely.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> **This usurpation of grand strategy by the military brass will have devastating consequences—military dominance of foreign policy results in tunnel vision, conflict escalation, and adventurist wars that drag the U.S. into perpetual quagmires.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> **Martin,** editor of Obsidian Wings, The Progressive Realist, and American Footprints**, ’10** (Eric holds a B.A. in Philosophy from New York University and a J.D. from Fordham University, 10-09-2010 (“If All You Have Is A Hammer…,” American Footprints—a foreign policy blog, October 9th, Available Online at [[http://americanfootprints.com/wp/2010/10/if-all-you-ask-is-a-hammer/]], Accessed 10-19-2010)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> __One of the maladies plaguing … world be damned.__</span>


<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> **COIN destroys the internal working of the government and shreds foreign policy coherence**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> **Cohen 09** (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back progress on other fronts", [[http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops … and his presidency.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> **Presence in Afghanistan also kills our moral legitimacy – withdrawal opens up space for diplomacy**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> **Pascal 09** - Zachary Pascal is a member of the In These Times Board of Editors and a professor of journalism at Stanford University and is a fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “[[http://towardfreedom.com/home/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan|The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan]]”,October 12, 2009, [[http://towardfreedom.com/home/content/view/1717/106/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> For President Obama, the stakes … __to problems in distant lands.__ </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> **The impact is prolif and stability—cooperation ensures rising powers are stable and prevents nuke war**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> **Dyer, 04** - worked as a freelance journalist, columnist, broadcaster and lecturer on international affairs for more than 20 years, but he was originally trained as an historian. Born in Newfoundland, he received degrees from Canadian, American and British universities, finishing with a Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History from the University of London. [Gwynne, "The end of war," Toronto Star, 12/30, l/n]</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;"> __War is deeply embedded in our history… within the context of the existing state system.__ </span>

==Japan Aff== 
**PLAN:**<span style="font-family: Times;"> The United States Federal Government should withdraw all active service members in the United States Marine Corps from the Futenma Marine Corps Air Station from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan. Funding and enforcement through normal means. We reserve the right to clarify.</span>

===Inherency=== 
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Current US military basing in Japan strains both relationships and economies. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">First, Okinawan citizens want US bases removed, adding to tensions between Washington and Tokyo. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Bandow 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (Doug, Sr. Fellow @ Cato Institute, fmr. special asst. to Pres. Reagan. “Japan Can Defend Itself”. National Interest Organization. <http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23390) World War II ended 65 years ago…. Their feelings are understandable, given the horrors of World War II. However, the most fundamental duty of any national government is defense </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Second, rising tensions between the U.S. and Tokyo put the future of the alliance in jeopardy. </span>**

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times;">Auslin 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (Michael, Resident scholar at AEI, “The US-Japan Alliance” AEI (American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research) < </span>[[http://www.aei.org/outlook/100929]]<span style="font-family: Times;">>) **As of January 2010,** however,</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> the new…</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> together to control the maritime domain in Northeast Asia. </span></span>



===Economy=== 

**<span style="font-family: Times;">First, the U.S. economy is already facing economic woes because of military deployments. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Adams and Leatherman, 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> (Dr. Gordon Adams and Matthew Leatherman, “Time to discipline defense spending,” BudgetInsight, July 19). </span>
**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Now is the time for Congress and the Pentagon… U.S. withdrawal in Iraq and Afghanistan </span>**


**<span style="font-family: Times;">Second, removing U.S. bases from Okinawa would save billions </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Cogan 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (Editor, //Guam Echo//, fmr. Asst. to the Dept. of Interior, “More Okinawa Marines to the U.S.” //Pacific Daily News//, June 25 2010. http://www.guampdn.com/article/20100625/OPINION02/6250316) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">While the conference referred to a $20 billion buildup of the Marianas,…</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> That would save billions of dollars and be a win-win situation</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Times;">Third, reducing the federal debt is the key to preventing stagflation, which would tank the dollar. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Bayh, 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (Evan, D-Indiana, “Why Democrats Must Restrain Spending,” //Wall Street Journal//, Sept. 18. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt; margin-left: 0in;">Last month the Office of Management and Budget… influence; we must borrow to pay for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Fourth, stagflation causes depression. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Schiller, 1997</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (Bradley, Prof. Econ @ American U, “The Deficit Problem is Far From Over,” //Los Angeles Times//, May 6) </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times;">The ever-cautious budget office…." In other words, the projected U.S. deficit might trigger another Great Depression</span></span><span style="font-family: Times;">. </span>


**<span style="font-family: Times;"> Fifth, U.S. economic recession causes global wars. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Mead 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (Walter Russell, Sr Fellow @ Council on Foreign Relations, “Only Makes You Stronger,” //The New Republic//, </span>[[http://www.tnr.com/article/only-makes-you-stronger]]<span style="font-family: Times;">) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Every crisis is different**,** but there seem to be reasons why, over time, financial crises on balance reinforce rather than undermine the world… The United States may not, yet, decline, but, if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight. </span>


===Bio-Diversity=== 

**<span style="font-family: Times;">First, P.M. Kan has agreed that if the USMC stays in Japan, they will be moved to Camp Schwab—it’s now a question of WHEN not IF. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Gajinaas 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (“Okinawa: Futenma MCAS controversy explained.” </span>[[http://gaijinass.wordpress.com/2010/07/12/okinawa-futenma-mcas-controversy-explained/]]<span style="font-family: Times;"> July 12 2010) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Public pressure to have the base and corresponding personnel removed is immense and it has become a national hot point in recent months yet…</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> coral reef located near Camp Schwab. </span>**


**<span style="font-family: Times;">Second, moving the base would be devastating—it would destroy the Okinawan coral reefs and eradicate endangered species, including sea turtles and the dugong. Now is the key time to prevent extinction. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Center for Biological Diversity 2009</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (“Dugongs vs. the U.S. Military,” An Open Letter to President Obama, Secretary Clinton, Secretary Gates, and Ambassador Roos. </span>[[http://cop10.org/issues/military/106-henokodugongs%20December%203|http://cop10.org/issues/military/106-henokodugongs December 3]]<span style="font-family: Times;">). </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">The island of **Okinawa has been called the “Galápagos…** would devastate dugong habitat in Henoko Bay and nearby Oura Bay, and would be extremely harmful to turtles, fish, coral, and other marine life. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Third, the loss of coral reef will result in a complete collapse of the marine ecosystem which will have ripple effects of hunger, poverty, and political instability. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Times;">Skoloff 2010</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (Brian, AP Science Writer, “Death of World’s Coral Reefs Could Wreak Global Chaos, //USA Today Online//, http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/environment/2010-03-26-coral-reefs_N.htm) </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">WEST PALM BEACH, Florida — Coral reefs are dying…</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> Once the animals die, the rocky structures erode, depriving fish of vital spawning and feeding grounds. </span>**


**<span style="font-family: Times;">Fourth, the impact of this type of biodiversity loss is total human extinction </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Diner 1994</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> (David N., a Major in JAG, and not the bad television show, “The Army and the Endangered Species Act.” //Military Law Review//, Winter, 1994). </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">4. Biological Diversity. – The main premise of species preservation is that diversity is better than simplicity. 77…</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;">80 mankind may be edging closer to the abyss. </span>**


===U.S. Japan Relations=== 

**<span style="font-family: Times;">First, the current US Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) is generate an outpouring of resentment from Japan. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times;">C. Douglas</span>****<span style="font-family: Times;"> Lummis. </span>****<span style="font-family: Times;">Journalist</span>****<span style="font-family: Times;">. 2008. </span>****<span style="font-family: Times;">“The US-Japan Status of Forces Agreement and Okinawan Anger” The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus. <http://www.japanfocus.org/-C__Douglas-Lummis/2933></span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">In her article “How to Stay in Iraq for 1,000 Years,” Frida Berrigan …, but a recent incident here raises another question: When push comes to shove, to what extent is the US military willing to abide by even its own agreements? </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Second, the USMC base at Futenma is creating political tensions between Washington and Tokyo—only removing the base will ease these tensions.</span>**
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Shimoji 5/10.</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> (Yoshio Shimoji. born in Miyako Island, Okinawa, M.S. (Georgetown University), taught English and English linguistics at the University of the Ryukyus, “The Futenma Base and the U.S.-Japan Controversy: an Okinawan perspective,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, 18-5-10, May 3, **2010**. http://www.dmzhawaii.org/?p=7118 ) </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCard">**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 11pt;">That the U.S. intends to perpetuate its military presence… Military training can be conducted on the vastness of U.S. soil with impunity and to their satisfaction</span>** </span>


**<span style="font-family: Times;">Third, maintaining a strong alliance between the U.S. and Japan is key to prevent a war in Southeast Asia. </span>**

<span class="releasingbureau"><span style="font-family: Times;">Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, U.S. Department of State. 2010. “Foreign Relations” State government website. < http://www.state.gov/r/pa/ei/bgn/4142.htm> </span></span>
**<span style="font-family: Times;">The U.S.-Japan alliance is the cornerstone…</span>**<span style="font-family: Times;"> UN and the second-largest contributor to the UN budget. Japan broadly supports the United States on nonproliferation and nuclear issues. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Times;">Fourth, we control the magnitude. Any conflict in Asia would escalate globally </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times;">East Asian arms race will cause extinction. </span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;">Ogura & Oh ’97</span></span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 12pt;"> [Toshimaru Ogura and Ingyu Oh are professors of economics, April, “Nuclear clouds over the Korean peninsula and Japan,” 1997Accessed July 10, 2008 via Lexis-Nexis (Monthly Review)] </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Times;">North Korea, South Korea, and Japan have achieved quasi… threaten to escalate into a global conflagration.</span>** </span>










=Negative= 
==<span style="font-family: Times;">DA’s </span>== 
===Appeasment: 1NC=== 


Obama is barely holding onto our forward presence – troop withdrawal triggers a catastrophic loss of confidence 
<span class="SourceBold">Guardiano 10-</span><span class="UnderlineChar">If he were reckless, then he would have foolishly and precipitously withdrawn troops from Iraq and Afghanistan. Obama</span>, however, <span class="UnderlineChar">has not done that </span>

The plan ruins Obama’s image forever 
<span class="SourceBold">Morris 09 - </span><span class="UnderlinedCard">the impact of international affairs on presidential image is</span> largely <span class="UnderlinedCard">metaphoric </span>


Global war 
<span class="SourceBold">Johnson & Krulak 9-</span><span class="UnderlineChar">The vigilant "forward presence" of forces is vital to world peace and stability </span>

===EPA Politics=== 
A. Uniqueness – 
Obama blocking EPA efforts now but political calculations are on the brink. 
<span class="SourceBold">Schenkel, 2/4-</span>: <span class="UnderlinedCard">President Obama may be taking a political risk by standing firm behind the EPA Nonetheless, there is determination from Republicans</span>... 
B. Links 
1. Obama must avoid heavy lifting, pick and choose battles – Congress will fight overambitious foreign policy goals like the plan. 
<span class="SourceBold">Kupchan, ’10- </span><span class="UnderlinedCard"> <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">To help clear the legislative hurdles ahead, Obama must be careful not to overreach.</span> </span>
2. The Republican threat to rescind funding is real – only Obama expenditure of political capital can prevent a total gutting of the EPA 
<span class="SourceBold">Cohen, ’10- </span><span class="UnderlinedCard">Republicans in the next Congress are set on limiting the Environmental Protection Agency's authority even if it means denying the agency money to run its programs </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCard">C. Impact- </span>
1. Effective EPA regulation key to prevent ocean acidification – it’s the biggest threat to ocean ecosystems 
<span class="SourceBold">CBD, ‘9-</span><span class="UnderlinedCard"> ocean acidification, is the threat to our ocean ecosystems </span>
2. Collapse of ocean ecosystems ensures extinction of all life 
<span class="SourceBold">Davidson, ‘3-</span><span class="UnderlinedCard"> But wipe out the organisms that inhabit the oceans and all life on land is doomed </span>



===<span style="font-family: Times;"> Reverse Spending </span>=== 


==<span style="font-family: Times;">Case </span>== 
<span style="font-family: Times;"> Usually turns & Adv Defense </span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]