[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Inherency== 

**The United States has made Afghanistan the focal point for a global drone war. Afghanistan is the basing location for drone strikes around the world**
**Turse 10** (Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction [[http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/]] d.a. 7-27-10 ) 
The Air Force ... quite literally, paid.


==1AC Plan Text== 
The United States federal government should withdraw all of its militarized unmanned aircraft vehicles from Afghanistan.

==﻿1AC Pakistan<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 0px; overflow: hidden;">﻿</span>== 

**Current use of UAVs destabilizes Pakistan – fuels terrorist support in the region**
**Innocent 09** (Malou Innocent, foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute, 09 “The US Must Reassess Its Drone Policy”, The Cato Institute, peared in the [[http://www.dailystar.com.lb/default.asp|Lebanon Daily Star]] on August 25, 2009, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10479) 
The death ... in the region.

**Destabilized Pakistan Causes Nuclear Terrorism – Insurgents will take over the state and gain the nuclear arsenal**
**Risinger 09** (Caleb N. Risinger, LCDR, 09 “Interdicting Pakistani Cross Border Sanctuary”, Naval War College, May, 2009, pdf)
The major Afghani ... hands of Islamic extremists. 

**Nuclear terrorism escalates to extinction**
**Morgan 9** (Dennis, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on Fire) LL
Moore points out ... in a nuclear winter. 

**This nuclear terrorist attack will come within the next three years.**
**Bohon 6/15** [Dave Bohon, Government Panel Predicts WMD Attack by 2013, New American, 6/ 15/10, http://www.thenewamerican.com/index.php/usnews/politics/3788-government-panel-predicts-wmd-attack-by-2013] 
The official report ... a sense of urgency.” 

**India backlashes to Pakistani terrorists – escalates to Nuclear Indo-Pak War**
**Krepon 04** (Michael Krepon, Co-founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center and the author or editor of thirteen books and over 350 articles, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, the US Arms Control and Disarmament Agency during the Carter administration, and in the US House of Representative, MA from the School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, 11-2004, “The Stability-Instability Paradox, Misperception, and Escalation Control,” Stimson, http://www.stimson.org/pub.cfm?id=191)
Renewed ... poor basis for nuclear stabilization. 

**Even a small nuclear Indo-Pak war causes nuclear winter and mass starvation**
**Lane 08** (Eric Lane, writer for the American Association for the Advancement of Science, June 23, 2008, “Regional Nuclear War Could Have Drastic Climate Impact, Experts Say at AAAS” http://www.aaas.org/news/releases/2008/0623nukes.shtml)
While such concerns ... for more than a decade.

==1AC Afghanistan== 

**Civilian causalities are the number one issue that cause resurgence – every civilian death means more Taliban recruits and support – U.S. troops are using restraint now**
**Burns/Flaherty** 20**10** (Thursday, May. 13, 2010 06:03 PM US war aim: protect civilians first, then troops By ROBERT BURNS and ANNE FLAHERTY - Associated Press Writers http://www.lakewyliepilot.com/2010/05/13/724894/us-war-aim-protect-civilians-first.html CH)
A key to the U.S. approach to ... avoid civilian casualties

**Getting local Afghanis on board– who oppose civilian causalities – is critical to cut off the Taliban’s support base, preventing resurgence**
**Jones 7** (Seth G. Jones, Ph.D. and M.A. in political science, University of Chicago; A.B., Bowdoin College, “Afghanistan's Local Insurgency”, 1-31, [[http://www.rand.org/commentary/013107IHT.html]] CH)
The rising violence ... nature of the insurgency.

**We’ll isolate 2 impacts.**
**Afghan Takeover**
**- Taliban resurgence causes terrorist state take-over**
**Newmann ‘8** (William W., April, L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs, Virginia Commonwealth University, “Hegemonic Competition, Hegemonic Disruption and the Current War”, pg. 30) 
Al-Qaeda’s national ... cannot defeat it


**- This uniquely expands the resource base unleashing nuclear and biological strikes – the timeframe for this scenario is 2011**
**Cetron 07** (Marvin Cetron, President, Forecasting International, 2007, The Futurist, May-June 2007, “Defeating Terrorism: Is it Possible? Is it Probable?” )
If the terrorists ... notice as possible.


**- Bioterror leads to Extinction**
**Ochs 02** – (MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html)
Of all the weapons ... highest of all crimes.

**Afghan instability independently causes multiple nuclear wars**
**Morgan, ‘7** – former Member of the British Labor Party Executive Committee (Stephen, “Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?”, [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]) 
The nature of catastrophe ... pitted against the US. 

==1AC Modeling== 

**Deployment of drones is set to double in 2011**
**Jenks 09** (Chris Jenks, Chief of the International Law Branch Office of The Judge Advocate General, 2009, University of North Dakota Law Review, “Law From Above: Unmanned Aerial Systems, Use Of Force, And The Law Of Armed Conflict” [[http://www.law.und.nodak.edu/LawReview/issues/web_assets/pdf/85-3/85NDLR649.pdf]])
In September 2009, ... and outright murder.11

**Unless the U.S. restrains the use of drones there will be a global proliferation of drone technology**
**Engelhardt 10** [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.huffingtonpost.com%2ftom-engelhardt|Tom Engelhardt]] Tom Engelhardt is a graduate of Yale University and one of the country's most eminent book editorsEditor of TomDispatch.com [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tom-engelhardt/america-detached-from-war_b_624155.html%20d.a.%207-25-10|http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tom-engelhardt/america-detached-from-war_b_624155.html d.a. 7-25-10]] “[[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.huffingtonpost.com%2ftom-engelhardt%2famerica-detached-from-war_b_624155.html|America Detached from War: Bush's Pilotless Dream, Smoking Drones, and Other Strange Tales From the Crypt]]“)
Not a single smoking ... administration officials. 

**This lowers the threshold for war and guarantees every international crisis will be resolved with violence**
**Singer 09** P. W. Singer is director of the 21st Century Defense Initiative at the Brookings Institution. Singer.
Winter 2009 Robots at War: The New Battlefield [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.wilsonquarterly.com%2farticle.cfm%3faid%3d1313|http://www.wilsonquarterly.com/article.cfm?aid=1313]]. D.a. 7-25-10
James Der Derian ... into more wars. 

**The result is the extinction of mankind**
**American Empire Project**, Drone Wars: Your Future has Arrived, 4/7/0**9**, [[http://www.pacificfreepress.com/news/1/3990-drone-wars-your-future-has-arrived.html]].]
If you want to ... or not.

==1AC Solvency== 

**Removing presence in Afghanistan solves, there are cross border operations from Afghanistan to Pakistan**
**Murphy** PhD in Law 10/27/0**8** (Sean D., Patricia Roberts Harris Research Professor of Law, George Washington University Law School. “The International Legality of U.S. Military Cross-Border Operations from Afghanistan into Pakistan” [[http://www.abanet.org/intlaw/spring09/materials/The%20International%20Legality%20of%20US%20Military%20Cross%20Border%20Operations.pdf]])
U.S. cross-border operations... ad bellum.

**Current US drone use sets precedents—[[#x_LastEdit]]aff reverses those precedents**
**Horton 10** (Scott, A New York attorney known for his work in emerging markets and international law, especially human rights law and the law of armed conflict, Horton lectures at Columbia Law School, “The Trouble with Drones” May 3 2010, [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.harpers.org%2farchive%2f2010%2f05%2fhbc-90006980|http://www.harpers.org/archive/2010/05/hbc-90006980]], 06/25/10. HR)
My second major ... standards for others.

**The surge is substantial—The military impact of the drones dwarfs the impact of the ground troop surge**
**Turse 10** Nick Turse is a fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War and the winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction [[@https://webmail.greenhill.org/owa/redir.aspx?C=59a4c27471a8491aa40af8b3bf10f2c3&URL=http%3a%2f%2fnwoobserver.wordpress.com%2f2010%2f01%2f31%2fdrone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047%2f|http://nwoobserver.wordpress.com/2010/01/31/drone-surge-today-tomorrow-and-2047/]] d.a. 7-27-10 
What were ... flights through 2013.”

=Negative= 
Just general overviews of each argument - cites will come later. These are the most common positions we run, but by no means the only ones we will run.

==Topicality== 
===Substantially Reduce=== 
Substantial is 25-50%
Reduce is to hold within a limit (cap)

===Presence =/= TNWs=== 
TNWs are owned by NATO

==Counterplans== 
===XO=== 
The President of the United States should issue an executive order that...

===Consult NATO=== 
The United States should engage in prior, binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization over whether to...
The United States should advocate the plan throughout the process of consultation and should enact the result of consultation. 

==Disadvantages== 
===EPA Politics=== 
Repubs cutting EPA budget, plan drains Obama's capital, Obama needs capital to save budget, EPA key to stop global warming, global warming leads to resource wars and agriculture collapse, EPA key to stop ocean acidification, ocean acidification causes extinction

===CMR=== 
Civil-military relations are high now, not consulting the military destroys CMR, CMR key to fight irregular warfare, irregular warfare leads to extinction

===Heg Good=== 
US is global hegemon, power is 0-sum, extinction, perception alone triggers

===Iran Heg=== 
Iran is checked by ME presence now, withdrawing allows Iran to become ME hegemon, Sunni genocide/abolish Jewish state/nuke first use

===Japan Rearm=== 
Japan is not rearming now, withdrawing leads to rearm, rearm causes arms race, extinction

===NATO Alliance=== 
NATO alliance strong now, not consulting NATO destroys the alliance, alliance key to deter Russia, US-Russian war leads to extinction

===South Korean Economy=== 
US presence key to SoKo economy, withdrawal collapses SoKo economy, SoKo econ collapse leads to US econ collapse and war with NoKo, US econ collapse leads to nuclear war


==Kritiks== 
===Security=== 
Plan uses circular logic to justify states position, insures annihilation and aff harms, framing/reject security alt

===Terror Talk=== 
Plan's rhetoric pits "good" vs. "evil," shuts off solutions to problems and leads to racist violence, reject construction of terrorism