[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===**counterfactual ac**=== 
V: maintaining an ethical internatl system; VC: min imposition of harms to innocents
Jeanne Schroeder <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">“The Midas Touch: The Lethal Effect Of Wealth Maximization.” 1999 Wisconsin Law Review 687</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">"rational autonomy is...a human being"</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">counterfactual analysis key to moral reasoning</span>

__Lebow__, <span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 14.0pt;">Centennial Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics and Political Science, __00__ [Richard Ned, “What's So Different about a Counterfactual?” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">World Politics</span>//, Volume 52, Number 4, July 2000, pp. 550-585)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 14.0pt;">"counterfactual can combat...decisions and events"</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 14.0pt;">counterfactual thought experiments are no more arbitrary or subjective than any other arguments</span>

Lebow 2
"any sharp distinction...for counterfactual history"

c: we ought not view the creation of the bomb as inevitable. creation of nukes and manhattan project relied on multiple contingencies, and ultimately used people as a means to an ends. 

the manhattan project relied on the lobbying efforts of Vannaver Bush
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stanley Goldberg—1992</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Helvetica; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;"> “Inventing a Climate of Opinion: Vannevar Bush and the Decision to Build the Bomb” Isis, Vol. 83, No. 3 (Sep., 1992), pp. 429-452 Published by: </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Times-Roman; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The University of Chicago Press </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Helvetica; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">on behalf of </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Times-Roman; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">The History of Science Society </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Helvetica; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">Stable URL: </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Times-Roman; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/233904]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Times-Roman; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">"i have argued...have been abandoned"</span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: Times-Roman; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">creation of the bomb was only possible via manipulating the political climate to create to perception of consensus</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">Goldberg 2</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px;">"at first glance...in nuclear technology"</span>

Germany wouldn't have created nukes either
Goldberg 3
"in this regard...and technological research"

manhattan project relied on scientists coming together from all over the world
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daniel Cohen—1998 </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: ArialMT; mso-bidi-font-size: 13.0pt;">“The Manhattan Project” The Chicago Sun Times, Published by Twenty-First Century Books. Google books</span>
<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: ArialMT; mso-bidi-font-size: 13.0pt;">"during the late...the united states"</span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: ArialMT; mso-bidi-font-size: 13.0pt;">impacts:</span>

<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: ArialMT; mso-bidi-font-size: 13.0pt;">1)nuclear testing caused genetic defects</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Dobreva,</span>** Yuri E. [Department of Genetics, University of Leicester, UK.] “Nuclear Weapons Tests and Human Germline Mutation Rate” Science Magazine, Volume 295. 2/8/2002. Downloaded via scienemag.org
"the population around...the affected population"

2)possession of nuclear weapons leads to proxy wars and smaller conflicts
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Times;">GELLER </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Times; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">,DANIEL S. [University of Mississippi] “Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation” The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990), pp. 291-310. Sage Publications, Inc. </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: Times;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/174196</span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">"it is frequently...than nonnuclear disputes"</span>

<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">3)creation of nuclear weapons led to use of nuclear weapons on Hiroshima and Nagasaki</span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ved P. Nanda—2009</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: ArialMT;"> [Professor of Law and Director of the International Legal Studies Program at the University of Denver Sturm College of Law] “Nuclear Weapons, Human Security, and International Law”. Denver Journal of International Law and Policy Denver Journal of International Law and Policy (Summer, 2009) LexisNexis</span></span>
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">"obviously there is...of the Apocalypse"</span>


=== === 
===**inviolability ac**=== 

v: morality
ought=moral obligation

Ethical absolutes are necessary
Grisez, Germain and Russell Shaw. __Absolutism and its Consequentialist Critics__ "Persons, Means, and Ends". Rowman and Littlefield publishers: Maryland, 1994p.24
"no ethical absolutes...against other values"

human worth isn't aggregate
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Thomas E. Hill, Jr. “Humanity as an End in Itself” Ethics, Vol. 91, No. 1 (Oct., 1980), pp. 84-99 Published by: The University of Chicago Press. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2380373 05/07/2010 16:40</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">"the second point...it in another"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0in;">vc: respecting the inviolability of individuals</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0in;">cont 1: possession of nuclear weapons is immoral</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0in;">nuclear weapons deny human worth by putting them at risk</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">C.A.J. Coady, [Professor of Philosophy, University of Melbourne], “Deterrent Intentions Revisited,” “Ethics” 99:1 (Oct. 1998), 98-108, at 101-102. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0in;">"let us call...they are immoral"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0in;">technology makes the violation even more egregious</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px; margin-bottom: 0in;">Thomas Donaldson “Nuclear Deterrence and Self-Defense” Source:Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 537-548 Published by: The University of Chicago <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381036]]</span> </span>


"that is to...the other side"

possession of nuclear weapons violates the rationality of future generations
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11.0pt; mso-ansi-language: EN-US;">MATTHEW RENDALL [Lecturer in Politics and International Relations, University of Nottingham] “Nuclear Weapons and Intergenerational Exploitation,” Security Studies 16, no. 4 (October–December 2007): 525–554</span>
"nuclear deterrence discriminates...doom our descendants"

nuclear weapons and deterrence hold people hostage
<span style="color: black;">Steven P. Lee—April 1985. [Teaches Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, University of Chicago Press, 594-566.</span>
"hostages are persons...kind of case"

cont 2 is nuclear war

accidental launch is very possible
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0in;">Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth Nikitin—February 2010 [Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service] “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. Congress Research Service </span>
"the security of...threats and accidents"

possession of nuclear weapons puts people in danger of nuclear winter
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0in;">The Editors of Scientific American, Summary of Robock and Toon’s “Local Nuclear War, Global Suffering,” Scientific American (January 2010), </span>
"nuclear bombs dropped...models are correct"


===**technostrategic discourse aff**=== 

v: morality


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ethical absolutes are necessary</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Grisez, Germain and Russell Shaw. __Absolutism and its Consequentialist Critics__ "Persons, Means, and Ends". Rowman and Littlefield publishers: Maryland, 1994p.24</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"no ethical absolutes...against other values"</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">util is insufficient in discussions of nuclear weapons</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Moral principles and nuclear weapons</span>** <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">By Douglas P. Lackey p 25</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">"the standard moral...desired or foreseen"</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">vc: pres agency</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">First is stewarship</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">a)</span>Possession of nuclear weapons today is characterized by stockpile stewardship. Masco 1</span>

<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-family: AdvP932A; mso-fareast-font-family: AdvP932A;">(page 358)<span style="background: silver;">Masco, </span></span>**<span style="background: silver; font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: AdvP932A; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold; mso-fareast-font-family: AdvP932A;">Joseph (Associate Prof of Anthropology at University of Chicago). "Nuclear Technoaesthetics." //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">American Ethnologist</span>// 31.3 (2004): 349-73.</span> </span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"The Clinton Administration...state-of-the-art computer systems"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">b)Stewardship entails a focus on maintenance and simulation. Masco 2</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">"instead of continuing...US nuclear machines"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">c) Simulations are all about scientific research and simulations to model nuclear detonations. Masco 3</span>
"If the Cold War...decades of storage"

d) <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"> Testing regimes shifted towards a deemphasizing of the bomb, which disguises its true nature. masco 4</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">"I have argued...only prevent conflict"</span>


<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">SECOND, technostrategic discourse destroys understandings of defense regimes.</span>

<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">a) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Technostrategic discourse warps views of and approaches to nuclear force</span>

<span style="mso-fareast-language: AR-SA; mso-font-kerning: .5pt;">Cohn, Carol **Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals**</span> //<span style="mso-fareast-language: AR-SA; mso-font-kerning: .5pt;">Signs</span>//<span style="mso-fareast-language: AR-SA; mso-font-kerning: .5pt;">, Vol. 12, No. 4, Within and Without: Women, Gender, and Theory. (Summer, 1987), pp. 687-718.</span>
<span style="mso-fareast-language: AR-SA; mso-font-kerning: .5pt;">"Anyone who has...targets shoe factories"</span>

<span style="mso-fareast-language: AR-SA; mso-font-kerning: .5pt;">b) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">The language of technostrategic discourse creates a dichotomy between the image propagated by defense and the reality of the rule of nuclear devices. Cohn 2 </span>
"these phrases, only...scalpels spill blood"

<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">THIRD is the effect on rational political action.</span>
<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">skewed positive understandings of defense prevent rational, logical approaches </span>**</span>

Nanda 97. <span style="font-weight: normal;">“In Defense of History.” John Bellamy Foster, researcher for the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Pgs 84-85. </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">"Thus, I have...ever be questioned" </span>

<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">FOURTH is the denial of human worth via prioritization of nuclear weapons. Masco 5</span>
<span style="text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">"the vulnerable body...post-Cold War period"</span>





= = 
= = 
=Negative= 

===nuclear instruments of genocide cp=== 
Counterplan text: states ought not possess nuclear instruments of genocide

theoretical legitimacy

competition:
a) exclusivity

b) net benefits
Use of the term "weapons" is inaccurate 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">Gates (John M, Professor of History – Wooster College, “The U.S. Army and Irregular 1Warfare,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.so]]</span>com.mil/iw/groups/IW_related_ docs/The%20US%20Army%20and% 20Irregular%20Warfare_Full% 20Book.pdf) </span>

"the use of...use in combat"

the term "nuclear weapon" bolsters 
Hallett and Summy 2

"the tool of...be changed radically"

the term "nuclear weapon" <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">fuels elite-cooption and sanitizes the horrors of nuclear war</span>
<span style="color: #333333; margin-bottom: 0in;">Hallett and Summy 3 </span>
<span style="color: #333333; margin-bottom: 0in;">"to escape this...dominant power perspective"</span>

<span style="color: #333333; margin-bottom: 0in;">solvency:</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">The CP is the only check against inevitable nuclear war</span>
<span style="color: #333333; margin-bottom: 0in;">Hallett and Summy 4</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">"despite the ending...framed the debate"</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">changing the rhetoric in the nuclear debate enables broad support</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">hallett and summy 5</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; tab-stops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt; text-autospace: none;">"if the peace...construed by language"</span>


===**toolbox nc**=== 


Obligations must be consistent with the identity of the actor

Nations exist to promote natl interest
<span style="mso-layout-grid-align: none; mso-pagination: none; text-autospace: none;">Kennan, <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">George F., “Morality and Foreign Policy,” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Foreign Affairs, Vol. 64, No. 2, pp. 205-218 </span>//Winter 1985, JStor (</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT; mso-bidi-font-size: 12.0pt;">Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.)</span></span>
“the interests of…basis of them”

states must be prepared to defend their citizens, therefore nuclear force is a permissible option for states
<span style="tab-stops: 207.0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Waltz</span>**, Kenneth. //The Anarchic Structure of World Politics//. __Theory of International Politics.__ Addison-Wesley: Massachusetts 1979</span>
“the state among…occurrence of violence”



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==