[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Observation 1: The Violent Future of the Status Quo Exceptionalism

The Spectre of Vietnam continues to this day. It has manifested itself in the US's "War on Terror" and the attacks on Iraq and Afghanistan. Supported by the media and the neo-conservative elite, Americans have willfully forgot the devestation that has been wrecked in the name of American exceptionalism. Failure to resist America's errand in the wilderness will lead to human extinction.
Spanos '08 (William, professor of English at Binghampton Univ, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Gloabalization: Th eSpectre of Vietnam, ISBN:978-0-7914-7289-7 p. IX-X)
In this book...idea of America.

And the hegemonic discourse perpetuated through this mindset of American exceptionalism creates a binary logic of the "Other" who must be destroyed.
Spanos '08 (William, professor of English at Binghampton Univ, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Gloabalization: Th eSpectre of Vietnam, ISBN:978-0-7914-7289-7 p. IX-X)
This scene of... name of America.

This binary logic concludes itself in the utopian vision of an Americanized worldview where anybody who lies outside of that world view is destroyed, creating a cycle of mass violence.
Stravrkakis '03 (Yannis, "Re-Activating the Democratic Revolution: The Politics of Transformation Beyond Reoccupation and Conformism.", Parallax Vol. 9, No.2)
In fact, whenever...the kulaks, etc).

Plan: 
Resolved: The United States Federal government should remove all military and police presence from Iraq and Afghanistan. (Policy)

OR

Advocacy statement
Thus, in response to the question "Should the United States Federal Government substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in Iraq and Afghanistan?", we believe this question can only be answered through a personal rejection of the present day manifestations of American exceptionalism Iraq and Afghanistan.

Observation 2: A Way Out

Before jumping to action, we must analyze the paradigm established in Vietnam to effectively criticize and break down American Imperialist action in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Spanos '08 (William, professor of English at Binghampton Univ, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Gloabalization: Th eSpectre of Vietnam, ISBN:978-0-7914-7289-7 p. XV)

And our affirmative is crucial to undermine the larger metaphysical construction of American exceptionalism and imperialism.
Spanos '08 (William, professor of English at Binghampton Univ, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Gloabalization: Th eSpectre of Vietnam, ISBN:978-0-7914-7289-7 p. IX-X)

However, we can't just live in the past. Only looking at Vietnam doesn't change the status quo. Rather, we must use Vietnam as a lens to criticize the current atrocities in Iraq and Afghanistan. Only then can we truly break down the hegemonic discourse of the status quo.
Spanos '08 (William, professor of English at Binghampton Univ, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Gloabalization: Th eSpectre of Vietnam, ISBN:978-0-7914-7289-7 p. 184)

Finally, our affirmative has to be the first step for any type of social change or critical thinking- Post Cold-War Liberal-Democratic Thinking and policy action shut out all other forms of worldviews as an imperialist attempt to criticize thinking. We must break out of this flawed ontology to have any hope for the future. This means all the negative impacts are inevitable absent our affirmative. 
Spanos '08 (William, professor of English at Binghampton Univ, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Gloabalization: Th eSpectre of Vietnam, ISBN:978-0-7914-7289-7 p. 22)



=[[2ac Answers]]= 

=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">[[K OF DAS]]</span>= 
THE MENTALITY OF THEIR DISAD IMPACTS CREATES A DRIVE TO CONSTATNLY SECURE OUR LIVES FRORM DISTANT THREATS. THIS REPLICATES THE HARMS THEY’RE TRYING TO PREVENT WHILE DESTROYING THE MEANING TO LIFE
JAMES DER DERIAN 95 “ON SECURITY” P35
THE DESIRE FOR SECURITY IS MANIFESTED…MISTRUST AND EVIL EXPERIENCES”
THEIR PORTRAYAL OF FUTURE CATASTROPHES IGNORES THE SYSTEMIC VIOLENCE THAT GOES ON EVERY DAY AS A RESULT OF GOVERNMENTAL EXPLOITATION. THIS VIOLENCE NOT ONLY OUTWEIGHS THEIR POSSIBLE IMPACTS, BUT ALSO MAKES THEM INEVITABLE.
SLAVOJ ZIZEK 2008 “VIOLENCE” P1-2
IF THERE IS A UNIFYING…EXPLOSIONS OF SUBJECTIVE VIOLENCE.
THE IRONY OF SECURITY IS THAT IT DELIVERS WHAT IT SEEKS TO PREVENT. REDUCING THE VALUE TO LIFE TO MERE EXISTENCE CAUSES CYCLES OF VIOLENCE THAT END IN EXTINCTION. DILLION 96, “POLITICS OF SECURITY: TOWARDS A POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY OF CONTINENTAL THOUGHT”, P150-151
“ONE HAS ONE’S BEING TO BE…IT, FOR QUELLING VIOLENCE”
THIS BINARY LOGIC CONCLUDES ITSELF IN THE UTOPIAN VISION OF AN AMERICANIZED WORLDVIEW WHERE ANYBODY WHO LIES OUTSIDE OF THAT WORLD VIEW IS DESTROYED, CREATING AN ENDLESS CYCLE OF MASS VIOLENCE
YANNIS STAVRAKAKIS 2003 “RE-ACTIVATING THE DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTION: THE POLITICS OF TRANSFORMATION BEYOND REOCCUPATION AND CONFORMISM”, PARALLAX VOL 9 NO 2
“IN FACT, WHENEVER A CONSCIOUS ATTEMPT …BE IT THE JEWS, THE KULAKS, ETC.

=<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__[[K OF HEG|Kritik of Heg]]__**</span></span>= 

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
1. US HEGEMONY IS A PRIME EXAMPLE OF THE AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALISM THAT WE KRITIK, HEGEMONY IS THE IDEA THAT THE US HAS THE RIGHT TO COERCE THE HEATHEN, WHICH OTEHRWISE WOULD BLATANTLY DOOM THE HUMAN RACE TO EXTINCTION, TO FOLLOW THE RULES OF THE CIVILIZED CULTURE. THIS FUELS FURTHER MILITARY INTERVENTION REIFYING THEIR HARMS.
2. YOU SHOULD PREFER OUR IMPACTS TO THEIRS. A. OUR IMPACTS ARE SYSTEMIC-US HEGEMONY HAS LED TO A LOT OF BAD STUFF. B. ALL OF THEIR ARGS ABOUT WHY HEG CAN STOP WAR AND STUFF ARE ONLY THEORETICAL, MEANING THAT THEY PROVE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THEIR HEGEMONY BY WHAT HASN’T HAPPENED, WHILE IGNORING THE MANY ATROCITIES THAT IT HAS CAUSED. THIS SEVERELY UNDREMINES THEIR “SOLVENCY” AND IMPACT TURNS ALL OF THEIR UNIQUENESS CLAIMS ABOUT STATUS QUO WAR PREVENTION.
3. US HEGEMONY POLICY IS DEEPLY ROOTED IN PATRIARCHAL, RACIST AND MILITARIST ASSUMPTIONS, RESULTING IN DEHUMANIZATION, MURDER, AND SEXUAL ASSAULT
GWYN KIRK “GENDER AND U.S. BASES IN ASIA-PACIFIC” MARCH 14
MILITARISM IS A SYSTEM OF INSTITUTIONS…FORCED INTO THE FEMINIZED ROLE.
4. THEIR HEGEMONIC IMPOSITION OF AN AMERICAN GLOBAL SYSTEM CULMINATES IN THREAT CONSTRUCTION, GENERATING ENEMIES AND ENSURING ENDLESS CONFLICTS AND WAR WHERE NONE EXISTED PREVIOUSLY
RONNIE LIPSCHUTZ “ON SECURITY” 15-16
CONSIDER, THEN, THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE…PRODUCT CYCLE – UNDERMINES THE ABILITY.
5. U.S. HEG CAN’T SOLVE ANYTHING, OUR AUTHOR INDICATES THAT THS U.S. FORCEFULLY FORGETS THE FAILURE OF ITS PAST AND CURRENT MILITARY INTERVENTIONS SUCH AS VIETNAM, IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span><span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
=<span style="text-align: center;"><span style="display: block; text-align: center;">**__[[AT FRAMEWORK|a2: Framework]]__**</span></span>= 

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
OUR INTERPRETATION IS THAT THIS ROUND SHOULD NOT BE ABOUT ANALYZING THE IMPLICATIONS OF A GOVERNMENT POLICY, BUT THE POLITICIZATION OF DEBATE
1. FIAT IS A LIE—MILITARY PRESENCE WOULN’T ACTUALLY BE REMOVED FROM ANY OF THE SIX TOPIC COUNTRIES—FIAT ONLY REINTRENCHES A FORM OF DEBATE THAT ENCOURAGES ABNEGATION OF RESPONSBILITY
2. EDUCATION - FIRST WE ARE NOT OUT TO DETROY POLICY DEBATE HOWEVER THE IMPULES TO LIMIT DEBATE TO POLICY DISCUSSION CUTS DEBATE OFF FROM NEW IDEAS. THIS STRANGLEHOLD HAS CREATED DEBATERS RELIANT ON THEIR TUBS COMPETING IN A GIANT STALE RACE TO THE BOTTOM—IN AN ATTEMPT TO CREATE A PREDICTABLE FORM OF DEBATE WE IGNORE DEBATES VALUE IN ITS POSSIBILITY AND ALLOWING CRITICAL THOGUH AND NEW MODES OF EDUCATION WHICH ARE PREREQUISTIES TO NEGATIVE STANDARDS.
3. DISSENT—THE LANGUAGE OF FRAMEWORK IS A FORM OF IDENTITY-LANGUAGE THAT SEEKS TO FIND TRUTH. THIS IS AN IMPOSSIBLE AND DANGEROUS GAME THAT WORKS TO EXCLUDE MORE EFFECTIVE UNDERSTANDING OF THE WORLD WHILE QUELLING DISSENT AND MICROPOLITICS.
ROLAND BLEIKER 2000, “POPULAR DISSENT, HUMAN AGENCY AND GLOBAL POLITICS” 2000
“THE DOMAIN OF GLOBAL POLITICS…IN WHICH THEY ARE PRESENTED.
4. AGENCY—DISCOURSE IS AN INEVITABLE PART OF POLITICS—THE NEGATIVE’S FRAMEWORK EXCLUDES INDIVIDUAL AGENCY FROM THE DISCUSSION, WHICH ONLY REINSCRIBES THE VERY SYSTEMS OF DOMINATION WE CRITICIZE AND MAKES THEIR IMPACTS INVITABLE.
ROLAND BLEIKER 2003 PROFESSOR OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HARVARD AND CAMBRIDGE, DISCOURSE AND HUMAN AGENCY, PALGRAVE MAVMILLAN, 2003 P 27-28
‘IT IS WITHIN DISCOURSE,’ ONE OF…UNREASON THEREBY BECOMES IMPROBABLE.
THE IMPACT IS INEVITABLE VIOLENCE—ABSOLVING INDIVIDUALS FROM THEIR RESPONSBILITY TO COMMIT VIOLENCE BY ONLY FOCUSING ON HIGH POLITICS NOT ONLY MAKES VIOLENCE INEVITABLE, BUT UNIQUELY INCREASES IT.
SUSANNE KAPPELER 95, “THE WILL TO VIOLENCE: THE POLITICS OF PERSONAL BEHAVIOR” P2-4
VIOLENCE IS PERCEIVED AS A PHENOMENON…ASSUME TO BE A ZONE OF NON-VIOLENCE. 
5. KNOWLEDGE PRODUCTION—OUR SPANOS EV SAYS THAT THE AMERICAN GOVERNMENT AND MEDIA HAS CREATED A POST VIETNMA WORLD WHERE AMIERCAN FAILURE WAS FORGOTTEN. THIS HAS CONSEQUENTLY SHAPED THE WAY WE VIEW THE WORLD. IF THERE IS ANY HOPE OFCREATING EFFECTIE GOVERNMENT POLICY, WE MUST FIRST CHANGE THE WAY IN WHICH WE COME TO KNOW THE WORLD AND HOW WE PERSONALLY IMPLICATE IN GOVERNMENT POLICIES THIS IS THE BEST WAY TO POLITICIZE DEBATE
6. ONTOLOGY IS AN IENVITABLE PART OF DEBATE, IT’S ONLY A QUESTION OF BEING COGNISENT OF HOW INDIVIDUALS POLITICIZATION HABITS CREATE LARGER SOCIETAL PROBLEMS – DILLON 99 “ANOTHER JUSTICE” __POLITICAL THEORY__
“THE RETURN OF THE ONTOLOGICAL WAS…QUESTION OF THE POLITICAL ITSELF”
7. PREDICTABILITY—LITERATURE DIRECTLY DISCUSSES US MILITARY PRESENCE IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTNA. YOU STILL HAVE ALL YOUR GROUND THAT SAYS PRESENCE GOOD AND OTHERWISE
8. THEIR FRAMEWORK IS ONLY AN ATTEMPT TO DICTATE THE IMPACTS THAT THE AFFIRMATIVE CAN CLAIM—THIS IS ARBITRARY BECAUSE THIS LITERALLY JUSTIFIES THE NEGATIVE LIMITING THE AFF TO WHATEVER IMPACTS THEY HAVE THE MOST LITERATURE ON.
NOW, OUR DEFENSE
FIRST—NO REASON WHY DEBAET IS KEY FOR DISCUSSIONS OF THE PASSAGE OF GOVERNMENT POLICY ALL THEIR IMPACTS CAN BE SOLVED WITH A COPYU OF THE ECONOMIST
SECOND—NO TERMIANL IMAPCT TO THE DEATH OF TRADITIONAL POLICY DEBATE-MAKE THEM COMPARE THEIR IMPACTS OF FRAMEWORK TO THE IMPACTS OF THE 1AC BECAUSE INDIVIDUAL AGENCY CAN EXIST BEYOND DEBATE, BUT NOT VICE VERSA
THIRD—THEY STILL HAVE PLENTY OF OFFENSE—WE HAVE SPECIFIC LITERATURE TIEING OUR ADVOCACY TO THE RESOLUTION – THEY CAN STILL HAVE ALL THEIR REASONS WHY MILITARY PRESENCE IS GOOD
FOURTH-EDUCATION OUTWEIGHS PREDICTABILITY: THE IMPACT TO PREDICTABILITY IS CLASH, BUT THAT IS INEVTIABLE SINCE WE DEFEND A RESOLUTIONALLY BASED ADVOCACY.

=<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">A2: UTIL / CALCULATIVE THOUGHT</span>= 
<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. The calculative thought implicit in their utilitarian framework renders its subjects as mere numbers and assigning them value only when their existence is threatened. This reveals the dark underside to their metaphysics that destroys the value to life and makes their impacts impossible to solve.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;"><span class="Stylecite10ptNotBold"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">Haynes 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John D., Professorial Visiting Fellow School of Information Systems, Technology and Management University of New South Wales, “Calculative Thinking and Essential Thinking in Heidegger’s Phenomenology,” http://wwwdocs.fce.unsw.edu.au/sistm/staff/Heidegger_calculation_essential_March08.pdf)</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">In Heidegger’s work “What is …<span class="Styleunderline"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">whose truth no “logic” can grasp</span></span><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;">.</span></span>
<span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; margin-left: 31.5pt; text-indent: -0.25in;">2. By trying to grasp the world, caculative thought only further distances our experience from the reality of the world, making real change impossible and reinscribing exceptionalist domination. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="cite"><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%; font-size: 12pt;">Brown and Toadvine 3</span></span><span style="-moz-background-clip: border; -moz-background-inline-policy: continuous; -moz-background-origin: padding; background: yellow none repeat scroll 0% 0%;"> (</span>Charles S. and Ted, “Eco-phenomenology : Back to the Earth Itself,”)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">It is worth pondering whether … destroys our authentic relation to things."23</span>

----


=<span style="border: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.6em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px;">**Negative**</span>= 


St. Marks Tournament vs. Heritage Hall HS (Japan BMD)

__1NC__
**T-Presence**
**T-Substantial**
**CP Text:** The United States Missile Defense Agency Will No Longer Receive Funding From Congress, but the Missile Defense Agency Will Continue Cooperation With Japan On Ballistic Missile Defense.
**Appeasement DA**
**Security K**
**Case**

__Block__
**T-Presence**
**CP**
**Appeasement DA**
**Security K**
**Case**

__2NR__
**Security K**



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]