[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">**Negative**</span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: Times;">V-M </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Korsgaard defines Practical Rationality </span>
<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;">Korsgaard, C. M. 1996: Sources of Normativity. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. </span>
<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Times;">“Our knowledge of…endorse that desire” </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">All moral principle must stem from practical rationality. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Kant, Immanuel. Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">“It is utterly… be derived rationally” </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">In order to make unbiased and rational decisions moral agents must place themselves behind a veil of ignorance. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Freeman, Samuel [Samuel Freeman is Professor of Philosophy and Law, University of Pennsylvania.] “Rawls” Taylor & Francis US, 2007 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">“The remedy of…equal moral persons” </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Behind the veil of ignorance moral agents would rationally choose to be risk-averse and guarantee basic goods to them. </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">Freeman, Samuel [Samuel Freeman is Professor of Philosophy and Law, University of Pennsylvania.] “Rawls” Taylor & Francis US, 2007 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">“It is often…principles of utility” </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">VC- Arranging society on a principle that would benefit the least well off </span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Contention 1- War on Drugs racist and increase drug use and AIDS</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Kathleen R. Sandy, “The Discrimination Inherent in America's Drug War: Hidden Racism Revealed by Examining the Hysteria over Crack”, 54 Ala. L. Rev. 665, 672 (2003).</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;"> "Bias in our...over crack babies"</span>
"Furthmore it would...house drug war"

<span style="font-family: Times;">Galea S, Vlahov D. Social determinants and the health of drug users: socioeconomic status, homelessness, and incarceration. Public Health Rep 2002;117:S135–45. [PubMed: 12435837]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">"Injection drug use...and unprotected intercourse"</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1 </span>
<span style="font-family: Times;"> "Injection drug users...in HIV prevention"</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Marsch, Lisa A. [Senior Principal Investigator at the National Development and Research Institute] “The efficacy of methadone maintenance interventions in reducing illicit opiate use, HIV risk behavior and criminality: a meta-analysis” Addiction (93) 4 pp. 515-532. (1998)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">"Specifically given a...and statistical significance"</span>

<span style="font-family: Times;">Ajakaiye, Oju “Climate Change” http://www.aercafrica.org/documents/researchnews/rn10-final.pdf 2007</span>
<span style="font-family: Times;">"There was intense...in the future"</span>


==Negative== 
**Punishment must be a proportional response for wrongdoing**

<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Steiker, Carol L. “No, Capital Punishment is Not Morally Required: Deterrence, Deontology, and the Death Penalty.” //Harvard Law School Public Law Paper no. 125.// <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=859384]]</span>> (2005).</span>
“A venerable deontological…the offender’s wrongdoing”

Any punishment paradigm not based on desert dehumanizes the wrongdoer
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">C.S. Lewis, //The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment.//</span>
“ The reason is…patient, a case.”

Substance abuse harms the user of drugs and others around them definitionally:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dorlands.com/wsearch.jsp?searchtype=words&searchterm=substance%20abuse]]</span>> </span>
“Substance abuse: a…in legal problems.”

vc: maintaining proportional punishment

Drug users are autonomous.
<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Bennett Foddy and Julian Savulescu. “A Liberal Account of Addiction” //Philosophy, Psychiatry and Psychology// 17, 1. (2010)</span>
“When a person…static over time.”

A public health approach strays away from proportionally punishing offenders.
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;">Transform drug policy foundation. After The War on Drugs: Options for Control (2006) <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tdpf.org.uk/Transform_After_the_War_on_Drugs.pdf]]</span></span>
“The emergence of…unregulated street dealers.”


=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]