[[toc]]
=September-October= 

==Affirmative== 
**Inviolability AC**
Ought- M.O. 
Moral-relating to right and wrong. 
Aff burden is to prove a moral prohibition upon the possession of nukes. 
V- Morality
Rationality means that people have the ability to reflect upon their actions. Christine Korsgaard [Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy Director of Graduate Studies] __The Sources of Normativity__ Lecture 3 - “The Authority of Reflection.” , June 28, 1996. http://dash.harvard.edu/bitstream/handle/1/3710397/Korsgaard_SourcesNormativity.pdf, 79. 

Our intrinsic value derives from rational decision-making. Thomas E. Hill, Jr. “Kantian Constructivism in Ethics.” //Ethics//, Vol. 99, No. 4 (Jul., 1989), pp. 767 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|www.jstor.org]]</span>. “Autonomy is a controversial…end in itself.”

Harm to others represents a contradiction of reason. Gregory S. Kavka. Moral Paradoxes of Nuclear Weapons (New York: Press Syndicate of the University of Cambridge, 1987) p. 23 www.books.google.com “Let us return…entails having it).”

Individuals have the autonomy to control their own actions. 
Quinn, Warren S., [Professor of Philosophy at UCLA, 1968-91] “Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing,” //Killing and Letting Die//, 2nd. Ed. (ed. Norcross, A. and Steinbock, B.) New York: Fordham University Press, 1994. (Originally published in //Philosophical Review// 98, no. 3 (July 1989)). pp. 308, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|www.jstor.org]]</span>
"An object does not belong...in the collective whole."

The standard is preserving the inviolability of persons. 

Consequentialism denies humans their intrinsic worth. Germain Grisez and Russell Shaw, [Flynn Professor of Christian Ethics at Mount Saint Mary’s College, and Columnist for Catholic Herald] //Absolutism and its Consequentialist Critics//, ed. Joram Graf Haber, pub 1994, pp. 26. "One arrives at...measurement, weighing, and balancing." 

By not evaluating intent, the ends of any action will eventually deteriorate. Immanuel Kant and Lara Denis. __The Groundwork of the Meta Physics of Morals__. (1785) Google Books, pp. 55. "Intelligence, wit, judgment...been without it." 

Contention 1: Possession diminishes the worth of humans. 
The ultimate goal of nuclear weapons is deterrence. Committee on International Security and Arms Control and National Academy of Sciences. __The Future of U.S. Nuclear Weapons Policy__ June 13, 1997. Google Books, pp. 4. "In all likelihood...as the result."

Subpoint A is hostage holding
Steven Lee [chairman of the philosophy department at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. “The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences,”//Ethics//, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 553 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|http://www.jstor.org]]</span>. “It can be found…of hostage holding.”

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---H]]Hostage holding is immoral because it violates the autonomy of innocents. Steven Lee [chairman of the philosophy department at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. “The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences,”//Ethics//, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 554 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|http://www.jstor.org]]</span> “Second, nuclear deterrence… risk of harm.”

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---S]]Subpoint B is retaliation. 
[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---A]]A countries’ acceptance to retaliate and kill millions of innocents is still inherently immoral and institutionalizes the violation of rights. Robert P. Churchill [Associate professor of philosophy at George Washington University] “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue.” Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 51 jSTOR “Yet even if…for human survival.”

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---E]]Even if they strive towards good ends, the intent is still evil. Robert P. Churchill [Associate professor of philosophy at George Washington University] “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue.” Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 52 jSTOR “Yet it might…to be consumed” 

Contention 2: Nuclear testing violates the intrinsic worth of individuals. 
Nuclear testing has been happening for 60 years. 
//War and Public Health// By: Victor Sidel [Distinguished University Professor of Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine] , Barry Levy. Dec. 14, 2007 Google Books, pp. 158-159."During the 60 years...across the world."

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---T]]Testing results violates the rights off innocents. //War and Public Health// By: Victor Sidel [Distinguished University Professor of Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine] , Barry Levy. Dec. 14, 2007. Google Books, pp. 160 “The primary human… among future generations.”
==Affirmative== 

**Conseq AC**
Ought-M.O.
V-Morality

Because a state has intentions, it is a moral agent. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas Donaldson.[ Thomas Donaldson is the Mark O. Winkelman Professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.] International Deontology defended: A response ot Russell Hardin. Published in Ethics and International Affairs 1995. Vol. 9."that the state can...satisfy this condition." </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Treating people as moral equals requires looking to the ends of our actions. </span>Erick Mack. “In Defense of ‘Unbridled’ Freedom of Contract.” //The American Journal of Economics and Sociology//, Vol. 40, Is. 1. (Jan. 1981).www.jstor.org, pp. 4. "Among individuals there...that other's will."
The standard is minimizing harm. 

Contention 1: Nuclear testing
Nuclear testing has been happening for 60 years. 
//War and Public Health// By: Victor Sidel [Distinguished University Professor of Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine] , Barry Levy. Dec. 14, 2007 Google Books, pp. 158-159."During the 60 years...across the world."
[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---T]]Testing results violates the rights off innocents. //War and Public Health// By: Victor Sidel [Distinguished University Professor of Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine] , Barry Levy. Dec. 14, 2007. Google Books, pp. 160 “The primary human… among future generations.”

Contention 2: Nuclear accidents.
The possibility of an accident is inherent due to the complexity of the weapons themselves. 
__Apocalypse Never: Forging the Path to a Nuclear-Free Weapon World__ BY: Tad Daley [Writing Fellow, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, 1985 Nobel Peace Laureate Organization] April 15, 2010. Google Books, pp. 83. "The is substantial...others as well.'

Historical evidence shows that a nuclear accidental war is very possible. __Apocalypse Never: Forging the Path to a Nuclear-Free Weapon World__ BY: Tad Daley [Writing Fellow, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, 1985 Nobel Peace Laureate Organization] April 15, 2010. Google Books, pp. 69. "Hundreds of similar...minutes too late?"

Accidental nuclear war would kill millions. ACCIDENTAL NUCLEAR WAR — A POST–COLD WAR ASSESSMENT BY LACHLAN FORROW, M.D., BRUCE G. BLAIR, PH.D., IRA HELFAND, M.D., GEORGE LEWIS, PH.D., THEODORE POSTOL, PH.D., VICTOR SIDEL, M.D., BARRY S. LEVY, M.D., HERBERT ABRAMS, M.D., AND CHRISTINE CASSEL, M.D. NEJM Special Report, 1998. http://www.nejm.org/doi/pdf/10.1056/NEJM199804303381824. "Table 1 shows...by the firestorms."

Contention 3: Escalation of conflict.
Nuclear weapons cause an increase in conflict between nations. Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation Author(s): Daniel S. Geller [Dr. Daniel S. Geller is Professor and Chair of the Department of Political Science at Wayne State University and a consultant with the U.S. Department of State, Office of Technology and Assessments. ] Source: The Journal of Conflict Resolution, Vol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990), Published by: Sage Publications, Inc. Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/174196. pp. 292. "This analysis has...and violent one." 

Geller concludes in his study that conflict is up to seven times more likely to occur. 

Contention 4: Nuclear terrorism
Subpoint A: Stolen weapons. 
Terrorists can steal weapons from nuclear facilities. “Nuclear Terrorism.” Ira Helfland, Lachlan Forrow, Jaya Tiwari. [Three members of International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War and Physicians for Social Responsibility] **BMJ** VOLUME 324 9 FEBRUARY 2002 http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Reed-POL-422-2009-S3_NP/Syllabus/EReadings/13.1.Terror-Further_HelfandForrow2002Nuclear.pdf. pp. 356. "There is clear...uranium or plutonium."

Subpoint B: Rogue states. 
Rogue nations have the capability of supplying terrorists with nuclear weapons. __A Devil’s Triangle: Terrorism, Weapons of Mass Destruction, and Rogue States__ by Peter Brookes [Senior Fellow, National Security Affairs and Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies]. Published 2005. Google Books, pp. 56. "But with the...disputes in Kashmir."

The impact is severe. “Nuclear Terrorism.” Ira Helfland, Lachlan Forrow, Jaya Tiwari. [Three members of International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War and Physicians for Social Responsibility] **BMJ** VOLUME 324 9 FEBRUARY 2002 http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Reed-POL-422-2009-S3_NP/Syllabus/EReadings/13.1.Terror-Further_HelfandForrow2002Nuclear.pdf. pp. 357. "Using the CATS...of radiation sickness."

Contention 5: Electromagnetic Pulses
Nations can launch nuclear weapons into the air, creating an electromagnetic pulse. “The Electronic Pearl Harbor.” Monday, 20 September 2010 Ryan Mauro - Right Side News. http://www.rightsidenews.com/2010092011681/us/homeland-security/the-electronic-pearl-harbor.html
"One of the...an EMP attack."

An EMP attack would be devastating. 
Report of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) Attack Volume 1: Executive Report 2004 Dr. John S. Foster, Jr. Mr. Earl Gjelde Dr. William R. Graham (Chairman) Dr. Robert J. Hermann Mr. Henry (Hank) M. Kluepfel GEN Richard L. Lawson, USAF (Ret.) Dr. Gordon K. Soper Dr. Lowell L. Wood, Jr. Dr. Joan B. Woodard. http://www.empcommission.org/docs/empc_exec_rpt.pdf, pp. 1. "The high-altitude nuclear...support its population."
==Negative== 
**Deterrence NC** 
Ought - M.O. 
V- Governmental legitimacy
Context is necessary for a proper evaluation of the round. 

In order for a government to be considered legitimate, it must protect the interests of the country. **Morgenthau, Hans [University of Chicago political science professor] //Politics Among Nations: The Struggle for Power and Peace//, Fifth Edition, Revised, (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1978, pp. 12)** "Realism maintains that...virtue in politics."

The standard is minimizing conflict. Maintaining stability in the international sphere is crucial.

Sole contention is that nuclear weapons minimizes conflict through deterrence. 
Nuclear weapons have empirically succeeded in reducing violence. Robert Rauchhaus [Professor in the Department of Political Science, US Santa Barbara], //Evaluating the Nuclear Peace: A Quantitative Analysis// Journal of Conflict Resolution. Vol. 53, no. 2, Apr 2009 [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/uploads/Rauchhaus_Evaluating_the_Nuclear_Peace.pdf|http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/uploads/Rauchhaus_Evaluating_the_Nuclear_Peace.pdf ]]

pp. 16-17. "The results of...possess nuclear weapons."

Nuclear deterrence will not result in a nuclear strike. Waltz, Kenneth [University of California, Berkeley]. Nuclear Myths and Political Realities. American Political Science Review, Vol. 84 No. 3 Sept 1990. www.jstor.org, pp. 733. "Despite widespread beliefs...happen in the end."


Conventional war has historically led to millions of deaths. Tertrais, Bruno [senior research fellow at the Fondation pour la Recherche Stratégique in Paris]. “The Illogic of Zero.” //The Washington Quarterly// 33 no. 2 (April 2010), pp. 127. http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_Tertrais.pdf. "The equivalent destructive power...powers seems unlikely."

**States Are Not Moral Actors Off**
"Ought Not" indicates a prohibition, negating this prohibition means permissibility. Richard Robinson “Ought and Ought Not.” //Philosophy//, Vol. 46, No. 177 (Jul., 1971), pp. 199 Cambridge University Press on behalf of Royal Institute of Philosophy [[http://www.jstor.org/|http://www.jstor.org.]]
"The moral ought...both be false."

The burden of the affirmative is to prove that nations have a moral obligation to not possess nuclear weapons.


States are not moral agents and thus cannot be morally prohibited from taking an action.

The affirmative framework hinges on the existence of some sort of moral system. Lloyd Gerson. “The Morality of Nations: An Aristotelian Approach.” Published in //Aristotle’s Politics Today//, compiled by Lenn E. Goodman and Robert B. Talisse. Albany: SUNY Press, 2007. Google Books, pp. 79. "Nations are themselves...applied to the jungle."

Because a state as a construct is not aware of its actions, it cannot be a moral actor. Lloyd Gerson. “The Morality of Nations: An Aristotelian Approach.” Published in //Aristotle’s Politics Today//, compiled by Lenn E. Goodman and Robert B. Talisse. Albany: SUNY Press, 2007. Google Books, pp. 82. "Intentionality in the..a moral agent."


A nation's purpose is expressed within the people and not within the construct itself. Lloyd Gerson. “The Morality of Nations: An Aristotelian Approach.” Published in //Aristotle’s Politics Today//, compiled by Lenn E. Goodman and Robert B. Talisse. Albany: SUNY Press, 2007. Google Books, pp. 84. "Another way to...that it won."






==Negative== 
**EMP DA**
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">A. Uniqueness. </span>
Terrorists have the desire to obtain nuclear weapons. Matthew Bunn, //Securing the Bomb//, Nuclear Threat Initiative (2008), 4-5. “Do terrorists want…in the future.”
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">B. Links.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. Reprocessing nukes increases risk of theft. Edwin Lyman, “Nuclear Reprocessing: Dangerous, Dirty, and Expensive,” ucsusa.org (2008). “Less than 20…500 metric tons.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> 2. Theft is more likely when weapons are not deployed. Rajesh Basrur and Friedrich Steinhausler, “NUCLEAR AND RADIOLOGICAL TERRORISM THREATS FOR INDIA: RISK POTENTIAL AND COUNTERMEASURES,” //Journal of Physical Security// (2004), 4. “Unassembled weapons keep…be relatively safer.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> 3. Terrorists will use them for an EMP attack. Right Side News (2010). “One of the…the more pressing.”</span>
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">C. Impacts</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. Nuclear weapons are capable of electromagnetic pulses that have vast effects. Jerry Emanuelson, “Nuclear Electromagnetic Pulse,” //Futurescience.com// (2010). “The E1 component…entire affected area.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> 2. The probably of an EMP attack is high. Emanuelson 2, “Nuclear Electromagnetic Pulse.” //Futurescience.com// (2010). “This site is…the United States.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> 3. The effects of an EMP attack are complete technological destruction. “National Energy Grid Threatened by EMP Attack,” Right Side News (2010). “A blast this…an EMP attack.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;"> 4. An EMP blackout outweighs nuke war. “National Energy Grid Threatened by EMP Attack,” Right Side News (2010). “The Congressional EMP…all those people.”</span>
=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]