[[toc]]
We are affiliated with Capitol Debate, so, since I'm probably forgetting something, you can check the wikis for Centennial, River Hill, Richard Montgomery, McDonogh, Marriotts Ridge, Mt Hebron, and a bunch of other schools in Howard County, MD, because we run similar things.

=Affirmative= 

<span style="font-weight: normal;">1AC</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Contention One is The Status Quo—</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">American insistence on creating a new replacement facility for Futenma Air Station after the base’s closure in Japan is preventing Japan from developing ties with other East Asian countries and creating uncertainty over the stability of the U.S.-Japan Alliance.</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Talmadge, ’10</span>
[Eric Talmadge, Writer for The Associated Press, “US-Japan security alliance strained by base decision, other pressures on its 50th anniversary,” May 22nd 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/world/us-japan-security-alliance-strained-by-base-decision-other-pressures-on-its-50th-anniversary-96862119.html]]</span>] AP
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Uncertainty over a ... Asian relationships. </span></span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thus the plan—The United States Federal Government should close the Marines Corp Air Station Futenma in the prefecture of Japan known as Okinawa and phase out all Marines stationed on except the Jungle Warfare Training Center and the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit to the point of elimination. We’ll clarify.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Contention Two is The Alliance</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Scenario One is East Asia</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Part One: North Korea</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">A strong alliance key to create lasting stability in East Asia—bolsters our deterrent capabilities against all major threats and allows for regional interdependence—solves for Chinese aggression over Taiwan, North Korean Nuclearizaiton, and is key to keeping open sea lines of communications</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Rapp,’04</span>
[<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">William E. Rapp, Former Council on Foreign Relations—Hitachi International Affairs Fellow @ The Institute for International Policy Studies in Tokyo, Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Ph.D. in International Relations from Stanford University, </span></span>“<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pubs/display.cfm?pubID=367|Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance]]</span>,” January 1st 2004, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub367.pdf]]</span>] AP
This monograph began ... <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">stability to the region. </span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Numerous factors make the breakout of conflict more likely than anywhere else—a strong alliance is key to check</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Ikenberry & Mastanduno ’03</span>
[J. John Ikenberry, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics & International Affairs @ Princeton University, Michael Mastanduno, Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences & Nelson A. Rockefeller Professor of Government @ Dartmouth College, “International Relations Theory and The Asia Pacific,” 2003, Pg. 25-27] AP
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Many scholars and ... for regional stability.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Most likely scenario for nuclear escalation</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Nye et al. 2K</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Joseph S. Nye, Professor Emeritus @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>]</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Major war in ... global security strategy. </span></span>


<span style="font-weight: normal;">North Korean nuclearization causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Hayes & Green ’09</span>
[Peter Hayes, Professor of International Relations @ RMIT University, Director of the Nautilus Institute, Michael Hamel-Green, Dean & Professor in the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development @ Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, The Way Still Open: Denuclearizing The Korean Peninsula And Northeast Asia,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, December 14th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Peter-Hayes/3267]]</span>] 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The consequences of ... East Asian region and beyond.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Part Two is China</span>

<span style="color: black;">China Modernizing Now</span>
<span style="color: black;">Birmingham ’11 </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Contributor to the National Times</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.smh.com.au/opinion/blogs/blunt-instrument/why-were-all-up-in-arms-over-china/20110207-1ak3u.html]]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">There is a ...</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> by the Chinese."</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Strong partnership prevents aggressive Chinese expansionism</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Konishi & Avery ’09</span>
[Weston S. Konishi, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Adjunct fellow at the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, Member of the United States Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” Congressional Research Service, July 23rd 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/128832.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Although the U.S.-Japan...China over Taiwan. </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">29</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Aggression causes War over Taiwan</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Copley News Service, ’05 </span></span>
[Copley News Service, “Daily Editorials: Bombs and Butter,” July 24th 2005] 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">As China gains</span></span> ...<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> possess nuclear arsenals.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Nuclear Armageddon</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Straits Times, 2K</span>
[“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 24th 2000] 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">THE high-intensity scenario ... above everything else. </span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Scenario 2 is Japanese Prolif</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Japan will not nuclearize in the squo but stress on the alliance will force rearmament collapsing the NPT</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Chanlett-Avery & Niktin ’09</span>
[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span>] AP
Today, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Japanese officials ... nuclear weapons capability. </span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Only restructuring the alliance can prevent Japanese political instability. This political instability causes Japanese nationalism and nuclearization.</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Kapila ’10</span>
[Subhash Kapila, International Relations and Strategic Affairs analyst, South Asia Analysis Group Consultant, “Japan’s Political Instability & Its Strategic Impact, June 7th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.southasiaanalysis.org/papers39/paper3848.html|http://www.southasiaanalysis.org//papers39/paper3848.html]]</span>] AP 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Japan has a ... United States too.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">And re-arm causes an Asian arms race—Risks of nuclearization outweigh any potential benefits. Nuclearization causes rapid defections from the NPT</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Chanlett-Avery & Niktin, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Congressional Research Service Analyst & Analyst in Nonproliferation,</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> ’09</span>
[Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affair for the Congressional Research Service, Mary Niktin, Analyst in Nonproliferation, Research Associate for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “Japan’s Nuclear Future: Policy Debate, Prospects, and U.S. Interests,” February 19th 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">To many security experts... </span></span>U.N. Security Council. 

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Even a shift by Japan to consider nuclear weapons will trigger regional prolif and gut the NPT</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Bakanic, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Nuclear Weapons Analysis,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> ’08</span></span>
[6/9/08, Elizabeth D., BAS, “The end of Japan's nuclear taboo,” <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-end-of-japans-nuclear-taboo]]</span>]
All that said ... the NPT overall. 

<span style="font-weight: normal;">And even if the NPT doesn’t formally collapse, Japanese Nuclearization will set a precedent for others to nuclearize </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Carranza, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Professor @ Texas A&M, </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">’06 </span>
[MARIO E. CARRANZA, Professor of Political Science @ Texas A & M University, Kingsville, “Can the NPT Survive? The Theory and Practice of US Nuclear Non-proliferation Policy after September 11,” Contemporary Security Policy, Vol.27, No.3, December 2006, Pg. 489–525]
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Even if the NPT </span></span>... nuclear activities in Iran. 

<span style="font-weight: normal;">NPT prevents runaway global proliferation</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Dunn, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Former NPT Ambassador, </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">’09 </span>
[Lewis A. Dunn, Senior vice president of Science Applications International Corp, Former assistant director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Ambassador for the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in the Reagan Administration, “THE NPT: Assessing the Past, Building the Future,” Nonproliferation Review, Vol. 16 No. 2, July 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://cns.miis.edu/npr/pdfs/npr_16-2_dunn.pdf]]</span>]
Metric: <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Does NPT adherence ... after NPT breakout. </span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Prolif creates multiple scenarios for nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Below, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Masters Thesis for School of Advanced Air & Space Studies, </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">’08</span>
[Tim D.Q., Wing Commander, RAF; MA in Defence Studies, King’s College London; “Options for US nuclear disarmament: exemplary leadership or extraordinary lunacy?,” June 2008, Thesis for School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Air University Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama]
Proliferation. Roger Molander, of RAND Corporation, asserts that ... or their opponents.54

<span style="font-weight: normal;">The terminal impact is extinction—Deterrence fails in a proliferated world</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Krieger, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">President Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">’09 </span>
[David, Pres. Nuclear Age Peace Foundation and Councilor—World Future Council, “Still Loving the Bomb After All These Years”, 9-4, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[https://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger]]</span>]
Jonathan <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Tepperman’s article</span></span> ...<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> more rational </span></span>than Mr. Tepperman?

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Contention Three is Solvency</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Closing Futenma is the test case for a truly equal alliance—Officials in the White House are blinded by the situations’ potential</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Van Wolferen, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Professor @ U Amsterdam, </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">’10</span>
[Karel van Wolferen, Professor Emeritus of Comparative Political and Economic Institutions @ The University of Amsterdam, “Japan’s Stumbling Revolution,” The Asia-Pacific Journal, April 12th 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://japanfocus.org/-Karel_van-Wolferen/3341]]</span>] AP
Another crucial subject...<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;"> are radically altered. </span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">That’s uniquely key—an equal alliance is key to create the perception of a stable alliance </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Nye et al., 2K</span>
[Joseph S. Nye, Professor @ The John F. Kennedy School of Government @ Harvard University, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Former Assistant Secretary of Defense, Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State, Michael J. Green, Advisor & Japan Chair @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Associate Professor @ The Walsh School of Foreign Service, Kurt M. Campbell, Fellow @ The Center for Strategic and International Studies, Frank Jannuzi, Minority Staff Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Edward J. Lincoln, Fellow @ The Brookings Institution, “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership,” The Institute for National Strategic Studies, October 11th 2000, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://homepage2.nifty.com/moru/lib/nichibei-anpo/pdf/INSS%20Special%20Report.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Because the stakes ... as a model.</span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Only closing Futenma can reorient the Alliance to deal with pressing security matters </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">O’Hanlon, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Senior Fellow @ Brookings, </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">’10</span>
[Michael E. O’Hanlon, Director of Research & Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy @ The Brookings Institution, “Window on Washington / Putting 1 Okinawa air base in perspective,” February 3rd 2010, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100203dy01.htm]]</span>] AP 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">For 15 years ... center of our alliance. </span></span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">The dispute over Futenma is the key obstacle to a durable alliance—removing the base is key to make the alliance politically sustainable</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Konishi & Avery, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Congressional Research Service Analysts, </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">’09</span>
[Weston S. Konishi, Analyst in Asian Affairs, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Adjunct fellow at the Maureen and Mike Mansfield Foundation, Member of the United States Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, Emma Chanlett-Avery, Specialist in Asian Affairs, “The Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests,” Congressional Research Service, July 23rd 2009, <span style="text-decoration: none;">[[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/128832.pdf]]</span>] AP
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">The reduction of ...</span></span> plans by 2014. 

=Negative= 

Neg Args we have run in the past:

__**Topicality:**__
T reduce
T substantial
T military presence
Inhericality
ASPEC
And a bunch of other random T vios...

__**DAs:**__
Debt Ceiling
Heg
RES

**__CPs:__**
Khorassan PIC
XO CP
Aram Narain PIC
NK NPT QPQ
Presidential Commission CP

__**Ks:**__
Withdrawal
Empire
Hillman
COIN

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]