[[toc]]
=Info= 
Affirmative Cites- Maddie Ebert- [[mailto:mddebert@gmail.com|mddebert@gmail.com]]
Negative Cites- Sam Fuller- [[mailto:samfullertuba@gmail.com|samfullertuba@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 

==Turkish TNWs 1AC- Kearney== 

Plan: The United States federal government should remove its B61s from Turkey. 


Iran


Iran is pursing nuclear weapons now-could have functional weapons within 4 weeks 

UKPA 2/3 (2011, United Kingdom Press Association, Iran 'could have nukes within year', http://www.google.com/hostednews/ukpress/article/ALeqM5gRH-BG2PxAwDYT96hgVgOAg0HQ3g?docId=N0531501296737742611A)


But if Iran was able….were this most advanced third generation, four weeks."


US TNW’s in Turkey prevents them from having credibility to prevent Iranian nuclearization

Kibaroglu 10 (6/7/10, Mustafa, Professor and Vice Chair of the IR dept @ Bilkent U, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu)

In addition to improvements in bilateral….investments in more ambitious nuclear capabilities.


Without Turkish credibility Iran will nuclearize

Daloglu 10 (Tulin, Turkey expert for Foreign Policy, “Turkey Takes Sides”, published 4/16/2010. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/16/turkey_takes_sides?page=0,1) 

In principle, Erdogan shares Obama's ideal of a… that the only person he will have to blame is himself. 


An Iranian nuclear program causes widespread proliferation

Kaye & Wehrey 7- Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation AND International Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation. (June 2007, Survival, “A Nuclear Iran: The Reactions of Neighbours” JSTOR)

Despite the fact that several Gulf states….Shia activism or more unyielding in its diplomacy.


This results in nuclear war

Inbar 6 (Efraim, Professor of Political Studies at Bar-Ilan University and Director of its Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies “The Need to Block a Nuclear Iran” Article was Peer Reviewed by David Leitner and Tamara Sternlieb, The Middle East Review of International Affairs, Vol 10 No 1 Article 7 March 2006) http://meria.idc.ac.il/journal/2006/issue1/jv10no1a7.html, AD: 7-31-09)

Further improvements in Iranian missiles….difficulties surrounding the establishment of stable nuclear deterrence in the region.


Middle East proliferation uniquely risks war for multiple reasons

Russell ‘6 (Richard Russell, research associate in Georgetown University's Institute for the Study of Diplomacy, and an adjunct associate professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown, Military Review, “Military planning for a Middle East stockpiled with nuclear weapons”, November 1 2006, http://www.encyclopedia.com/doc/1G1-155824168.html)

How would the Middle East be affected by numerous states armed….powder kegs like the one that exists in Pakistan today.



Israel will strike Iran by spring if they have nuclear weapons- won’t ask for US permission

The Atlantic 10 (9/2010, The Atlantic Monthly Group, September 2010, The Point of No Return, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/09/the-point-of-no-return/8186/)

But none of these things—least of all the notion….it will be too late to ask for permission.



Israel strike leads to widespread terrorism

The Mirror 10 (8/142010, The Mirror, Israel military strike against Iran 'better than 50%', warn experts, http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/top-stories/2010/08/14/israel-military-strike-against-iran-better-than-50-warn-experts-115875-22486464/)

The chances of a military strike….first nuclear power plant next week.


Terrorist attack causes nuclear war

Ayson 10 , Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons….conclusions might it then draw about their culpability?


Iranian proliferation causes Brazilian proliferation, which increases the chance of nuclear war exponentially

Peters 10, Ralph, Fox News' first Strategic Analyst and Armchair General Magazine and USAToday, May 21, 2010, “Nukes Gone Wild” http://www.nypost.com/p/news/opinion/opedcolumnists/nukes_gone_wild_e1DsERRbLf9qsRnyDadpwK

Once Iran gets the bomb and takes the….that are already destabilizing our strategic architecture -- even without nukes.


Brazilian proliferation leads to unstable regional arms race and proliferation

Poblete 8 (Jason, an Attorney working in the Regulatory Litigation group, work includes export controls, trade, economic sanctions, and related areas such as federal government contracts, over twenty years of public policy and political experiences to his practice, including work with a senior Member of Congress, Congressional Committees, and a national political party, “Brazil and Nuclear Proliferation, Shhhhh!”, http://jasonpoblete.com/2008/06/01/brazil-and-nuclear-proliferation-shhhhh/, 6/1)

Yet even if Brazil does not harbor ill….off an arms race unlike any other in the history of the Western Hemisphere.



Turkish nukes don’t fulfill their purpose, to deter– only a risk of the advantage

Bell and Loehrke 9 (11/23/2009, Truman National Security Fellow, writer about U.S nuclear weapons in Turkey and research assistant at the Ploughshares Fund, graduate student at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey” http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey)

For more than 40 years, Turkey has been….and international security are never that easy.



TNWs make Turkey an Iranian target – leads to Turkish prolif

Scheber ‘9 (Thomas, 4-11, The Principal Associate Director for Nuclear Weapons Program (PADNWP), senior director for strike policy and integration in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy,” Contemporary Challenges for Extended Deterrence”, http://www.au.af.mil/au/aunews/archive/2009/0411/Articles/ContemporaryChallengesforExtendedDeterrenceMay09.pdf.)

Turkey shares a border with Iran and together….nuclear deterrent force instead of relying on its NATO allies.


Turkey actively supports withdrawing TNWs- conventional deterrence remains

Kimball ‘9 (Daryl G. Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control Association, September 2009. Arms Control Today, “Change U.S. Nuclear Policy? Yes, We Can”, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_09/focus)


Given the United States’ conventional….process “with a view to their reduction and elimination.”



There is no chance of Turkish proliferation unless Iran gets the bomb

Walsh and Holmgreen, 7 (Brian and Casper, “Potential Nuclear Proliferation in Turkey”, 2007)

While Turkey has some reasons to acquire….nuclear nations, as well as with the NATO weapons currently stationed in Turkey. 


NATO

Post summit NATO is still a nuclear alliance
Kristensen ‘11-19 (Hans M. Kristensen, “NATO Strategic Concept: One Step Forward and a Half Step Back”, http://www.fas.org/blog/ssp/2010/11/nato2010.php)


The new Strategic Concept does not explicitly….to 150-200 B61 bombs deployed at six bases in five countries (see table).


Lack of TNW consultation cripples perception of NATO alliance commitment

Potter et. al. 9 (Miles Pomper, MA, editor of Arms Control Today @ ACA, Nikolai Sokov, Ph.D., is senior research associate at James Martin Center for Non-proliferation Studies at Monterey Institute of International Studies, William Potter, Ph.D., is Institute Professor and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies (MIIS) “Reducing and Regulating Tactical (Nonstrategic) Nuclear Weapons in Europe,” http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/pdfs/tnw_europe.pdf) 

Meanwhile, members of the Obama team have staked….hope will include non-strategic nuclear weapons.


NATO is useless- European countries don’t contribute militarily

Carpenter 9 (Ted Galen Carpenter, Ph.D., is the vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, “NATO at 60: A Hollow Alliance,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/ pa635.pdf)

Although NATO has added numerous new members during….terminate this increasingly dysfunctional alliance.


NATO obligations make Russia war inevitable 
Carpenter 09
(Ted Galen Carpenter, Ph.D., is the vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, “NATO at 60: A Hollow Alliance,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/ pa635.pdf)

Taking on the obligation to defend….the United States spends in Iraq in two weeks.


Russia conflict leads to nuclear WWIII 

Yesin 2007(Colonel General Vladimir Senior Vice President of the Russian Academy of the Problems of Security, Defense, and Law. “Will America Fight Russia?;”. Defense and Security, No 78. LN July 2007)

Yesin: Should the Russian-American….of what weapons will be used in the first phase.



Ending NATO means territorial limits on US power expansion. Power expansion creates cycles of war with threatened nations

May 2K(Michael M. May, Senior Fellow @ the Institute for International Studies and Professor of Research Management Science & Engineering @ Stanford, “The US Enlargement Strategy and Nuclear Weapons” – Working Paper, http://iis-db.stanford.edu/pubs/11892/enlargementstrategy.pdf)


Nuclear weapons have been thought useful because….Germany or Japan took action, the circle of threatened states would expand.



Removing US presence in NATO key to reinstituting European focus
Bacevich 10 (Andrew J. Bacevich, Ph.D., is a professor of international relations at Boston University, former director of its Center for International Relations, 2/22/2010 “Let Europe Be Europe: Why the United States Must Withdraw from NATO” http://www.foreignpolicy.com/ articles/2010/02/22/let_ europe_be_europe?page=0,1)

If NATO has a future, it will find….whole and free -- and more than able to manage its own affairs.


Lack of European focus leads to Balkan instability and NATO collapse inevitable 
Kober 8 (Stanley Kober, Ph.D., is a research fellow in foreign policy at the Cato Institute “Cracks in the Foundation: NATO’s New Troubles,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/ pa-608.pdf) 

Would NATO members line up behind….the alliance itself—could be bleak.

Nuclear War 
Glaser ‘93 (Charles L. Glaser, Ph.D., is professor in the Elliott School of International Affairs and the Department of Political Science “Why NATO is Still Best,” International Security Volume 18 No. 1)

However, although the lack of an imminent….should not be unconcerned about Europe’s future.


Engage the Political 

Failure to engage the political process turns us into spectators who are powerless to produce real change. 

Rorty 98 professor emeritus of comparative literature and philosophy, by courtesy, at Stanford University (Richard, “ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America”, 1998, Pg. 7-9) 

Such people find pride in American citizenship….fatalistically before the croaker's picture. "2 



Political engagement is necessary to check extinction.


Small ‘6 (Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” The Journal for Civic Commitment, Spring, 2006 http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.pdf) 

What will be the challenges of the new….beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that.







==Turkish TNWs 1AC- Valley== 


Plan: The United States Federal Government should remove its B 61s from Turkey.


Contention One is Iran:

Iran is pursing nuclear weapons now-will have functional weapons within the next year
The Telegraph 8/21 2010, “Iran '12 months from nuclear weapon' US warns as Bushehr reactor started” http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/middleeast/iran/7957632/Iran-12-months-from-nuclear-weapon-US-warns-as-Bushehr-reactor-started.html

"Despite all the pressures, sanctions and hardships...weapon that worked would take at least 12 months.


US TNW’s in Turkey prevents them from having credibility to prevent Iranian nuclearization
Kibaroglu 6/7/10 (Mustafa, Professor and Vice Chair of the IR dept @ Bilkent U, “Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu)

In addition to improvements in bilateral relations...continuing investments in more ambitious nuclear capabilities.


Without Turkish credibility Iran will nuclearize
Daloglu 4/16, Tulin, Turkey expert for Foreign Policy, “Turkey Takes Sides”, published 4/16/2010. http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/04/16/turkey_takes_sides?page=0,1

In principle, Erdogan shares Obama's ideal...person he will have to blame is himself.


An Iranian nuclear program causes widespread proliferation
Kaye & Wehrey 7- Political Scientist at the RAND Corporation AND International Policy Analyst at the RAND Corporation. (June 2007, Survival, “A Nuclear Iran: The Reactions of Neighbours” JSTOR)

Despite the fact that several Gulf states are...Shia activism or more unyielding in its diplomacy.


This results in nuclear war
Inbar 6 (Efraim, Professor of Political Studies at Bar-Ilan University and Director of its Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies “The Need to Block a Nuclear Iran” Article was Peer Reviewed by David Leitner and Tamara Sternlieb, The Middle East Review of International Affairs, Vol 10 No 1 Article 7 March 2006) http://meria.idc.ac.il/journal/2006/issue1/jv10no1a7.html, AD: 7-31-09)

Further improvements in Iranian missiles...difficulties surrounding the establishment of stable nuclear deterrence in the region.


Israel will strike Iranian nuclear program in the next year- leads to widespread terrorism
The Mirror 8/14 (2010, The Mirror, Israel military strike against Iran 'better than 50%', warn experts, http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/top-stories/2010/08/14/israel-military-strike-against-iran-better-than-50-warn-experts-115875-22486464/)

The chances of a military strike against...first nuclear power plant next week.

Terrorist attack causes nuclear war
Ayson 10 , Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)

A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the...might it then draw about their culpability?


Turkish nukes don’t deter– only a risk of the advantage
Bell and Loehrke 9 (11/23/2009, Truman National Security Fellow, writer about U.S nuclear weapons in Turkey and research assistant at the Ploughshares Fund, graduate student at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey” http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey)

For more than 40 years, Turkey has...and international security are never that easy.


No Dis-ads- TNW’s will be gone by 2020
Grossman ’10 (Elaine M. Grossman, 8/17/10, “Nations Look Increasingly to U.S. Conventional Forces for Deterrence”, http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100817_7349.php)

There is a "growing number of Europeans beginning...be no American nuclear weapons in Europe."


TNWs make Turkey an Iranian target – leads to Turkish prolif
Scheber ‘9 (Thomas, 4-11, The Principal Associate Director for Nuclear Weapons Program (PADNWP), senior director for strike policy and integration in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy,” Contemporary Challenges for Extended Deterrence”, http://www.au.af.mil/au/aunews/archive/2009/0411/Articles/ContemporaryChallengesforExtendedDeterrenceMay09.pdf.)

Turkey shares a border with Iran and...relying on its NATO allies.


Turkey actively supports withdrawing TNWs- conventional deterrence remains
Kimball ‘9 (Daryl G. Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control Association, September 2009. Arms Control Today, “Change U.S. Nuclear Policy? Yes, We Can”, http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2009_09/focus)

Given the United States’ conventional military...a view to their reduction and elimination.”


There is no chance of Turkish proliferation – there are too many critical disincentives
Walsh and Holmgreen, 7 (Brian and Casper, “Potential Nuclear Proliferation in Turkey”, 2007)

While Turkey has some reasons to acquire nuclear...NATO weapons currently stationed in Turkey.


Contention Two is Russia:

US- Russia relations low now- past deceit by the US on nuclear issues
Cohen 10 (5/25, Professor Stephen Cohen, longtime Nation contributing editor and Professor of Russian Studies and History at NYU, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen)

Then the Soviet Union disappeared, and...felt, as Putin and Medvedev have said, "deceived and betrayed."


Removing tactical nuclear weapons from Europe is uniquely key to convincing Russia to reduce its stockpile of nuclear weapons
Kolesnikov et al. 08 (Sergei, Rolf Mützenich, Patrik Vankrunklesven, “Time to remove tactical nuclear weapons from Europe?” < http://www.gsinstitute.org/pnnd/pubs/Tactical_nukes.pdf> Dr. Rolf Mützenich has a phD from the University of Bremen in political science, member of SPD, Spokesperson on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament. Patrik Vankrunklesven is a Belgian Senator, and PNND Council Member, Sergei Kolesnikov is a PNND Council Member)

However, it will be difficult to move...contact with parliamentary colleagues in these countries.


TNWs in Turkey are key- most massive stockpile
Weitz 10 (4/12/2010, Richard Weitz, Ph.D., is Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis, the Hudson Institute, “THE FUTURE OF NATO'S NUCLEAR WEAPONS ON TURKISH SOIL”, http://www.silkroadstudies.org/new/inside/turkey/2010/100412A.html)

Today, Turkey remains one of five...hosts approximately 90 at İncirlik Air Base.


Continued Russian prolif spills over to nearly every other nation worldwide and undermines non proliferation efforts
Dvorkin 09, Vladmir, one of the authors of all major documents related to the Strategic Nuclear Forces and the Strategic Missile Forces. For many years he has been participating as an expert in preparing SALT II, the INF Treaty, START I and START II, 2009, “Antimissile Defences, Arms Control and Nuclear Proliferation” http://www.icnnd.org/research/Dvorkin_BMD.pdf

If Russia acquires mobile intermediate-range...Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conferences ending in failure.


This leads to global thermonuclear war
Talbott 07 (Strobe, President, the Brookings Institution, “Building a Constructive U.S.-Russian Relationship” – http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2007/1030_russia_talbott.aspx

Finally, Mr. Chairman, I wish to touch...and accountability will also disappear


Removing TNW’s is key to US-Russian relations
Lamond 09, Claudine Australian National University (International Relations), June 2009, “International Security Report” http://www.atlantic-community.org/app/webroot/files/articlepdf/140809_ISR%20-%20Russian%20TNW%20C%20Lamond.pdf

The stationing of NATO’s TNWs in...could begin as early as December 2009.16


Unilateral action on nukes is the only way to solve Russia relations
Mosher ‘3 (David Mosher is a RAND senior policy analyst with expertise in nuclear weapons policy and ballistic missile defense. Lowell Schwartz is a RAND associate policy analyst, RAND, “Why Russian and U.S. Nuclear Postures Perpetuate Cold War Risks”, http://www.rand.org/publications/randreview/issues/fall2003/force.html)

Thus, even as U.S.-Russian relations...problem. Such an effort must begin with presidential leadership and commitment.

US—Russia relations not only solve prolif, but reverse it
Dvorkin 09 Vladmir, one of the authors of all major documents related to the Strategic Nuclear Forces and the Strategic Missile Forces. For many years he has been participating as an expert in preparing SALT II, the INF Treaty, START I and START II, 2009, “Antimissile Defences, Arms Control and Nuclear Proliferation” http://www.icnnd.org/research/Dvorkin_BMD.pdf

At the same time, the potential for cooperation...nuclear proliferation; it would reverse it as well.

Prevents U.S- Russia war through miscalculation
Cohen 1 (Stephen, Prof of Russian Studies at NYU, June 7, http://www.thenation.com/doc.mhtml?i=20010625&c=1&s=cohen)

In these and other ways, Russia has...Hillel, "If not now, when? If not us, who?"


U.S- Russia arsenals lead to extinction
Bostrom 02,(Nick. Professor of Philosophy and Global Studies at Yale, "Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards," www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)

A much greater existential risk emerged...would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.


Contention Three is Engage the Political

Failure to engage the political process turns us into spectators who are powerless to produce real change.
Rorty 98, professor emeritus of comparative literature and philosophy, by courtesy, at Stanford University (Richard, “ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America”, 1998, Pg. 7-9)

Such people find pride in American citizenship...sit down fatalistically before the croaker's picture. "2


Political engagement is necessary to check extinction.
Small ‘6 (Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” The Journal for Civic Commitment, Spring, 2006 http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.pdf)

What will be the challenges...the beginning stages of a project that seeks to do just that.




=Negative= 
==Mediation Kritik 1NC- Valley==

The affirmative analyzes institutional practices in an ethical context. However, their dependence on legal systems destroys the ethical potential of the aff. The rigid laws of the state prevent individuals from seeking situational solutions to connect with the unknowable other, turning case.
Hershock 99
Hershock, East-West Center, 1999. [Changing the way society changes”, Journal of Buddhist Ethics, 6, 154, http://www.buddhistethics.org/6/hershock991.html]

The trouble is that, like other technologies biased...legal institutions at once forces and enforces societal reform.


The displacement of our ethics onto external political institutions culminates in genocidal violence. Once we accept that our ethics are contingent on the political all atrocities becomes possible.
Zupancic 00
Zupancic, Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan, March 2000, p. 96-7

“Another problem still remains, however: the question of the possibility...that is `essentially a by-product' of our actions.


If the mediation of our ethics is the source of our ethical impoverishment and the corruption of our relationships, it’s time to withdraw from this framework of mediation. We ask you to affirm the ethical commitment of the 1AC in its immediacy. Suspending the wall that mediates our relationships constitutes the only genuine ethical act.
Santilli 3
Paul Santilli, Siena College May 18th-22 2003 www.isud.org/papers/pdfs/Santilli.pdf

If we retain this original sense of “radical evil” as...character of the evildoer and not in the abyss of suffering.


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]