**Contention One – The Language of War**
**The destructive capacity of the American military machine, escalates a destructive war, one in which this force is unequally matched to one sided battle against a decrepit Afghanistan. As the war engulfs the nation, Americans have begun to take war to a new level, the innocent.** 
**Jaffry ’10** (Abdul-Majid, Retired Aircraft Engineer and Freelance Writer, “Afghanistan War -- A Saga of Lopsided Death and Destruction”, 5-26, [[http://www.uruknet.info/?p=66378]])

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">Morality is consumed by the presence of “national security”. The lives of “others” become acceptable losses for the lives of “our “ people. This discourse creates a violent community that disengages from the frame of otherly thought and doubt-distinction to solve death with death. Humanity is itself, dehumanized, and engulfed in the pursuit for safety from an “enemy” , that we create upon ourselves. Correction of this rhetoric can only be done by the publiv disengaging from this language, and into outside language.  </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial;">Jackson</span></span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial;"> ‘5</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Richard, Lecturer in Politics – U. Manchester, 49th Parallel, “Language Power and Politics: Critical Discourse Analysis and the War on Terrorism”, January, [[http://www.49thparallel.bham.ac.uk/back/issue15/jackson1.htm]])</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">The relation of construction and dissemination through discourse creates a fine line with which fail to deconstruct its political myths could prove fatal, using such failed terms to deliberate control, as the NAZI’s did, creating a manipulative hegemonic understanding on the public sphere that naturalizes mass violence.</span></span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">Crowe ‘7</span></span>** (Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, [[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]])</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Black';"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">Our society is permeated with violence; individuals create the distinction of “I” and “other”, and a creation of good and bad based on their associations, as outsiders are considered potential threats who are less than human, fueling the fire for genocides to come. </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial;">Kovel ’84</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Joel, Prof. Pol. Comm. And Psych. – Einstein U., “Against the Nuclear Terror State”, p 175-176)</span></span>

==<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">And, the epistemic privileging of violent narratives closes off the public sphere. Demands for social justice and democracy become un-sayable. </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial;">Popen ‘2</span></span>**  <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Shari, Adjunct Prof. Language, Reading and Culture – U. Arizona, Anthropology & Education Quarterly, “Democratic Pedagogy and the Discourse of Containment”, 33(3), Wiley Interscience)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span>
==<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> A vibrant public sphere is necessary to solve multiple existential threats. </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">Boggs ’97</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Carl, Prof. Social Sciences – National U. (Los Angeles), Theory and Society, “The Great Retreat: Decline of the Public Sphere in Late Twentieth-Century America”, 26(6), December, SpringerLink)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">We call for the United States Federal Government to substantially reduce its military presence in Afghanistan.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
==<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Content Two: Solvency  </span></span>== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Arial;"> Dominant discourse surrounding us policy in Afghanistan is based on disconnected narratives and factoids that come to construct not only the identity of Afghanistan. But also that of the us thought so-called objective reasoning, military presence is demanded and sustained all in the name of peace. This creates a vicious cycle of failed policymaking, resulting in an ever expanding imperialism that goes far beyond the Afghan borders, and our </span></span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">**plan solves. Incorporating our criticism of the language surrounding the** Afghanistan **war into public policy reverses hyper-militaristic and violent narratives.** </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial;">Crowe ‘7</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Lori, Grad Student in Pol. Sci. – York U., “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’”, [[http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf]])</span></span>



==<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Full political engagement that challenges the imperialist violence of Afghanistan is necessary. Praxis combined with language changes is important for enriching public deliberation and breaking down the hegemony of imperialist violence in the public sphere. </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial;">Cloud ‘4</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Dana L., Associate Prof. And Dir. Graduate Studies – Dept. Comm – UT Austin, Quarterly Journal of Speech, “”To Veil the Threat of Terror”: Afghan Women and the Clash of Civilizations”, 90(3), August, Ebsco)</span></span>


==<span style="margin: 3pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Use the ballot to endorse pragmatic peace-building activities. We should affirm challenges to the rhetorical and foreign policy practices that allow for sustained militarism and otherization. </span></span>== 
<span style="font-family: Arial;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial;">Ivie ‘7</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Robert, Prof. Comm. And Culture. – U. Indiana Bloomington, Rhetoric & Public Affairs, “Fighting Terror by Rite of Redemption and Reconciliation”, 10(2), Project Muse)</span></span>