[[toc]]
Aff - [[mailto:saadkhalid009@gmail.com|saadkhalid009@gmail.com]]
Neg - [[mailto:farazdebate@gmail.com|farazdebate@gmail.com]]
Greenhill stuff was merged from older wiki's due to a parter switch. Any confusion about arguments run there should be emailed.

=Affirmative= 
==Counter-Narcotics (Greenhill)== 
**Plan: The White House Office of National Drug Control Policy should completely withdraw the United States federal government's military presence engaged in counter-narcotics operations in Afghanistan**

<span style="color: black; display: block;">**Contention 1: Inherency**</span>
**US military involvement in Afghani counternarcotics efforts forces an overemphasis on the eradication of poppy cultivation – causes a tradeoff with implementation of other pillars of the US counternarcotics strategy that are able to completely eliminate the drug trade.**
**Glaze, 2k7** (John A. Glaze, l
<span style="display: block; font-size: 70%;">ieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan. He previously held positions as Commander of the 67th Special Operations Service (SOS) of the Royal Air Force in Mindenhall, Great Britain; Operations Officer of the 9th SOS at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida; Chairman of the Special Airlift Branch of the Joint Countermine Operation Simulation at Ft. Bragg, North Carolina; Air Force Institute of Technology at Ft. Dix, New Jersey; Standards/Evaluations Flight CC/Chairman of Safety of 550th SOS/58 Special Operations Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico; and C– 130 E Adverse Weather Aerial Delivery System Navigator of the 40th Airlift Squadron at Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina. Lieutenant Colonel Glaze holds a B.S. in business administration from the University of Arizona, Tucson; an M.A. in management from Webster University, Albuquerque, New Mexico; an M.A. in military arts and sciences from Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama; an M.A. in strategic studies from the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, PA; and a master’s degree in logistics from the Air Force Institute of Technology, Ft. Dix, New Jersey,</span>
“Opium and Afghanistan: Reassessing U.S. Counternarcotics Strategy” Strategic Studies Institute, 10/2007, Online [FH])
The security situation in much … in an ineffective counternarcotics program.

<span style="color: black; display: block;">**Afghanistan fuels international drug trade which continuously grows**</span>
**Schweich, 2k7** (Ambassador Thomas A. Schweich, Coordinator for Counternarcotics and Justice Reform in Afghanistan, U.S. Department of State Official, “U.S. Counternarcotics Strategy for Afghanistan” August 2007, Online [FH])
The drug problem in Afghanistan … needles, but also by smoking

**Contention 2: Organized Crime**

**Drug Trade key to organized crime funding.**
**President’s Commission on Organized Crime,** 86 (President's Commission on Organized Crime, “America's Habit Drug Abuse, Drug Trafficking, & Organized Crime” Chapter III Part 1, 1986, Online [FH]) 
Drug trafficking is the ... to all organized crime groups today. 

**3 Impacts**
**First – Organized crime makes your impacts inevitable.**
**UNODC, 2k9** (February, Preventing organized crime from spoiling peace, Commission on Narcotic Drugs, [[http://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/frontpage/preventing]]– organized– crime– from– spoiling– peace.html)
26 February 2009 – Look at almost …have few people to send?"

**Second – Organized Crime causes Balkan instability – the drug trade is the root cause**
**Chossudovsky, 99** (Michel., Professor or Economics at the University of Ottawa. “The KLA: Gangsters, Terrorists and the CIA.” Online. [KC])
Heralded by the global media … as a result of the bombings.

**Causes global war.**
**Paris, 2k2** (Roland, Assistant Professor of Political Science and International Affairs at University of Colorado, Political Science Quarterly, “Kosovo and the metaphor war”, Volume 117, Issue 3, Fall, Proquest)
At this early stage in … , before it is too late.

**Third – Organized crime causes wildlife smuggling – collapses endangered species**
**Delaney, 2k9** (Joan Delaney, staff writer for the New Criminologists, “Wildlife Smuggling Nets Big Bucks For Organized Crime” 3/20/09, Online [FH])
Humming birds bound and stuffed … species are actually more valuable.”

**Endangered species collapse causes extinction**
**Kunich, 2k**1 (John Charles, Associate Professor of Law, Roger Williams University School of Law, ARTICLE: Preserving the Womb of the Unknown Species With Hotspots Legislation, 52 Hastings L.J. 1149, Lexis)
It is rather well known, … "womb of the unknown species."

**Each Species is key.**
**Schrudder, 2k** (G.G.E. Scudder, Professor, Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia, 2000, Conserving Nature’s Biodiversity: insights from biology, ethics and economics, eds. Van Kooten, Bulte and Sinclair, p. 24)
At one extreme is the … concerning this metaphor, see Budiansky (1995).

**Biodiversity is Pre– Requisite to Resiliency.**
**Wilson, 2k2**. (Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor– Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)
Ecosystems are kept stable in … of forest vegetation still more.

**Extinction Rate Outweighs Any of their Resiliency Arguments**
**Rosenweig 2k1.** (Michael L. Rosenzweig, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, 2001, PNAS, Volume 98, No. 10, May 8, p. 5404 [EBSCO])
Accidents that eradicate successful species … keep up with the losses.

**Adaptation Fails – It is Only Short Term**
**Bertolllini, 2k2.** (Colin L. Soskolne & Roberto Bertollini, Professor Department of Health Sciences, University of Alberta & WHO, 2002, Conservation Medicine, eds. Aguirre, Ostefeld, Tabor, House & Pearl, p. 374)
Some are criticized for their … causes of ongoing ecological destruction

**No Defense – Organized crime rising – no preparedness - evidence assumes Obama.**
**Kouri, 2k9** (Jim Kouri, currently fifth vice– president of the National Association of Chiefs of Police and he's a staff writer for the New Media Alliance, “Obama and the mob: Combating organized crime takes backseat in White House” The Examiner, 12/21/09, Online [FH])
There is a feeling that permeates … will provide alternate importation routes.

**Contention 3: Afghani Stability**

**Military eradication fuels resistance – undermines stability.**
**Fishstein, 2k7** (Paul Fishstein, director of the Afghanistan Research and Evaluation Unit, a policy research institute based in Kabul, “Poppy paradox in Afghanistan” Boston Globe, 9/16/07, Online [FH])
AFGHANISTAN'S opium output has risen … now they want our crops."

**Eradication causes extreme economic and political instability.**
**Scott, 2k10** (Prof. Peter Dale Scott, former Canadian diplomat and Prof @ University of California, critical writer on Afghan occupation, “Obama and Afghanistan: America’s Drug– Corrupted War” Global Researcher, 1/1/10, Online [FH])
The global drug traffic itself … a contested opium caravan in Laos.[68]

**Eradication makes instability inevitable**
**Brown, 2k5** (Vanda Felbab– Brown, Ph.D. candidate in political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, “Afghanistan: When Counternarcotics Undermines Counterterrorism” The Washington Quarterly, 28:4 pp. 55–72, Autumn 2005, Online [FH])
Yet, paradoxically, counternarcotics efforts frequently … —also entails serious negative repercussions.

**Afghan instability causes global nuclear war**
**Morgan, 2k6** (Stephen, former member of the British Labour Party Exectutive Committee. He is a political psychologist, researcher into Chaos/Complexity Theory, "Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?" [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]])
However events may prove him … and Russia pitted against the US.

**Afghan opiates cause a systemic impact of a hundred thousand deaths annually.**
**CNN, 2k9** (CNN, leading international news source, “World failing to dent heroin trade, U.N. warns” 10/21/09, Online [FH])
Afghan opium kills 100,000 people every … on Drugs and Crime, said

**Contention 4: ISAF Credibility.**

**US military involvement in drug trade undermines ISAF credibility – troop reduction key**
**Novosti, 2k10** (RIA Novosti, leading international news source, “Iranian minister blasts ISAF for reluctance to eradicate Afghan poppy” 04/05/10, Online [FH])
The Iranian Interior Minister criticized … its fight against drug traffickers.

**Eradication undermines ISAF credibility in Afghanistan**
**Tse, 2k9** (Hillson Tse, Bachelor of Arts Candidate, Political Science and Economics University of British Columbia, “A Focused and Targeted Expansion of NATO and ISAF Involvement in Afghanistan Counternarcotics Operations” Atlantic Council, 8/21/09, Online [FH])
Eradication has been at the … have not yet been met.

**Now is key timeframe – withdrawal is inevitable – delays cause perception of US commitment to ISAF – makes credibility collapse inevitable – kills NATO credibility.**
**Kulesa, 2k8** (Lukasz Kulesa, analyst of international security and Acting Head of the Research Office at the Polish Institute of International Affairs, “ISAF Operation in Afghanistan and the Future of NATO – Time for Change” Polish Institute of International Affairs, 3/2008, Online [FH])
The second challenge involves … management will be greatly diminished .

**ISAF credibility in Afghani counternarcotics determines overall NATO credibility**
**Tse, 2k9** (Hillson Tse, Bachelor of Arts Candidate, Political Science and Economics University of British Columbia, “A Focused and Targeted Expansion of NATO and ISAF Involvement in Afghanistan Counternarcotics Operations” Atlantic Council, 8/21/09, Online [FH])
Ultimately, the ability of NATO … international role would be warranted.

**Now is key timeframe - NATO will push for European NMD in November – credibility is key – checks Iranian nuclear threat**
**Reuters, 2k10** (Reuters, “NATO Says Missile Defense Cost Small Price to Pay” MDAA, 5/5/10, Online [FH])
NATO Secretary–General Anders Fogh … atomic program, something Tehran denies.

**NATO key – European defense fails.**
**Lekic, 2k10** (Slobodan Lekic, staff writer for AP, “NATO: Europe will be “paper tiger” unless it improves defense capabilities” 3/27/10, Online [FH])
Europe will be a “paper tiger” … share the burden,” she said.

**Iran attacks against NATO creates multiple avenues for escalatory nuclear war**
**Schutle, 2k10** (Gregory Schulte, U.S. ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency, NATO Headquarters on crisis management and nuclear planning, visiting fellow at the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction, “Iran's Nuclear Threat to NATO” Atlantic Council, 2/08/10, Online [FH])
As NATO prepares a new Strategic …into the hands of terrorists.

**We win timeframe – Iran will have capabilities to target West Europe by 2014**
**Agence France–Press, 2k10** (Agence France–Presse, international news source, “Iranian missiles could target W. Europe by 2014: IISS” 5/11/10, Online [FH])
Iran could target western Europe … Middle East, the report said.

**Contention 5: Terrorism**

**Military counternarcotics trades off with counterterrorism.**
**Carpenter, 2k4** (Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, is the author or editor of 16 books on international affairs, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror” CATO Institute, 11/10/04, Online [FH])
There is a growing tension between … priority than anti– drug measures.

**Destruction of farmers profit makes them turn to the Taliban**
**Dilanian, 2k9** (Ken Dilanian, Staff writer for USA Today, “Afghanistan's poppies pose dilemma” USA Today, 3/31/09, Online [FH])
WASHINGTON — President Obama's new strategy … fuels the Taliban– led insurgency.

**No risk of a turn – drug trade main Al-Qaeda funding source.**
**Drug War Chronicle, 2k9** (Drug War Chronicle, world’s leading drug policy journal, “ Southwest Asia: Afghan Opium Trade Wreaking Global Havoc, UNODC Warns” Issue 605, 10/23/09, Online [FH])
In Pakistan and Afghanistan, the … "undetermined amounts going to insurgents."

**Scenario 1: Nuclear Terror**
**Afghan insurgency spills over into Pakistan – allows for nuclear weapon acquisition.**
**National Terror Alert, 2k9** (National Terror Alert, America’s leading source for Homeland security news and information, “Pakistan – Taliban Nuclear Nightmare” 4/23/09, Online [FH])
The stakes for the United … advance—Jerusalem could be hit.

**This spills over causing global nuclear war and extinction even if the attack fails.**
**Sid– Ahmed, 2k4** (Mohammed Sid– Ahmed, “Extinction,” Al– Ahram Weekly, 2004, Online)
What would be the consequences … , we will all be losers.

**Scenario 2: Bioterror**
**Al–Qaeda in Afghanistan has extinction level bioterror capabilities.**
**Roul, 2k9** (Animesh Roul, Executive Director of Research at the Society for the Study of Peace and Conflict, New Delhi. He served as a Research Fellow (Coordinator) at SSPC since September 2004. He is involved with independent think tanks, media houses, and policy organizations in India and abroad and contributes regularly to web portals, newspapers, and scholarly journals. In his earlier stint, he worked as a Research Associate at New Delhi based Institute for Conflict Management, “Is Bioterrorism Threat Credible?” CBW Magazine, 4/2009, Online [FH])
There are recent reports that … a germ unleash of apocalyptic nature.

**Bioterror by 2013 if unchecked**
**ABC, 2k8** (ABC News, December 2, 2008, “The Law,” ABC News, Online.)
A biological or nuclear attack … world by the end of 2013."

**Contention 6: Solvency**

**US military makes the drug problem worse – reduction key to use other strategies – plan would trigger transition away from drug production without fueling resistance and collapse the drug trade.**
**McCoy, 2k10** (Alfred W. McCoy, J.R.W. Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin– Madison. He is the author of The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade, staff writer for CBS News, “Can Anyone Pacify An Opium State?” CBS News, 3/31/10, Online [FH])
With its forces now planted … ruined in decades of war.

**Although the military has made attempts to stop eradication – ANY strategy utilizing military presence will fuel the drug trade and undermine successful strategies.**
**Carpenter, 2k4** (Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, is the author or editor of 16 books on international affairs, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror” CATO Institute, 11/10/04, Online [FH])
That is especially true of … new areas to drug cultivation.

**The ONDCP can set guidelines over the military – is internationally modeled – and has authorizations over eradication policies**
**ONDCP, 2k8** (Office of National Drug Control Policy, “Source Countries and Drug Transit Zones: Afghanistan” 2008, Online [FH])
While Afghan opium cultivation is … international civilian and military organizations.

**ONDCP budget includes authorizations on funding allocation for military counternarcotics efforts**
**Davis et al, 2k7** (Patrick Murphy, Lynn E. Davis, Timothy Liston, David E. Thaler, Katharine Watkins Webb, RAND's Science and Technology Division and RAND's Drug Policy Research Center, “Improving Anti–Drug Budgeting” RAND Corp, 12/07/07, Online [FH])
The ONDCP budget summary breaks … for unforeseen costs and expenses.

**A natural fungus will wipe out 70 percent of opium poppies this year – makes poppy reduction inevitable – we only have to win 30 percent solvency to collapse cultivation.**
**Ahmad, 2k10** (Sardar Ahmad, staff writer for AFP, “Disease 'to cut Afghan opium by up to 70%'” Yahoo News, 5/16/10, Online [FH])
A mystery disease infecting opium … only crop to be infected.

**That means now is key timeframe – fungus will weaken cultivation creating ideal factors for changing strategies.**
**BBC, 2k10** (BBC, “Fungus hits Afghan opium poppies” 5/13/10, Online [FH])
Mr Costa told the BBC … to all 34 five years ago.


==Drug Trade Aff (Broken at UT)== 

Text: t<span class="ToReadChar1">he White House Office of National Drug Control Policy should substantially reduce the United States federal government’s military presence engaged in counternarcotics activities in Afghanistan.</span>

Contention 1: Heroin Trade 
Military counternarcotics efforts in Afghanistan overemphasize aggressive policies to stop poppy cultivation– trades off with other pillars of the US counternarcotics strategy that can eliminate the drug trade. 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Glaze, 2k7.</span> <span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(John A. Glaze</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan. He previously held positions as Commander of the 67th Special Operations Service (SOS) of the Royal Air Force in Mindenhall, Great Britain; Operations Officer of the 9th SOS at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida; Chairman of the Special Airlift Branch of the Joint Countermine Operation Simulation at Ft. Bragg, North Carolina; Air Force Institute of Technology at Ft. Dix, New Jersey; Standards/Evaluations Flight CC/Chairman of Safety of 550th SOS/58 Special Operations Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico; and C– 130 E Adverse Weather Aerial Delivery System Navigator of the 40th Airlift Squadron at Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina. Lieutenant Colonel Glaze holds a B.S. in business administration from the University of Arizona, Tucson; an M.A. in management from Webster University, Albuquerque, New Mexico; an M.A. in military arts and sciences from Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama; an M.A. in strategic studies from the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, PA; and a master’s degree in logistics from the Air Force Institute of Technology, Ft. Dix, New Jersey,</span> <span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">“Opium and Afghanistan: Reassessing U.S. Counternarcotics Strategy” Strategic Studies Institute, 10/2007, Online [FH])</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">security</span> situation <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">, , , ineffective counternarcotics program. </span></span></span>



**Aggressive counternarcotics efforts only increase overall trafficking revenue – makes heroin market stability inevitable**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Caulkins et al, 2k10</span>** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan Caulkins, Professor in Operations Research and Public Policy @ Carnehie Mellon, Former director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, Mark Kleiman. Professor of Public Policy and Director of Drug Policy Analysis Program @ UCLA. Jonathan Kulick, Advisor for State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration, Former Director of Studies @ Georgian Foundation for Strategic & International Studies, “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June 2010, Online [FH])</span></span>
**__In addition to … their revenues and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">profits. </span>__**


**Now is key timeframe for collapsing the trade – A natural fungus wiped half the opium poppies this year – we only have to win 50 percent solvency to collapse cultivation but we must do it this year.**
<span class="TagAuthorDateChar"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">King, 8/1.</span></span> (Laura King, Top Foreign Correspondent to the LA Times, Named GW Global Media Institute Welling Presidential Fellow. “Afghan insurgents profit despite opium blight; A fungus cut output by nearly half, but the scarcity led to high prices, the U.N. says.” October 1, 2010. Los Angeles Times. Found online @ Lexis. [sk]) 
<span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 11pt;">Opium production in </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">…</span></span> Western troops and the Taliban. 


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The fungus provides the best opportunity to change counter narcotics strategies. </span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">BBC, 2k10</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(BBC, “Fungus hits Afghan opium poppies” 5/13/10, Online [FH]) </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">Mr Costa told the BBC … 34 five years ago. </span>


Independently – Afghan opiates cause a systemic impact of a hundred thousand deaths annually. 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">CNN, 2k9</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(CNN, leading international news source, “World failing to dent heroin trade, U.N. warns” 10/21/09, Online [FH])</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Afghan opium kills </span><span style="color: black;">…</span></span><span style="color: black;"> Drugs and Crime, said </span>


Afghanistan fuels the international heroin trade which continuously grows 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Schweich, 2k7</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Ambassador Thomas A. Schweich, Coordinator for Counternarcotics and Justice Reform in Afghanistan, U.S. Department of State Official, “U.S. Counternarcotics Strategy for Afghanistan” August 2007, Online [FH])</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">The drug problem in … but also by smoking </span></span>


Scenario 1: Algae Blooms 
Poppy cultivation causes Algae blooms 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Trade and Environment Database, 97.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Trade and Environment Database, Case Study: “Colombia Coca Trade.” The Mandala Project, Conceived by Professor Jim Lee of American University. Online. [KC])</span></span>
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Pollution is</span>__****__<span style="color: black;"> also <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a factor </span>… restricts water flow.</span>__**


Algae Blooms drains atmospheric oxygen – kills every living creature. 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">ScienceDaily, 2k8.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Science Daily: “Harmful Algae Takes Advantage of Global Warming: More Algae Blooms Expected” 4–7–08. Online. [KC])</span></span>
**__<span style="color: black;">Fish and other <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">aquatic ... right after the cockroaches.</span> </span>__**


Algae blooms destroy oceans 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cole, 2k8.</span>** (Sally Cole, expert Saltspring Island resident. “World's oceans could become "soupy swill": expert Saltspring Island resident Sally Cole got home from a sailing trip in August looking forward to a hot shower. But when she turned on her taps, all she got was slime” September 13, 2008. Online [FH]) 
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Millions of tonnes of “nutrient pollution” … </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> have nothing left.”</span>__**


Oceanic Collapse Causes Extinction 
Craig, 2k3. <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Robin Kundis Craig, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law. Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii, McGeorge Law Review. Winter, 2003) </span></span>
<span class="ToReadChar1">The world's <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">oceans </span>…</span>to future generations. 


Algal blooms collapse biodiversity 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">EPA, 2k9</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Environmental Protection Agency, “Polllution” 12/28/09, Online [FH])</span></span>
<span style="color: black;"> In addition to …<span class="Underline"> paralytic shellfish poisoning. </span></span>


That takes out all defense – ecosystems can only recover and maintain resiliency if they are biodiverse 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Wilson, 2k2.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor– Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Ecosystems are kept </span><span style="color: black;">…</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;"> forest vegetation still more. </span>


Extinction Rate Outweighs Any of their Resiliency Arguments 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Rosenweig 2k1.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Michael L. Rosenzweig, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, 2001, PNAS, Volume 98, No. 10, May 8, p. 5404 [EBSCO])</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Accidents that …</span><span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> keep up with the losses.</span></span>


Adaptation Fails – It is Only Short Term 
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Bertolllini, 2k2</span><span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Colin L. Soskolne & Roberto Bertollini, Professor Department of Health Sciences, University of Alberta & WHO, 2002, Conservation Medicine, eds. Aguirre, Ostefeld, Tabor, House & Pearl, p. 374)</span></span>
<span class="ToReadChar1">Some are …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> ongoing ecological destruction.</span> </span>


Killer Algae Bloom Theory is Peer Reviewed and Scientifically Accepted 
Blumenthal, 2k9. <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Les Blumenthal, writes for McClatchy's Washington state newspapers, has been a working journalist for 19 years, specializes in major environmental issues. “Toxic Algae Could be the Next Big Threat” 12/18/09. Found @ oceanicdefense.org. Online [FH])</span></span>
"That's exactly what …**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> acceptance among scientists. </span>__**




**Scenario 2: Russian Mafia**
**Heroin is traded for nuclear warheads sold internationally by the Russian mafia**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Majalla et al, 2k1</span>** (Al-Majalla, Al-Watan al-Arabi and Al-Wasat, Middle Eastern news sources, “Bin Laden's Nuclear Weapons” 12/27/01, Online [FH]) 
Al-Watan al-Arabi goes … cocaine during the 80’s and 90’s. 


**Groups that receive nuclear weapons from the Russian Mafia are the ONLY nuclear threats – makes nuclear use inevitable and causes extinction**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Power, 97</span>** (Jonathan Power, staff writer for the Baltimore Sun, “Threat of the Russian nuclear mafia” 10/14/97, Online [FH]) 
**__The real issue … Hiroshima and Nagasaki__**


**Only free-lance independent groups will use nuclear weapons – nation-states will not – Nuclear taboo outweighs all others considerations for nations**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Perkovich, 2k9</span>** (George Perkovich, vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear-Free World” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, Online [FH]) 
**__The underlying difficulty__**, … **__aggression against Taiwan first.__**


Independent group use of a nuclear weapon shatters the taboo – turns your nuclear war scenarios 
Gusterson, 2k7 <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Hugh Gusterson, professor of anthropology and sociology at George Mason University, expertise in nuclear culture, “Nuclear terrorism: Correcting the future” 6/4/07, Online [FH])</span></span>
We already know **__… <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">with nuclear weapons</span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">? </span>


**Scenario 3: Balkan Instability**
**Heroin trade finances conflicts and instability in the Balkans.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Chossudovsky, 99</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Michel., Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa. “The KLA: Gangsters, Terrorists and the CIA.” Online. [KC]) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">Heralded by the … </span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> as a result of the bombings. </span></span>


**<span style="color: black;">Causes global war – Balkans are a flashpoint </span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Paris, 2k2</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Roland, Assistant Professor of Political Science and International Affairs at University of Colorado, Political Science Quarterly, “Kosovo and the metaphor war”, Volume 117, Issue 3, Fall, Proquest)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">At this early stage … before it is too late. </span>


**Balkan instability is the most likely cause of global war.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Brzezinski, 2k3</span>****<span style="color: black;"> (</span>**<span style="color: black;">Zbigniew, Prof. American Foreign Policy @ Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, “Hegemonic Quicksand”, The National Interest #74, Winter 2003.)</span>
**__FOR THE next … global hegemony at <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">risk.</span>__**


**Balkans have the highest probability war scenario because it’s an ethnic conflict – ceasefires fail**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Stefanova, 2k3 </span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">(</span>Radoslava Stefanova, officer at NATO's Political Affairs and Security Policy Division, Lecturer in International Relations at the American University of Rome, Ph.D. candidate at the European University Institute, “ New Security Challenges in the Balkans” 2003 34: 169 Security Dialogue, Online [FH]) 
**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Ethnic wars tend </span>… in Macedonia and Kosovo.__**


**Contention 2: Solvency**
**Military efforts exacerbates drug production – troop reduction key to use other strategies – only way to transition away from drug production and collapse the trade.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">McCoy, 2k10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Alfred W. McCoy, J.R.W. Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin– Madison. He is the author of The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade, staff writer for CBS News, “Can Anyone Pacify An Opium State?” CBS News, 3/31/10, Online [FH]) </span>
<span style="color: black;">With its forces now …<span class="Underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> ruined in decades of war.</span></span> </span>


**Troop Withdrawal only way to destabilize the heroin market.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Caulkins et al, 2k10</span>** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan Caulkins, Professor in Operations Research and Public Policy @ Carnehie Mellon, Former director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, Mark Kleiman. Professor of Public Policy and Director of Drug Policy Analysis Program @ UCLA. Jonathan Kulick, Advisor for State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration, Former Director of Studies @ Georgian Foundation for Strategic & International Studies, “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June 2010, Online [FH])</span></span>
While **__anticorruption efforts … law enforcement agencies.__**


**<span style="color: black;">ANY strategy utilizing military presence will fuel the drug trade and undermine successful strategies. </span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Carpenter, 2k4</span>** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, is the author or editor of 16 books on international affairs, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror” CATO Institute, 11/10/04, Online [FH]) </span></span>
<span style="color: black;">That is especially true … <span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> areas to drug cultivation. </span></span> </span>


**<span style="color: black;">The changes in counterarcotics pushing for interdiction made the problem worse.</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Beyerstein, 2k9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">(Lindsay Beyerstein, award-winning investigative journalist based in Brooklyn, NY. Her reporting has appeared in Salon, Slate, The New York Press, In These Times, AlterNet, and other publications. She was the recipient of a 2009 Project Censored Award. , “Afghan drug war: Interdiction to replace crop eradication” 7/31/09, Online [FH])</span>
<span style="color: black;">U.S. envoy Richard **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">… market for a drug market? </span>__**</span>

<span class="Underline">The changes in counternarcotics policy still require us to end military involvement and aggressive policies for success. </span>
**Brown, 2k10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Vanda Felbab-Brown, Adjunct Professor in the Security Studies Program at the School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University and a Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution. Specializing in issues of conflict and national security, she received her Ph.D. in political science from MIT and her B.A. in government from Harvard University. “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” The Brookings Institution, 2010, Online [FH]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bans on poppy cultivation and </span>**__…__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> years to reach its goals. </span>


<span class="Underline">Ending military involvement is a prerequisite to other approaches succeeding </span>
**Brown, 2k10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Vanda Felbab-Brown, Adjunct Professor in the Security Studies Program at the School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University and a Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution. Specializing in issues of conflict and national security, she received her Ph.D. in political science from MIT and her B.A. in government from Harvard University. “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” The Brookings Institution, 2010, Online [FH]) </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">To varying degrees, … implications of the analysis. </span></span>


**<span style="color: black;">Legalization of Poppy Fails Miserably </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Green, 2k7 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Eric Green, USINFO staff writer, “United States Opposes Legalizing Opium Poppy Crop in Afghanistan”, 06/05/07, Online [FH]) </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Legalizing</span><span style="color: black;"> the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">opium </span>…</span></span><span style="color: black;"> to attack the problem. </span>


**<span style="color: black;">The Office of National Drug Control Policy can set guidelines over the military – is internationally modeled – and has authorizations over counternarcotics. </span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">ONDCP, 2k8</span>** <span style="color: black;">(Office of National Drug Control Policy, “Source Countries and Drug Transit Zones: Afghanistan” 2008, Online [FH]) </span>
<span style="color: black;">While Afghan opium … <span class="Underline">and military <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">organizations. </span> </span></span>


**<span style="color: black;">ONDCP budget includes authorizations on funding allocation for military counternarcotics efforts </span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Davis et al, 2k7</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Patrick Murphy, Lynn E. Davis, Timothy Liston, David E. Thaler, Katharine Watkins Webb, RAND's Science and Technology Division and RAND's Drug Policy Research Center, “Improving Anti–Drug Budgeting” RAND Corp, 12/07/07, Online [FH]) </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">The ONDCP budget </span><span style="color: black;">…</span></span><span style="color: black;"> costs and expenses. </span>


**Your disads are inevitable – Obama is committed to a significant reduction of Afghan military presence by next year.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Allen et al, September 23.</span>** (Glenn Thrush and Michael Allen, correspondents for Politico, “Book: Obama firm on Afghan timeline” 2010, Online [FH]) 
For the past year…**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> the</span> whole <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Democratic Party.”</span>__**

==Baylor RR Aff Updates== 
New Text, New Cards

<span class="Underline">Text: the United States Drug Enforcement Agency should withdraw its personnel engaged in counternarcotics operations in Afghanistan.</span>

**A natural fungus wiped out half the opium poppies this year – we only have to win 50 percent solvency to collapse cultivation – failure to act this year will allow for irreversible expansion of the heroin trade.**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Volkov, January 20</span>**. (Andrey Volkov, Epoch Times Staff Writer, “Afghan Opium Production Drops, But Income Soars” 2011, Online [FH])
<span style="color: black;">Afghan opium **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">poppy </span>__**... in a statement.</span>

**<span class="Underline">Afghan opiates cause a systemic impact of one hundred thousand deaths annually and creates conditions for war – turns your disads – it will be the lifeline of the international heroin trade for years.</span>**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">BBC, 2k9</span> </span>**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">(“Afghan opium fuels 'global chaos'” 10/21/09, Online)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Afghanistan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> has a monopoly on ... </span>many more <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">years </span>to come.</span>

==<span class="Underline">TFA State 1AC - Updated</span>== 

<span class="Underline">Text: the United States Drug Enforcement Administration should withdraw its personnel engaged in counternarcotics operations in Afghanistan. </span>

Contention 1: Heroin Trade 
Status quo emphasizes aggressive policies to stop poppy cultivation– trades off with other pillars of the US counternarcotics strategy that can eliminate the drug trade. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Glaze, 2k7.</span> <span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(John A. Glaze</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt; font-weight: normal;">lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force, is Deputy Commander of the 353rd Special Operations Group at Kadena Air Base, Japan. He previously held positions as Commander of the 67th Special Operations Service (SOS) of the Royal Air Force in Mindenhall, Great Britain; Operations Officer of the 9th SOS at Eglin Air Force Base, Florida; Chairman of the Special Airlift Branch of the Joint Countermine Operation Simulation at Ft. Bragg, North Carolina; Air Force Institute of Technology at Ft. Dix, New Jersey; Standards/Evaluations Flight CC/Chairman of Safety of 550th SOS/58 Special Operations Wing at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico; and C– 130 E Adverse Weather Aerial Delivery System Navigator of the 40th Airlift Squadron at Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina. Lieutenant Colonel Glaze holds a B.S. in business administration from the University of Arizona, Tucson; an M.A. in management from Webster University, Albuquerque, New Mexico; an M.A. in military arts and sciences from Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama; an M.A. in strategic studies from the U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, PA; and a master’s degree in logistics from the Air Force Institute of Technology, Ft. Dix, New Jersey,</span> <span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">“Opium and Afghanistan: Reassessing U.S. Counternarcotics Strategy” Strategic Studies Institute, 10/2007, Online [FH])</span> 
<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">security</span> situation <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">in</span> …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> an ineffective counternarcotics program. </span></span></span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Aggressive counternarcotics efforts only increase overall trafficking revenue – makes heroin market stability inevitable </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Caulkins et al, 2k10</span></span>** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan Caulkins, Professor in Operations Research and Public Policy @ Carnehie Mellon, Former director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, Mark Kleiman. Professor of Public Policy and Director of Drug Policy Analysis Program @ UCLA. Jonathan Kulick, Advisor for State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration, Former Director of Studies @ Georgian Foundation for Strategic & International Studies, “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June 2010, Online [FH])</span></span> 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__In addition to the “horizontal” … revenues and <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">profits. </span>__</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">A natural fungus wiped out half the opium poppies this year – we only have to win 50 percent solvency to collapse cultivation – failure to act this year will allow for irreversible expansion of the heroin trade. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Volkov, January 20</span></span>**. (Andrey Volkov, Epoch Times Staff Writer, “Afghan Opium Production Drops, But Income Soars” 2011, Online [FH]) 
<span style="color: black;">Afghan opium **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">poppy </span>…__</span>** in a statement. </span>

<span class="Underline">Afghan opiates cause a systemic impact of one hundred thousand deaths annually and creates conditions for war – turns your disads – it will be the lifeline of the international heroin trade for years. </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">BBC, 2k9</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">(“Afghan opium fuels 'global chaos'” 10/21/09, Online) </span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Afghanistan</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> has a …</span></span>** more <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">years </span>to come.  </span>

Scenario 1: Algae Blooms 
Poppy cultivation causes them 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Trade and Environment Database, 97.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Trade and Environment Database, Case Study: “Colombia Coca Trade.” The Mandala Project, Conceived by Professor Jim Lee of American University. Online. [KC])</span></span> <span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="tab-stops: 45.8pt 91.6pt 137.4pt 183.2pt 229.0pt 274.8pt 320.6pt 366.4pt 412.2pt 458.0pt 503.8pt 549.6pt 595.4pt 641.2pt 687.0pt 732.8pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Pollution is</span>__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="color: black;"> also … and restricts water flow.</span>__</span>** </span>

Algae Blooms drains atmospheric oxygen – kills every living creature. 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">ScienceDaily, 2k8.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Science Daily: “Harmful Algae Takes Advantage of Global Warming: More Algae Blooms Expected” 4–7–08. Online. [KC])</span></span> 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="color: black;">Fish and other <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">... the cockroaches.</span> </span>__</span>**

Algae blooms destroy oceans  
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Cole, 2k8</span>****<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">.</span>** (Sally Cole, expert Saltspring Island resident. “World's oceans could become "soupy swill": expert Saltspring Island resident Sally Cole got home from a sailing trip in August looking forward to a hot shower. But when she turned on her taps, all she got was slime” September 13, 2008. Online [FH]) 
<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">Millions of tonnes …</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> we have nothing left.”</span>__** 

Oceanic Collapse Causes Extinction  
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Craig, 2k3</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span><span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Robin Kundis Craig, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law. Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection? Fishing and Coral Reef Marine Reserves in Florida and Hawaii, McGeorge Law Review. Winter, 2003)  </span></span>
<span class="ToReadChar1">The world's <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">oceans </span>…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> intact to future generations. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Algal blooms collapse biodiversity</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">EPA, 2k9</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Environmental Protection Agency, “Polllution” 12/28/09, Online [FH])</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> In addition to …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">paralytic shellfish poisoning.  </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">That takes out all defense – ecosystems can only recover and maintain resiliency if they are biodiverse</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Wilson, 2k2.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Edward O. Wilson, Harvard Professor– Museum of Comparative Zoology, 2002, The Future of Life, p. 109)</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Ecosystems are kept </span><span style="color: black;">…</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">forest vegetation still more. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Extinction Rate Outweighs Resiliency</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Rosenweig 2k1.</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Michael L. Rosenzweig, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona, 2001, PNAS, Volume 98, No. 10, May 8, p. 5404 [EBSCO])</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Accidents that eradicate …</span><span class="ToReadChar1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> with the losses.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Killer Algae Bloom Theory is Peer Reviewed and Scientifically Accepted </span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Blumenthal, 2k9</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span><span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Les Blumenthal, writes for McClatchy's Washington state newspapers, has been a working journalist for 19 years, specializes in major environmental issues. “Toxic Algae Could be the Next Big Threat” 12/18/09. Found @ oceanicdefense.org. Online [FH])</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"That's exactly what we …</span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> acceptance among scientists. </span>__</span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Scenario 2: Russian Mafia </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Heroin is traded for nuclear warheads sold internationally by the Russian mafia </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Majalla et al, 2k1</span></span>** (Al-Majalla, Al-Watan al-Arabi and Al-Wasat, Middle Eastern news sources, “Bin Laden's Nuclear Weapons” 12/27/01, Online [FH]) 
<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">Al-Watan al-Arabi …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> during the 80’s and 90’s.  </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Groups that receive nuclear weapons from the Russian Mafia are the ONLY nuclear threats – makes nuclear use inevitable and causes extinction </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Power, 97</span></span>** (Jonathan Power, staff writer for the Baltimore Sun, “Threat of the Russian nuclear mafia” 10/14/97, Online [FH]) 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The real issue in terms …since Hiroshima and Nagasaki__  </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Only independent groups will use nuclear weapons – nation-states have a nuclear taboo. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Perkovich, 2k9</span> </span>**(George Perkovich, vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “Extended Deterrence on the Way to a Nuclear-Free World” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament, May 2009, Online [FH]) 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The underlying difficulty__</span>**, …**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> __against Taiwan first.__ </span>**

Independent group use of a nuclear weapon shatters the taboo – turns your nuclear war scenarios 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Gusterson, 2k7</span> <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Hugh Gusterson, professor of anthropology and sociology at George Mason University, expertise in nuclear culture, “Nuclear terrorism: Correcting the future” 6/4/07, Online [FH])</span></span> 
We already know **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__… <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> with nuclear weapons</span>__</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">?  </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Scenario 3: Balkan Instability </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Heroin trade finances conflicts and instability in the Balkans. </span>**
<span style="tab-stops: 365.25pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Chossudovsky, 99</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">(Michel., Professor of Economics at the University of Ottawa. “The KLA: Gangsters, Terrorists and the CIA.” Online. [KC]) </span></span>
<span style="tab-stops: 365.25pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 5.0pt;">Heralded by the global media as a humanitarian peace– keeping mission, NATO's ruthless bombing of Belgrade and Pristina goes far beyond the breach of international law. While Slobodan Milosevic is demonized, portrayed as a remorseless dictator, the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) is upheld as a self– respecting nationalist movement struggling for the rights of ethnic Albanians. The truth of the matter is that the KLA is sustained by organized crime with the tacit approval of the United States and its allies. …<span class="Underline"> as a result of the bombings. </span></span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: 365.25pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">Causes global war – Balkans are a flashpoint </span></span>**</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Paris, 2k2</span></span>** <span style="color: black;">(Roland, Assistant Professor of Political Science and International Affairs at University of Colorado, Political Science Quarterly, “Kosovo and the metaphor war”, Volume 117, Issue 3, Fall, Proquest)</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;"> </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">At this early stage … before it is too late.  </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Balkans have the highest probability war scenario because it’s an ethnic conflict – ceasefires fail </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Stefanova, 2k3 </span></span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">(</span>Radoslava Stefanova, officer at NATO's Political Affairs and Security Policy Division, Lecturer in International Relations at the American University of Rome, Ph.D. candidate at the European University Institute, “ New Security Challenges in the Balkans” 2003 34: 169 Security Dialogue, Online [FH]) 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Ethnic wars </span>…Macedonia and Kosovo.__ </span>**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Contention 2: Solvency </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Withdrawal key to use other strategies – only way to transition away from drug production and collapse the trade.<span style="color: black;"> </span></span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">McCoy, 2k10</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Alfred W. McCoy, J.R.W. Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin– Madison. He is the author of The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade, staff writer for CBS News, “Can Anyone Pacify An Opium State?” CBS News, 3/31/10, Online [FH]) </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 5.0pt;">With its forces now …</span><span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;"> ruined in decades of war.</span></span>**</span><span style="color: black;">  </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Withdrawal is the only way to destabilize the heroin market. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Caulkins et al, 2k10</span></span>** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan Caulkins, Professor in Operations Research and Public Policy @ Carnehie Mellon, Former director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, Mark Kleiman. Professor of Public Policy and Director of Drug Policy Analysis Program @ UCLA. Jonathan Kulick, Advisor for State Ministry of Georgia for Reintegration, Former Director of Studies @ Georgian Foundation for Strategic & International Studies, “Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan.” June 2010, Online [FH])</span></span> 
While **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__anticorruption efforts …__</span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">than law enforcement agencies. </span>__</span>**
<span style="font-size: 5.0pt;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">ANY strategy utilizing troop presence will fuel the drug trade and undermine successful strategies.</span></span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Carpenter, 2k4</span></span>** <span class="CiteBodyCardChar1"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, is the author or editor of 16 books on international affairs, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror” CATO Institute, 11/10/04, Online [FH]) </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 5.0pt;">That is especially true of the …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">areas to drug cultivation. </span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;"> </span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">The changes in counternarcotics pushing for interdiction made the problem worse.</span></span>** 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Beyerstein, 2k9</span> </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 9.0pt;">(Lindsay Beyerstein, award-winning investigative journalist based in Brooklyn, NY. Her reporting has appeared in Salon, Slate, The New York Press, In These Times, AlterNet, and other publications. She was the recipient of a 2009 Project Censored Award. , “Afghan drug war: Interdiction to replace crop eradication” 7/31/09, Online [FH])</span><span style="color: black;"> </span>
<span style="color: black;">U.S. envoy …**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> for a drug market? </span>__</span>**</span>

<span class="Underline">The changes in counternarcotics policy still require us to end aggressive policies for success. </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Brown, 2k10</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Vanda Felbab-Brown, Adjunct Professor in the Security Studies Program at the School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University and a Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution. Specializing in issues of conflict and national security, she received her Ph.D. in political science from MIT and her B.A. in government from Harvard University. “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” The Brookings Institution, 2010, Online [FH]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bans on poppy cultivation and </span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__…__</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> many years to reach its goals.  </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">Withdrawal is a prerequisite to other approaches succeeding </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Brown, 2k10</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Vanda Felbab-Brown, Adjunct Professor in the Security Studies Program at the School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University and a Fellow in Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution. Specializing in issues of conflict and national security, she received her Ph.D. in political science from MIT and her B.A. in government from Harvard University. “Shooting up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Drugs” The Brookings Institution, 2010, Online [FH]) </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">To varying degrees, …</span></span>****<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">implications of the analysis. </span></span>**</span>
<span style="text-indent: .25in;"><span style="color: black;"> </span></span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">Legalization Fails  </span></span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Green, 2k7</span> </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Eric Green, USINFO staff writer, “United States Opposes Legalizing Opium Poppy Crop in Afghanistan”, 06/05/07, Online [FH])  </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Legalizing</span><span style="color: black;"> the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">opium </span>…</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 5.0pt;"> will” to attack the problem. </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> </span> 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">DEA has jurisdiction and is the linchpin of international counternarcotics efforts. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">DEA, 2k5</span></span>** (“International Training” Last Date Cited in Article is August 21, 2005, Online [FH]) 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The DEA</span>__</span>** International Training Section (TRI) **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__…__</span>**, and judicial reforms.  


=Negative= 

==Cyber-Security Riders DA== 
**Unique Link – Cyber Security bill won’t pass on its own – plan is a key vehicle for a rider**
**Chabrow, August 25.** (Eric Chabrow, Executive Editor @ Gov Info Security, a leading website that covers government cybersecurity, “Infosec Provisions Seen as Rider to Senate Defense Bill” Online [FH])
The Senate is considering . . . makes a lot of sense."

**Impact – Cyber Security Kills Democracy**
**Washington Times, 2k9**. (THE WASHINGTON TIMES. "Free speech includes talking trash". 10/12/09. Online. [TR]) 
*THIS ARTICLE IS NO LONGER AVAILABLE ONLINE SO FULL TEXT IS PROVIDED*
The Internet stands as one of the last uncensored avenues for information exchange ("America's Internet police," Editorial, Friday). Though there are many problems associated with uncontrolled flow of information, why can't we let Americans decide for themselves what is garbage and what is legitimate just as they do with junk mail? Americans' right to be informed and speak out should take precedence over the efforts by some in our government to prevent this free flow of information. In that spirit, Americans should do everything in their legal power to make certain that the Cybersecurity Act of 2009, sponsored by Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV, West Virginia Democrat, never passes. That would be the death knell to our nation's democracy. A true democracy functions only when all of its citizens are properly informed and debate freely in whatever venue they choose.

**Extinction.**
**Diamond, 95.** (Larry Diamond, Senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University. “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and Instruments, Issues and Imperatives,” December 1995. Online.) 
Nuclear, chemical, and biological . . . prosperity can be built."

==Naval Riders DA== 
__<span class="Underline">The Navy is attempting to buy littoral combat ships – status quo means Navy will have to pick a shipyard to buy from but they are advocating a proposal to purchase from 2 different shipyards – they will only get permission for their proposal if Congress passes a bill to allow it – Congress will pass that legislation as a rider to the plan </span>__
__<span class="Underline">Drew, November 5. </span>__<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">__(Christopher Drew, staff writer NYT, “To Capitalize on Low Bids, Navy Hopes to Name 2 Winners for Ship Contract” 2010, Online [FH])__ </span></span>
<span class="Underline">The Navy has …contract for 10 ships. </span>

<span class="Underline">Awarding the Navy a 2 bid contract cuts off Bath Iron Works from future bidding for ship contracts – this prevents the development of Coast Guard cutters </span>
<span class="Underline">Sharp, November 9<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">. (David Sharp, AP Staff writer, “Senator: Navy LCS plan hurts Bath shipyard bid” 2010, Online [FH]) </span></span>
<span class="Underline">A Navy proposal …<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">possibly the smaller Navy ships. </span> </span>

**Coast Guard cutters key to guard against terrorism in ports.**
**Lipton, 2k6**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Eric Lipton, staff writer NYT, Pulitzer Prize Winner, “Billions Later, Plan to Remake The Coast Guard Fleet Stumbles” 12/19/06, NYT, Online [FH]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**__problems have__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span> **__saving money over the long run.__**

**Terrorist attack at a port kills the global economy in 3 weeks.**
**Flynn 2k3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Stephen, Natl Sec Studies, “The Fragile state of container security,” testimony before the senate, March 20 http://www.cfr.org/publication.html?id=5730 </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A year later I joined …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> up international trade</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
[[#_Toc277631042]]
**<span style="color: black;">Global Nuclear War </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Bearden , 2k</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas Bearden, Director of the Distinguished American Scientists (ADAS), 2000) </span>
**__<span style="color: black;">History bears … for many decades</span>__****<span style="color: black;">. </span>**

==Biopolitics K== 
**Reforms in the military are extension of biopower—ceding of genocidal power to liberalism – the plan affirms the governments control over life in the name of security – Individual subjectivity is not possible and allows seemingly democratic governments to disguise totalitarian impulses – the plan makes possible the extension of total control and the smooth functioning of violent biopolitics.**
**Dean, 2k,** Department of Sociology at Macquarie University, 2000 (Mitchell, Always Look on the Dark Side of Life: Politics and the Meaning of Life) 
This thesis overcomes the successionist … they make possible its extension. 

**Their view of international order is soveirgn violence is the solution to soveirgn violence. They are a mask on the states monopoly of power justified through biopolitical defense of society – this defense creates zones of exception were the state wages limitless violence to protect society’s biological existence – turns their impacts and makes extinction inevitable.**
**Duffield, 2k4** (Mark Duffield, Department of Politics and International Relations, University of Lancaster, “Carry on Killing: Global Governance, Humanitarianism and Terror” 2004, Online [FH]) 
Bio-politics emerged with modernity … declaration of war on terrorism. 

**Their attempt at reducing military presence is a self fulfilling paradox – it only reinforces the idea that militarism is the answer to security issues and prevents us from ever getting to the root of security threats – turns case – thus the alternative is to reject the affirmative as a corruption of the states monopoly over force and to delegitimize the extent of soveirgn control over the individual**
**Liotta, 2k5** (P. H. Liotta, Professor of Humanities at Salve Regina University, Newport, RI, and 
Executive Director of the Pell Center for International Relations and Public Policy, “Through the Looking Glass: Creeping Vulnerabilities and the Reordering of Security” International Peace Research Institute, Oslo, 2005, Online @ SAGE Publications [FH]) 
It would be reasonable at … – or fail to address – security.