[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=Negative= 
=Disaster Porn K= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span class="Tag">The affirmative’s link and impact story gain credibility through horrifying impacts and death counts. Death and disaster exploitation causes the impacts to lose any reference to the real world and is worse than violence itself. </span>**</span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard ’94</span></span> <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Jean Baudrillard, The Illusion of the End pg. 55-58]</span></span>
In the case of the Romanian revolution...monitoring screen

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span class="Tag">The ballot is addicted to disaster porn. This fills our minds with images of disaster, and the images become nothing but images; loss of meaning is inevitable.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard ’94</span></span> <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Jean Baudrillard, The Illusion of the End pg. 55-58]</span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12px; line-height: 18px;">Many Romanian eyewitness ... of act and sign.</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span class="Tag">This use of disaster porn leads to loss of value to life </span>**</span>
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard ’94</span></span> <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Jean Baudrillard, The Illusion of the End pg. 55-58]</span></span>
There is no will to communicate...media speculation.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">Constant usage of disaster porn will lead to an exhaustion of disasters. After running out we will simulate and create our own disasters in order to further the fetish. Turns case.</span>**
<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard ’90</span></span> <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Jean Baudrillard, //The Transparency of Evil: Essays on Extreme Phenomena//, pg. 3-4]</span></span>
If I were asked to characterize...sort of inescapable indifference.


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span class="Tag">The alternative is to vote Neg to deconstruct the practice of the affirmative. Your ballot for the Neg signifies this terrorist act against the system, reducing the game of fiat to absurdity.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baudrillard ’01</span></span> <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Jean, “The Spirit of Terrorism” ]</span></span></span>
Another serious objection...into the Twin Towers.


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]