[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="color: black;">The value is Morality.</span>

<span style="color: black;">Ought is defined as desirability.</span>

<span style="color: black;">Since societal definition of desirability hinges on what is right and wrong, which is dictated to us through Morality, it must be the paramount value in this round.</span>

<span style="color: black;">Observation 1: The resolution does not mandate that the affirmative defend the discontinuation of drug use.</span>

<span style="color: black;">Observation 2: </span>the negative must defend stopping drugs; they must advocate criminalization. The affirmative must also state that criminalization is a bad policy, as well as the fact that public health is a good standard for the round.

<span style="color: black;">The Criterion is minimizing suffering.</span>

Since suffering is a direct violation of a moral side constraint, it is going to link back into the value through both deontology, and most forms of utilitarianism, since it is not the greatest good if everyone is suffering.


<span style="color: black;">1) </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Criminalization is a bad policy.</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 19px;">A)</span>Increases profits and crime associated with drugs</span>



<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Schultz, David. Assistant Prof of PoliSci, Trinity University. “Rethinking Drug Criminalization Policies.” Texas Tech Law Review, 19</span>**93**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


//<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Economists have argued...</span>**illegal drug market.**//

//<span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Criminalization doesnʼt stop drug use</span>//



//**Boaz**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, David. Exec VP of Cato Institute. “Drug Legalization, Criminalization, and Harm Reduction.” Cato Institute, June 16, 19</span>**99**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">. http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5059</span>//



//**As for discouraging...****prohibition has failed**//


//**<span style="color: black;">The Impact </span>**//


//**<span style="color: black;">Clark</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">, Walter, October 22, 20</span>**<span style="color: black;">10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">: “Proposition 19 is better than failing ‘drug war’” [Walter Clark is an attorney with the Walter Clark Legal Group. He is a former Riverside County deputy district attorney and a member of LEAP (Law Enforcement Against Prohibition). He serves as a board member and activist for numerous Coachella Valley charity and community organizations. He also writes for the Desert Sun Newspaper.]</span>//


//**<span style="color: black;">The “drug war”...</span>**<span style="font-size: 9px;">Proposition 19 a chance.</span>//


//**<span style="color: black;">B) Criminalization is an Abuse of Power, and a Violation of Autonomy</span>**//


//<span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Criminalizing drugs has become a justification for violating civil rights</span>//



//**Schultz 2**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, David. Assistant Prof of PoliSci, Trinity University. “Rethinking Drug Criminalization Policies.” Texas Tech Law Review, 1993. </span>//

//**In addition to...t**<span style="line-height: 19px;">**han other Americans.**</span>//



//<span style="font-family: Helvetica-Bold,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Government doesnʼt have the right to criminalize private behavior like drug use</span>//



//**Schultz 3**<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, David. Assistant Prof of PoliSci, Trinity University. “Rethinking Drug Criminalization Policies.” Texas Tech Law Review, 1993. </span>//


//<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Assuming for </span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">now...</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11px;">justifying the ban.</span>//



//<span style="color: black;">2) **Public Health Focus Solves For Drug Cartels**</span>//


//**<span style="color: black;">At the Heart of the Problem, In Mexico</span>**//


//**Camin**, Hector A., **and** Jorge G. **Castaneda**. "California's Prop 19, on legalizing marijuana, could end Mexico's drug war."// The Washington Post//. N.p., 5 Sept. 2010. Web. **22 Oct.** **2010**.//


//The costs of...<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">7-Eleven sells pot?</span>//


//Drug cartel violence has effects in America as well//


//**Thompson**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jonathan. Contributor to Writers on the Range. “Decriminalizing drugs could stop the violence along the border.” High Country News, February 20**,**</span> **2009**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.hcn.org/wotr/decriminalizing-drugs-could-stop-the-violenceon</span>//



//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Though most of...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">in somebody's freezer.</span>//



//<span style="color: black;">3)</span>**Public Health Focus Allows Government to Regulate Drugs and Take Power Away from Cartels**//


//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Benavie, Arthur. Professor of Economics, UNC Chapel Hill. “The Real War: Putting Drug Cartels Out of Business.” Durham Herald-Sun, June</span> **2010**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.heraldsun.com/view/full_story/7557750/article-The-real-war--Puttingthedrug-cartels-out-of-business</span>//



**The only way...****the black market.**



The impacts are threefold:

1. It will directly decrease the amount of cartels, decrease in suffering as wars come to a stop.

2. Drugs will become safer. regulated through the FDA,

3. The billions of dollars in taxes will be able to help relieve suffering in some part of the country.

Thus, you affirm. 



<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px; margin-bottom: 11.25pt;">**Negative**</span>



=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative==