[[toc]]
=Aff= 

==Vulnerability-Alta, Nat Quals (3-3-11)== 
We present the following plan: the United States federal government should remove all troops from Turkey, the Republic of Korea, Japan, Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan.





First, Nuclear Weapons represent a false sense of security, perpetuating a denial of vulnerability and flawed policies of realism, isolationism and expansionism that attempt to protect the United States from all threats around the globe. Nuclear weapons today prove that we live in a state of shared global vulnerability to violence. The current US stance ignores the call of other nations for us to embrace a community created by our shared exposure to violence and loss. Troops Prove!
Rolfsen 2008 (Cdr. Sen. Gr. Raag Rolfsen, Yale Center For Faith and Culture) Breakout Session, “The Significance of Vulnerability in a Time of Crisis” Remarks: Sarah Smith Memorial Conferences 2008: “Are we safe yet?”
<span class="ShrinkChar">The theme of this present conference</span> .... 
<span class="ShrinkChar">again join in a fight to save our common world.</span>

*Clarification: the argument is that since the creation of the bomb we've lived in an era of vulnerability, but the United States denies that vulnerability


<span style="line-height: 115%;">Second, current US politics deny acts of vulnerability by exploiting fear and detachment. The time has come for all of us to remove these blankets and expose our weaknesses. The "loss" of security is necessary to rearticulate and reorient our social and political spaces.</span>
<span style="line-height: 115%;"> Butler 2004 (Judith Butler, Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence, Verso, New York, 2004, pg .40-41)</span>
<span class="ShrinkChar">I condemn on several ethical bases the violence.....</span>
<span class="UnderlineandBoldChar">“other to” itself. </span>



We present the following plan: the United States federal government should remove all troops from Turkey, the Republic of Korea, Japan, Kuwait, Iraq, and Afghanistan.
**We reserve the right to clarify.**



Observation 1
1. Voting aff is an embrace of the mutual human vulnerability that makes community possible
Butler, 2004 (Judith Butler, is an [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States|American]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-structuralist|post-structuralist]] philosopher, who has contributed to the fields of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feminism|feminism]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queer_theory|queer theory]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_philosophy|political philosophy]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethics|ethics]]. She is the Maxine Elliot professor in the Departments of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhetoric|Rhetoric]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparative_Literature|Comparative Literature]] at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Berkeley|University of California, Berkeley]].) __Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence.__ Pg. 43-44
Consider that the <span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">struggle …</span></span> I depend in order to be.




2. Vulnerability constitutes a community freed from security by marking the spot where being hurt and being loved form the inseparable and inescapable unity at the heart of the human
Rolfsen 2008 (Cdr. Sen. Gr. Raag Rolfsen, Yale Center For Faith and Culture) Breakout Session, “The Significance of Vulnerability in a Time of Crisis” Remarks: Sarah Smith Memorial Conferences 2008: “Are we safe yet?” G


<span class="ShrinkChar">In line with this, the</span>.... 

<span class="ShrinkChar">vulnerability, and preventing its misuse.</span>





3. We all posses vulnerability. But only mindfulness of that vulnerability leads to productive non-military solutions. We must disrupt the fantasy of mastery that is implicit in our politics surrounding military presence to stop systemic violence.
Butler 2004 (Judith Butler, Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence, Verso, New York, 2004, pg .28-29)

<span class="ShrinkChar">Mourning, fear, anxiety, rage.</span> <span class="UnderlineandBoldChar">In </span> .... 
<span class="ShrinkChar">corporeal vulnerability from our own brief and devastating exposure to this condition?</span>





4. Each of us is constituted politically by the social vulnerability of our bodies; we are united by our admitted risk to violence. The dispossessing effect of loss, from illness to global conflict, can found an unrealized community
Butler, 2004 (Judith Butler, is an [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States|American]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-structuralist|post-structuralist]] philosopher, who has contributed to the fields of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feminism|feminism]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queer_theory|queer theory]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_philosophy|political philosophy]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethics|ethics]]. She is the Maxine Elliot professor in the Departments of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhetoric|Rhetoric]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparative_Literature|Comparative Literature]] at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Berkeley|University of California, Berkeley]].) Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence. Pg. 19-20


<span class="underline"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">I propose to</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 11pt;"> consider a dimension </span>**</span> .... 
<span class="UnderlineandBoldChar">violence by virtue of that exposure.</span>


5. And, Vulnerability is an ethical form of engagement that once recognized has the power to reconstitute itself. We are actively performing this recognition through our advocacy in our discourse.
Butler 2004 (Judith Butler, Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence, Verso, New York, 2004, pg .40-41)


**By insisting on a “common” corporeal vulnerability,**... 
<span class="UnderlineandBoldChar">continuing an expanded operation.</span>


6. And, creating a social transformation to accept the vulnerability of our bodies occurs through individual re-articulation of social practices. An aff ballot despite any and all negative offense can rupture the prevailing episteme of our culture and distraught community by enabling a new relationship to the violence done to our bodies by both our activity and our government

Butler, 2000 (Judith Butler, is an [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States|American]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-structuralist|post-structuralist]] philosopher, who has contributed to the fields of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feminism|feminism]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queer_theory|queer theory]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_philosophy|political philosophy]], and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethics|ethics]]. She is the Maxine Elliot professor in the Departments of [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rhetoric|Rhetoric]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparative_Literature|Comparative Literature]] at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_California,_Berkeley|University of California, Berkeley]].) __Contingency, Hegemony, Universality: Contemporary Dialogues On The Left.__ “Restaging the Universal.” Pg 13-14 G
<span class="ShrinkChar">If the subject always </span> ... 
<span class="UnderlineandBoldChar">collaborative relation with power.</span>


7. <span style="color: black;">Violence on levels of extreme magnitude does not differ and is actually the natural extension of the violence of everyday life. Disrupting this process requires re-centering our political thinking </span>
Susanne <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Kappeler</span></span>, associate professor at the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, Al-Akhawayn University, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">95</span></span> The Will to Violence from the opening chapter “Violence and the Will to Violence”
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This does not </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">mean </span>** ... 
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">our culture and everyday life. </span>__**



8. Dissent and disruption like the case are necessary strategies to oppose the static values of politics. We must maintain a critical view of politics even in a world blanketed in the stigma of security.
Butler 2004 (Judith Butler, Precarious Life: The Powers of Mourning and Violence, Verso, New York, 2004, pg .XVIII-XIXI)
<span style="color: black;">The </span><span class="UnderlineandBoldChar">Levinasian face</span> <span class="ShrinkChar">is not precisely </span> .... 
<span class="UnderlineandBoldChar">also functions as an instrument of censorship. </span>

Observation two is war

War is not a separate event bounded from society, the idea that it is leads to crisis based politics, and only serve to entrench militarism.
Cuomo 96. (Chris J., Hypatia "War is not just an event: reflections on the significance of every day violence" Fall n11 v4 p30)

Philosophical attention to war has typically...to be the inevitability of war and militarism.


==Japan- Berkley Nat Quals== 





=Neg= 

==T== 

===ASPEC=== 

===Substantially ≠ qualified=== 
A interp **__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Substantially means</span>__** <span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">1. essentially; 2.**__without material qualifications__**</span>

**__<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Black's Law </span>__**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">Dictionary: Definitions of the Terms and Phrases of American and English Jurisprudence, Ancient and Modern, West Group, 19**__91__**, pg. 1024</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">B violation. The aff qualifies their withdrawal by specifying out of the 129th and 501st battalions.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">C.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">1. Predictability—our definition assumes all of their offence. Affs will still be large with ample ground, and good links for the neg. But affs violating this by making qulaifications about the withdrawl makes them unpredictable</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">2. Limits—there are thousands of Battalions that aff teams could specify in and out of, an interpretation that allows qualifications to be made lets affs pick and chose underlimiting the topic and allowing them to avoid any an all Specific arguments, that kills good clash too.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">3. Ground—the 129th Battalion PIC is key neg ground to challenge SK affs, as is the 501st intelligence PIC. Taking neg ground prove the resolution untrue. And PIC ground is the only educational CP ground we can have on this topic—your theory arguments don’t apply</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">D. T is a voter for fairness, education, because it is not within the judges juristiction to vote for a non T case, and because the aff must prove the resolution unconditionally true.</span>**


===Reduce ≠ Eliminate=== 
A. Interpretation - Reduce excludes eliminate.
<span class="SourceBold">Words and Phrases 02</span> (vol 36B, p. 80)
Mass. 1905. Rev.Laws, c.203, § 9, provides that, if two or more cases are tried together in the superior court, the presiding judge may “reduce” the witness fees and other costs, but “not less than the ordinary witness fees, and other costs recoverable in one of the cases” which are so tried together shall be allowed. Held that, in reducing the costs, the amount in all the cases together is to be considered and reduced, providing that there must be left in the aggregate an amount not less than the largest sum recoverable in any of the cases. <span class="UnderlinedCard">**The word “reduce,” in its ordinary signification, does not mean to cancel, destroy, or bring to naught, but to diminish, lower, or bring to an inferior state**.</span>—Green v. Sklar, 74 N.E. 595, 188 Mass. 363.
B. Violation – the affirmative completely eliminates US military or police presence in South Korea


C. Voting issue – 

1. limits – they literally unlimit the topic. There is nearly infinite critical literature and all of it is opened up by their elimination. Education doesn’t check that because we cant have clash. 
2. predictability – our evidence signifies the ordinary meaning of reduce; moving beyond the ordinary meaning of words sets a precedent to interpret the all other words unpredictabl
3. Extra T- Their advantage stems from elimination, not the rest of the reduction. And their advocacy of Fem IR is extra T. That’s bad becayse it allows them abusive and negitive ground. Plus it’s unpredictable.




===In = throughout=== 
A. Interpretation: 
The resolution requires military presence to be decreased throughout the entirety of the foreign country. 
1. ‘In’ means throughout 
<span class="SourceBold">Words and Phrases, 1959</span>, p. 546 
In the Act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have <span class="UnderlinedCard">jurisdiction “in” their respective</span> counties to hear and determine all complaints, <span class="UnderlinedCard">the word “in” should be construed to mean “throughout</span>” such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.

B. Violation: the Affirmative decreases Okinawan military presence, NOT presence from the entire country. 
C. Standards: 
1. Limits – the affirmative can target thousands of specific weapons, locations or goals of military presence in the country. They could read affirmatives about particular regions, literally anything as long as it exists within the country, exploding the negative research burden. 
2. Ground – The topic does not say, “decrease within” or “decrease from.” Affecting whole countries is key to generic links and exclusion CPs. Negative ground is vital to fairness. 
3. Topic Education – Our interpretation is the only way to give “substantially,” “the,” and “foreign country” meaning. If they can cover a sub-set of the topic country, destroying the meaning and education of the resolution. 
D. Topicality is a voter for fairness and competitive equity. 



===T ≠ TNWs=== 

A. Interpretation and violation TNWs are not resolutionally germane.

1. 
a. It’s means possession 
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005 </span></span>(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)
Mine, yours, his, hers, <span class="UnderlinedCard">its</span>, ours, theirs <span class="UnderlinedCard">are</span> the <span class="UnderlinedCard">possessive</span> pronouns <span class="UnderlinedCard">used to substitute a noun and to show possession or ownership</span>__.__ EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)
b. And nuclear weapons in Turkey __belong__ to NATO.
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meier</span></span>, 4-28-<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1998</span></span> (Oliver, Berlin Information-center for Transatlantic Security statement coordinator, "NATO Nuclear Weapons Transfers," [[http://www.bits.de/public/articles/om280498.htm]])
Mr. Chairman, we would like to draw attention ...<span class="UnderlinedCard"> umbrella of NATO Alliance, does not possess nuclear weapons."</span>
2. 
a. Presence is Personelle
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Random House Dictionary</span></span> of the English Language, Unabridged, 2nd Ed., <span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1987</span></span>, 1529.
<span class="UnderlinedCard">Presence: The military</span> or economic <span class="UnderlinedCard">power of a country as reflected abroad by the stationing of its troops</span>, sale of its goods, etc.: <span class="UnderlinedCard">the American military presence in Europe</span>.
b. And this is true of Military Policy
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dictionary Of Military Terms,</span></span> 3rd Ed. <span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span>, 187.
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;"><span class="UnderlinedCard">Presence: The fact of having people</span> or units <span class="UnderlinedCard">which represent a particular country</span> or organization <span class="UnderlinedCard">within a particular area</span>.</span>

<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">**c.** **Personnel removed in conjunction with TNWs don’t count—they’re not substancial**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">Substantially means including the main part</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">WORDS AND PHRASES, 1964</span></span>, p. 818. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="UnderlinedCard">“Substantially”</span> means in substance; <span class="UnderlinedCard">in the main</span>; essentially; by including the material <span class="UnderlinedCard">or essential part</span>.</span>

C. Prefer us
1. Predictability – No way predict presence not tied to the agent in the resolution. No way to do so with non-human reductions
2. Resolutional synergy—we define 3 words, all exclude them.
3. Limits—TNWs without limits, that is bad for education.
4. Ground – Political capital and legitimacy disads depend on a possessive connection to the United States. It explodes the research burden to anything dealing with the military in that country. We lost da ground



===T ≠ DU=== 
T
1Our interperatation is that “military presnse” in the resolution means people. Be they troops, peace keepers, whatever.
2 they don’t do this. Their case is taking away Uranium—that is just not the resolution
3. We should win because
a we can’t predict their crazy cases like this. That means that we don’t get to have a good on case debate. If we can’t debate their aff we loose the round and don’t even learn anything that is unfair too.
B the root cause is over specification. They say “spend and unspent depleted uranium munitions in Iraq including cleaning and/or decontaminating areas contaminated by depleted uranium” That is soo specific we get no ground. Additionally they could be more general that’s better.
C Our interperatation is totally fair, it gives them ton’s of other topical cases to run. This is best for debate. Their perspective is only going to focus on Uranium which is way too small.
D Don’t let them say we’re being genocidal by running T. Sure your paln might be a great idea, but it isn’t in the resolution.
4. Judge you need to vote against them because they are not supporting the resolution. As the aff it is their responsibility to do so. We all know that. Additionally they’re bad for our education and this round’s fairness.


===CounTerTerror T=== 
**A. Interp: aff advantages/solvency must be based off troop removal**

**B. Violation: their advantages are predicated on Counter Terror troops remaining in Afghanistan**

**C. Standards**
**1. Predictability—the only predictable advantages this year are those that come from troop reduction. Those based on troops remaining in the topic countries are not only Extra-topical, but also infinitely explode the research burden making negs literally have to research every battalion in every topic country to have disads to their non-removal based advantages.**
**2. Limits—the aff underlimits the topic causing a slippery slope where any topic country action can count as a topical advantage, killing neg ground.**
**3. Ground—remaining troops should be neg ground. Not just PICs, but competitive Counterplans where we get the best education about how the impacts of the advantages are accessed. Taking neg ground is a scenario of in round abuse.**
**4. Resolutional Bidirectionality—allowing affirmatives advantages based on troop presence staying in a country lets affs get advantages from reduction, and the status quo.**

**D. Voters**
**Vote on T to protect Neg ground, set a president for debate, and because the aff must prove the resolution unconditionally true**

**E. Evaluate T under competing interpretations because offense defense is the standard paradigm for debate, not reasonability**

===Phased Withdrawal=== 
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">A. The aff must mandate an immediate decrease in military presence in SK</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;">To reduce is to immediately diminish in size.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guy, 91</span></span> - Circuit Judge (TIM BOETTGER, BECKY BOETTGER, individually and as Next Friend for their Minor Daughter, AMANDA BOETTGER, Plaintiffs-Appellees, v. OTIS R. BOWEN, Secretary of Health and Human Services (89-1832); and C. PATRICK BABCOCK, Director, Michigan Department of Social Services (89-1831), Defendants-Appellants Nos. 89-1831, 89-1832 UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT 923 F.2d 1183; 1991 U.S. App. LEXIS 671)</span>
The district court concluded that ..... <span class="DebateUnderline">extent, or number</span>."). See Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary (9th ed. 1985).
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">B. The affirmative phases out presence in SK</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">C. Vote Neg:</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. The affirmative explodes the topic because they decrease presence at an unpredictable time. The negative can never garner any links because disads are time sensitive. This is an internal link into education because we won’t be able to learn about anything that be conflicting now. </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">2. The affirmative jacks negative ground because a reduction in the future. This should be core negative ground and is an internal link into fairness.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">3. The affirmative underlimit the topic because there are thousands of withdrawal dates, and the negative will never be able to predict, nor will be able to get evidence on the future. </span>


==Kritiks== 

===Nuclearism=== 

Why are debaters so obsessed with nuclear war? 20th century secularization left a symbolic vacuum that was filled in by the image of the Bomb, creating a social and political atmosphere based around nuclear weaponry. The aff's impacts are their conversion to the Church of Nuclearism - their scenarios are not psychologically neutral, but are borne out of the drive to continually imagine total annihilation in order to regain some sense of meaning in an age defined by the potential for massive, senseless destruction.
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chapman '90 </span></span>G Clarke Chapman, chair of the department of religion and philosophy at Moravian College, Facing the Nuclear Hersey, 1990, http://www.colorado.edu/ReligiousStudies/chernus/4820-ColdWarCulture/Readings/FacingTheNuclearHeresy.pdf
We begin with Robert Jay Lifton, ... sense our creatureliness and absolute vulnerability.47
[[#_Toc266596114]]
Nuclearism is a violent and totalitarian means of social relation, obliterating all meaning to life outside of continued, escalating violence. We come to regard total annihilation as preferable to a constant state of paranoia - politically, this provides the actual basis for nuclear weapon use, which turns the aff. 
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chapman '90 </span></span>G Clarke Chapman, chair of the department of religion and philosophy at Moravian College, Facing the Nuclear Hersey, 1990, http://www.colorado.edu/ReligiousStudies/chernus/4820-ColdWarCulture/Readings/FacingTheNuclearHeresy.pdf
It is ironic that such religiosity is devoted to <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the Bomb.</span></span> ...technique and science in ways that preclude their human use."54 

The alternative is to reject nuclearism in favor of a theology of peace.
Constructing transcendent opposition to basic assumptions and practices of nuclearism creates space for debate to produce new forms of social relations that aren't based in violence and repression.
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Austin '85 </span></span>Dorothy Austin, "Reinventing Ourselves," Political Psychology, Vol. 6, No. 2, June 1985
Recently, the Catholic Church has figured... <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">political terms and in mythological and ideological terms as well. </span></span>

===Kappeler=== 
**A. The affirmative frames the debate based one the question: ‘what should the government do.’ This type of epistemology is simply organized irresponsibility, where we abdicate our responsibility to act to the state, and become not just impotent spectators in politics, but active participants in the violence**
<span class="CitesChar">Kappeler 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, Faculty of English at Cambridge. The will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995 p10-11) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 13.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Yet our insight **__that indeed we ...__** **__and the values of war and violence__**.</span></span>

**B. Surrendering ourselves to the state and abdicating personal responsibility makes extinction inevitable**
**Beres 94** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Louis Rene, Professor of International Law in the Department of Political Science at Purdue University, Spring,, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, Lexis)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 13.5pt;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">By surrendering ourselves to States</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> __**...**__ **__the most indelible badge of modern humankind__**</span></span>


**Thus Tyler and I present this Alternative: Reject the Affirmative and the blaming mentality they characterize violence with; instead re-conceive violence as the matter of individual choice it truly is. Politicize that thinking.**

**This is the only way to solve violence**
<span class="CitesChar">Kappeler 95</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Susanne, Associate Professor at Al-Akhawayn University, Faculty of English at Cambridge. The will to Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, 1995 p4-5) </span>
<span style="margin-left: 13.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A **__politics aiming at a change ...__** violence and for a non-violence society.</span></span>