<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[toc]]
</span>








<span style="color: black; display: block;">Email me at [[mailto:apeter657@gmail.com|apeter657@gmail.com]] for any addditional cite request</span>
=Affirmative= 

===MBA - New Plan Text=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**As part of the withdrawal of troops from Iraq, the United States federal government should withdraw all spent and unspent depleted uranium munitions in Iraq by cleaning and decontaminating areas contaminated by depleted uranium in Iraq.**</span>


===<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Blake - Depleted Uranium</span>=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**We propose the following:**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its depleted uranium in Iraq.**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CONTENTION ONE IS GENOCIDE </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">WE’LL ISOLATE TWO INTERNALS. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">FIRST IS DISEASE – </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">IRAQI CIVILIANS ARE SUFFERING FROM INCREASE CANCER RATES AND BIRTH DEFECTS AS AN EFFECT OF DEPLETED URANIUM. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">GHAZI 2k10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – monitors and translated Arab media for New America Media (Jalal. “Cancer – The Deadly Legacy of the Invasion of Iraq.” March 22. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://news.newamericamedia.org/news/view_article.html?article_id=80e260b3839daf2084fdeb0965ad31ab)</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Forget about oil, occupation, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">…e half-life of 4.5 billion years.</span></span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">DEPLETED URANIUM MUNITIONS SPREADS THROUGH RADIOACTIVE PARTICLES. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">ICBUW 2k7</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – International Coalition to Ban Uranium Weapons (“Uranium Weapons Briefing.” </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cadu.org.uk/resources/Introduction%20to%20Uranium%20Weapons.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The <span style="background: aqua;">DU</span> oxide <span style="background: aqua;">dust </span>…. implicated in a rise in birth defects from areas adjacent to the main Gulf War battlefields.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">LEADS TO DEATH BY CANCER. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">S. SHAWKY 2k2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – Department of Community Medicine and Primary Health Care, College of Medicine Allied Health Sciences. (S. Shawky. “Depleted uranium: an overview of its properties and health effects.” </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://www.emro.who.int/Publications/EMHJ/0802_3/depleted.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The human body has no way of protecting …. effect is not apparent immediately.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">IRAQ WILL BE A WASTELAND FOREVER WITHOUT CLEANUP. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Bult-Ito 2k6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – associate professor of biology @ University of Alaska Fairbanks and member of the Fairbanks Coalition for Peace and Justice (Abel. “America’s greatest crime is radioactive genocide.” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_allen_l__071012_america_s_greatest_c.htm]]</span>)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Iraqi and visiting doctors, and a number of news reports, have __….__ </span>
<span style="color: #008080;">on depleted uranium use </span>.



<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">WE OUTWEIGH ON MAGNITUDE – DEPLETED URANIUM IS CAUSING GLOBAL DISEASE EPIDEMICS. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">MORET 2k6</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – former scientific laboratory employee, expert of depleted uranium (Leuren. “Weapons Used, Targets Hit, Bombing Intensity In Lebanon By the Israeli Military.” August 26. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://boston.indymedia.org/newswire/display_any/187093/]]</span>)</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">We are now in a global diabetes epidemic</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> ….<span style="background: aqua;">humans is an increasing problem now</span>, with only 15% of sperm in men globally which is normal. It used to be 80% was normal.</span></span>



<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THE IMPACT IS GLOBAL EXTINCTION - DU DESTORYS ALL PLANETARY LIFE. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">LENDMAN 2k6 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">frequent contributor to Global Research, Harvard BA in 1956 and a Wharton MBA in 1960, six years as a marketing research analyst, writes on vital world and national topics, including war and peace, American imperialism, corporate dominance, political persecutions, and a range of other social, economic and political issues.)(The Centre for Research on Globalisation (CRG) is an independent research and media organization based in Montreal. The CRG is a registered non profit organization in the province of Quebec, Canada. In addition to the Global Research website, the Centre is involved in book publishing, support to humanitarian projects as well as educational outreach activities including the organization of public conferences and lectures. The Centre also acts as a think tank on crucial economic and geopolitical issues (Stephen. http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=1754)</span></span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Forget about Avian (bird) </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">…. the planet and threaten all future life on it. To the ones mentioned above and the polluted air, water</span></span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">SECOND IS RESPONSIBILITY – </span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">US NEOCOLONIST ACTIONS IN FALLUJAH WAS INVISIBLE GENOCIDE OF THE IRAQI PEOPLE. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">KOEHLER 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – award-winning, Chicago-based journalist and editor at Tribune Media Services and nationally syndicated writer (Robert. “Silent Genocide.” March 25. http://www.ratical.org/radiation/DU/SilentGenocide.html)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">After the Americans destroyed our village and killed many of us, …. that DU is the cause, or a factor, in the mystery illnesses and birth defects emanating from the war zones, can see the logic in halting its use now.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Global terrorism? Listen to Jooma Khan. Then look in the mirror.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THE US IS KEY – OTHER COUNTRIES WON’T APPLY UNILATERAL POLICIES BECAUSE OF SELF-INTERESTS. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">SHAH 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – practices Law in Wisconsin, BA of Arts, Association – International Movement for a Just World (Nikhil. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">“Depleted Uranium and International Law.” August 23. http://www.countercurrents.org/du-shah231004.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">While the current situation surrounding DU use …..<span style="background: aqua;"> for its consequences</span>.[197]</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**THE US IS SEVERELY DOWNPLAYING THE EFFECTS OF DEPLETED URANIUM BY DENYING RELIABLE SCIENTIFIC STUDIES AND SKEWING REPORTS.** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**NIKHIL 2k4** – practices law in Wisconsin, BA of Arts, Association – International Movement for a Just World, Countcurrents.org (Shah. October 23. <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.countercurrents.org/du-shah231004.htm)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Depleted Uranium is a waste ….. acknowledge its dangers despite numerous reports to the contrary.[55]</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">AND IGNORE THEIR INDITES – THEY FAILED TO BE PEER REVIEWED AND ARE OUT OF DATE. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Bubsy 2k10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Chris: PhD for Electro-Chemistry, Doctorate in chemical physics, Radiologist, National Speaker for Science and Technology on Radiation. “The Health Effects of Exposure to Uranium and Uranium Weapons Fallout.” August 31, 2010 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nonuclear.se/files/ECRRuranium2012no2.pdf]]</span>)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The element uranium is the basis of and parent of almost all releases ….. agencies like WHO) employed the ICRP model to show that the doses were too low.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**PREFER OUR EVIDENCE – WE HAVE VISUAL AND EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE.** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Flounders 2k3** (Sara Flounders is co-director of the International Action Center and coordinator of the DU Education Project. The IAC initiated the call for an international ban on DU weapons, helped organize an effort to bring the issue of DU to the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva, helped measure radiation levels in Iraq before the 2003 war and expose U.S. use of DU use in Kosovo and Afghanistan. “Iraqi cities ‘hot’ with depleted uranium” </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://www.join-snafu.org/enlisted/DUflounders.htm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Has U.S. use of depleted-uranium weapons turned Iraq into a radioactive danger area for both Iraqis and occupation troops_ This question has already had serious ….. round exposes a person to about 200 rems per hour, or twice the annual radiation exposure limit.</span>


<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">ASSUMING RESPONSIBILITY AND HELPING OTHERS IS KEY TO PREVENT FUTURE GENOCIDES. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">STAUB 89</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - Professor of Psychology @ the Trauma, Research, Education, and Training Institute @ University of Massachusetts (Ervin Staub. “The Roots of Evil.” The Roots of Evil, p. 86-88, p. 277)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Starting with common ….<span style="background: aqua;"> caring and helpful</span>. One of our goals must be to create societies in which there is the widest possible participation in doing for others.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">ANY MOVEMENT WILL BE CO-OPTED WITHOUT THE STATE. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tabstops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">ARONOWICZ 2k6 – </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Professor Judaism Franklin and Marshall College (Annette. “Levinas and Politics.” Summer. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tabstops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt;">Aronowicz, prof Judaism Franklin and Marshall, 2006 </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">http://66.102.1.104/scholar?q=cache:5L5lnjhcUSgJ:scholar.google.com/+levinas%2Bholocaust%2Bpolitics&hl=en) </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tabstops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt;">[[#_GoBack]] </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">What remains after so much bloodshed and tears shed in the ….<span style="background: yellow;"> not making the innocent suffer</span> (Levinas 1990:110).</span>

</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**CURRENT UTILITARIAN POLITICS MAKES WAR AND VIOLENCE INEVITABLE – THE ONLY ESCAPE IS THROUGH ETHICS.** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">**XIANGCHEN 2k8**</span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;"> – Professor of Philosophy @ Fudan (Sun. “Emmanuel Levinas and the Critique of Modern Political Philosophy.” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/cgi-bin/fulltext/121573478/HTMLSTART?CRETRY=1&SRETRY=0)</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">According to Hobbes's logic, there is initially a ……__<span style="background: yellow; text-underline: thick; textunderline: thick;"> come to superpose itself upon the ontology of war</span>__<span style="background: yellow;">.3</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**THE PLAN FULFILLS OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT BY CREATING MOMENTUM FOR FUTURE BANS ON DEPLETED URANIUM.**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Hirsh 2k2** – Professor of Political Science @ Virginia Commonwealth University (Herbert. “Anti-Genocide.” .32-33 and 34-36)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Marginal change is …. the problem of political consciousness.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">WE HAVE AN ETHICAL OBLIGATION – OUR DISCOURSE ABOUT DEPLETED URANIUM CREATES A PRECEDENT TO EXPOSE GOVERNMENTAL SECRECY IN THEIR USE OF FANTASTICAL IMAGERY AND IMMEDIATE DEATH COUNTS. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">NIXON 2k5</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> – Rachel Carson Professor of English @ University of Wishconsin Madison (Rob. Chronicle of Higher Education. Vol. 41. Issue 24. February 18.http://irgg.research.yale.edu/documents/ToolsofWar.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">WHAT is a war casualty? The answer ….**, off-camera casualties.**</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">GENOCIDE INDEPENDENTLY RISKS DESTRUCTION ON A GLOBAL LEVEL – ALLOWS FUTURE GENOCIDE CAUSES EXTINCTION. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CAMPBELL 2k1</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **-** Professor Of Political Science And International Relations @ University of Delaware </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Kenneth J. “Assistant Genocide and the Global Village.” p. 15-16. Lexis)</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Regardless of where or on how </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">….. a-priori obligation to reject it on-face.</span></span>



<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">THE PLAN SOLVES – THERE ARE CLEAN UP MECHANISMS ARE AVAILABLE AND EFFECTIVE. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">COGHLAN 2k10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Andy. “Fungi lock depleted uranium out of harm’s way.” NewScientist. May 8. </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn13829-fungi-lock-depleted-uranium-out-of-harms-way.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Humble <span style="background: aqua;">fungi</span> found in most back gardens …... "You could literally pick them from your own back garden."</span>



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**VOTING ON MINUTE RISK IMPACTS IMPOSES THE TYRANNY OF SURVIVAL.** </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">**CALLAHAN 73 –** Co Founder and Former Director of Hastings Institute (Daniel. “The Tyranny of Survival.” <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">p 91-93)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The value of survival could not be so readily abused were it not for its evocative power. But abused it has ……**<span style="background: yellow;"> be made to ensure that survival.</span>** It would be the Pyrrhic victory to end all Pyrrhic victories. Yet it would be the defeat of all defeats if, because human beings could not properly manage their need to survive, they succeeded in not doing so.</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">CRISIS-DRIVEN APPROACH TO WAR FOCUSED ON TIMEFRAME AND RISK ASSESSMENT OBSCURES OMNIPRESENCE OF MILITARISM AND ROOT OF VIOLENCE. </span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Cuomo 96 - </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies, and Director of the Institute for Women's Studies at the University of Georgia (Chris J. “War Is Not Just an Event: Reflections on the Significance of Everyday Violence”, Published in Hypatia 11.4 nb, pp. 31-48)</span></span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**__<span style="background: yellow; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Ethical approaches that </span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">….. agents of the state. </span>__**</span>



===Glenbrooks - Depleted Uranium=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">We propose the following:</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">The United States federal government should substantially reduce its depleted uranium in Iraq.</span>**</span>


<span style="color: black;">__<span style="color: windowtext; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">CONTENTION ONE IS GENOCIDE </span>**</span>__</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">WE’LL ISOLATE TWO INTERNALS.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">FIRST IS DISEASE – </span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 9pt;">IRAQI CIVILIANS ARE SUFFERING FROM INCREASE CANCER RATES AND BIRTH DEFECTS AS AN EFFECT OF DEPLETED URANIUM. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 9pt;">GHAZI 2k10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 9pt;"> – monitors and translated Arab media for New America Media (Jalal. “Cancer – The Deadly Legacy of the Invasion of Iraq.” March 22. </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://news.newamericamedia.org/news/view_article.html?article_id=80e260b3839daf2084fdeb0965ad31ab)</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Forget about oil, occupation, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">….</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 6pt;"> air in large areas of Iraq, including Baghdad, are contaminated with depleted uranium that has a radioactive half-life of 4.5 billion years.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">DEPLETED URANIUM MUNITIONS SPREADS THROUGH RADIOACTIVE PARTICLES. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">ICBUW 2k7</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – International Coalition to Ban Uranium Weapons (“Uranium Weapons Briefing.”</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.cadu.org.uk/resources/Introduction%20to%20Uranium%20Weapons.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">The <span style="background: aqua;">DU</span> oxide <span style="background: aqua;">dust produced</span>…</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 6pt;"> Gulf War battlefields.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">LEADS TO DEATH BY CANCER. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">S. SHAWKY 2k2</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;"> – Department of Community Medicine and Primary Health Care, College of Medicine Allied Health Sciences. (S. Shawky. “Depleted uranium: an overview of its properties and health effects.”</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://www.emro.who.int/Publications/EMHJ/0802_3/depleted.htm) </span>
<span style="color: black;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">The human body …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 6pt;"> for a cancer caused by contaminated air, food or water to grow, so the effect is not apparent immediately. </span></span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">IRAQ WILL BE A WASTELAND FOREVER WITHOUT CLEANUP. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Bult-Ito 2k6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – associate professor of biology @ University of Alaska Fairbanks and member of the Fairbanks Coalition for Peace and Justice (Abel. “America’s greatest crime is radioactive genocide.” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_allen_l__071012_america_s_greatest_c.htm]]</span>)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 6pt;">Iraqi and visiting doctors, and a </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">… </span>__**</span>
<span style="color: black;"><span style="color: #008080;">need a worldwide ban on depleted uranium use</span>**<span style="color: #008080; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"><span class="msoIns">.</span> </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">WE OUTWEIGH ON MAGNITUDE – DEPLETED URANIUM IS CAUSING GLOBAL DISEASE EPIDEMICS. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">MORET 2k6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – former scientific laboratory employee, expert of depleted uranium (Leuren. “Weapons Used, Targets Hit, Bombing Intensity In Lebanon By the Israeli Military.” August 26.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://boston.indymedia.org/newswire/display_any/187093/]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">We are </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 5pt;">. It used to be 80% was normal.</span></span>



<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">SECOND IS RESPONSIBILITY – </span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">US NEOCOLONIST ACTIONS IN FALLUJAH WAS INVISIBLE GENOCIDE OF THE IRAQI PEOPLE. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">KOEHLER 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – award-winning, Chicago-based journalist and editor at Tribune Media Services and nationally syndicated writer (Robert. “Silent Genocide.” March 25. http://www.ratical.org/radiation/DU/SilentGenocide.html)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">After the Americans destroyed … look in the mirror.</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">THE US IS KEY – OTHER COUNTRIES WON’T APPLY UNILATERAL POLICIES BECAUSE OF SELF-INTERESTS. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">SHAH 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – practices Law in Wisconsin, BA of Arts, Association – International Movement for a Just World (Nikhil.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">“Depleted Uranium and International Law.” August 23. http://www.countercurrents.org/du-shah231004.htm)</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 4pt;">While the current situation surrounding DU use …..</span><span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> liability for its consequences</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">.[197]</span></span>



<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">THE US IS SEVERELY DOWNPLAYING THE EFFECTS OF DEPLETED URANIUM BY DENYING RELIABLE SCIENTIFIC STUDIES AND SKEWING REPORTS. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">NIKHIL 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – practices law in Wisconsin, BA of Arts, Association – International Movement for a Just World, Countcurrents.org (Shah. October 23. http://www.countercurrents.org/du-shah231004.htm)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Depleted Uranium is a … to the contrary.[55]</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">AND IGNORE THEIR INDITES – THEY FAILED TO BE PEER REVIEWED AND ARE OUT OF DATE. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Bubsy 2k10** (Chris: PhD for Electro-Chemistry, Doctorate in chemical physics, Radiologist, National Speaker for Science and Technology on Radiation. “The Health Effects of Exposure to Uranium and Uranium Weapons Fallout.” August 31, 2010 <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://nonuclear.se/files/ECRRuranium2012no2.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 4pt;">The element …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 5pt;"> the doses were too low.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">ASSUMING RESPONSIBILITY AND HELPING OTHERS IS KEY TO PREVENT FUTURE GENOCIDES. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">STAUB 89</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> - Professor of Psychology @ the Trauma, Research, Education, and Training Institute @ University of Massachusetts (Ervin Staub. “The Roots of Evil.” The Roots of Evil, p. 86-88, p. 277)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Starting with …<span style="background: aqua;"> more caring and helpful</span>. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 4pt;">One of our goals must be to create societies in which there is the widest possible participation in doing for others.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">WITHOUT THE STATE ACCEPTING RESPONSIBILITY TO HELP OTHERS – VIOLENCE WILL ALWAYS BE INEVITABLE </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tabstops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">**ARONOWICZ 2k6 –** </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-weight: normal;">Professor Judaism Franklin and Marshall College (Annette. “Levinas and Politics.” Summer.</span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tabstops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-weight: normal;">Aronowicz, prof Judaism Franklin and Marshall, 2006 </span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://66.102.1.104/scholar?q=cache:5L5lnjhcUSgJ:scholar.google.com/+levinas%2Bholocaust%2Bpolitics&hl=en) </span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tabstops: 28.0pt 56.0pt 84.0pt 112.0pt 140.0pt 168.0pt 196.0pt 224.0pt 3.5in 280.0pt 308.0pt 336.0pt;">[[#_GoBack]] </span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 4pt;">What remains after so much bloodshed and …</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: yellow; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__of not making the innocent suffer__</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> (Levinas 1990:110). </span></span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">OUR INFINITE RESPONSIBILITY TO THE OTHER MUST BE WEIGHED FIRST – LEADS TO DEHUMANIZATION. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">JORDAAN 2k6</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – Researcher in the Department of Political Science @ University of Stellenborsh (Eduard. “Affinities of Socio-political Thought of Rorty and Levinas,” http://psc.sagepub.com/content/32/2/193.full.pdf)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">In both Rorty and Levinas …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 5pt;">impossibility of abandoning the other.</span></span>


<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">THE PLAN FULFILLS OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT BY CREATING MOMENTUM FOR FUTURE BANS ON DEPLETED URANIUM.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Hirsh 2k2** – Professor of Political Science @ Virginia Commonwealth University (Herbert. “Anti-Genocide.” .32-33 and 34-36)</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Marginal change is important </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 6pt;">… addressing the problem of political consciousness</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">.</span></span>


<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">WE HAVE AN ETHICAL OBLIGATION – OUR DISCOURSE ABOUT DEPLETED URANIUM CREATES A PRECEDENT TO EXPOSE GOVERNMENTAL SECRECY IN THEIR USE OF FANTASTICAL IMAGERY AND IMMEDIATE DEATH COUNTS.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**NIXON 2k5** – Rachel Carson Professor of English @ University of Wishconsin Madison (Rob. Chronicle of Higher Education. Vol. 41. Issue 24. February 18.http://irgg.research.yale.edu/documents/ToolsofWar.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 5pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__WHAT is a war casualty? The answer ….__</span></span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;">inflict lingering, off-camera casualties.</span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial Narrow; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**GENOCIDE INDEPENDENTLY RISKS DESTRUCTION ON A GLOBAL LEVEL – ALLOWS FUTURE GENOCIDE CAUSES EXTINCTION.**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">**CAMPBELL 2k1** **-** </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Professor Of Political Science And International Relations @ University of Delaware</span> </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Kenneth J. “Assistant Genocide and the Global Village.” p. 15-16. Lexis)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial Narrow; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua;">Regardless of where or </span>…<span style="color: windowtext;"> obligation to reject it on-face.</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; page-break-after: avoid;">**VOTING ON MINUTE RISK IMPACTS IMPOSES THE TYRANNY OF SURVIVAL.** </span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-autospace: ideograph-numeric;">**CALLAHAN 73 –** Co Founder and Former Director of Hastings Institute (Daniel. “The Tyranny of Survival.” <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">p 91-93) </span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block;"><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">The value of survival …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 4pt;"> succeeded in not doing so.</span>



__**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">CONTENTION TWO IS THE ENVIRONMENT </span>**__</span><span style="line-height: 115%; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">THE ECOSYSTEM IS FRAGILE FROM THE EFFECTS OF DU. </span>**</span></span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">BENNIS AND LEAVER 2k5</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – Foreign Policy in Focus, a progressive multi-issue think tank that links ideas to </span></span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Arial Narrow; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">action for peace, justice and the environment. Founded in 1963, the Institute serves as a place for creative thinkers and bold activists to study the nation’s and the world’s problems and craft alternatives. Combining research, advocacy, education, and organizing, IPS works across disciplines, bringing together powerful, creative minds from varied of backgrounds to provide information, analysis, and action for social change (Phyliss Bennis and Erik Leaver. “The Mounting Costs of War and the Case for Bringing Home the Troops.” August 31.</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 4pt;">The Pentagon estimates that U.S. …</span>**<span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 12pt;">environment war</span>****<span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 11pt;"> is leaving behind</span>**<span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">DEPLETED URANIUM UNIQUELY DESTORYS THE ENVIRONMENT TWO WAYS – </span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">A SUBPOINT IS THROUGH RADIOACTIVE CONTAMINATION. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">AL-AZZAWI 2k8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – Associate Professor @ Mamoun University for Science and Technology (Dr. Souad N. “Crimes of the Century: Occupation & Contaminating Iraq with Depleted Uranium.” June 15. </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">http://www.brusselstribunal.org/pdf/DU-Azzawi2.pdf)</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">__American__</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> and British …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 4pt;"> College of Baghdad University [41].</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">B SUBPOINT IS BY POLLUTING SOIL AND WATER SUPPLY. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">MTP 2k3</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> – Military Toxic Project (“Depleted Uranium Munitions: Nuclear Waste as a Weapon.” June.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://www.kahea.org/lcr/pdf/Depleted_Uranium_Fact_Sheet.pdf )</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span class="underline"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">Immediate battlefield exposures ….contaminated soil.</span> </span>__</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**THE IMPACT IS GLOBAL EXTINCTION - DU DESTORYS ALL PLANETARY LIFE.**</span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**LENDMAN 2k6 –** </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">frequent contributor to Global Research</span></span>__<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">, </span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">Harvard BA in 1956 and a Wharton MBA in 1960, six years as a marketing research analyst, writes on vital world and national topics, including war and peace, American imperialism, corporate dominance, political persecutions, and a range of other social, economic and political issues.)(The Centre for Research on Globalisation (CRG) is an independent research and media organization based in Montreal. The CRG is a registered non profit organization in the province of Quebec, Canada. In addition to the Global Research website, the Centre is involved in book publishing, support to humanitarian projects as well as educational outreach activities including the organization of public conferences and lectures. The Centre also acts as a think tank on crucial economic and geopolitical issues (Stephen. http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=1754)</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 11pt;">Forget about Avian (bird) flu</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 11pt;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span style="background: aqua; font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">threat of it </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">….</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 4pt;"> and threaten all future life on it. To the ones mentioned above and the polluted air, water and //**soil**//.</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">THE PLAN SOLVES – THERE ARE CLEAN UP MECHANISMS ARE AVAILABLE AND EFFECTIVE. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">COGHLAN 2k10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';"> (Andy. “Fungi lock depleted uranium out of harm’s way.” NewScientist. May 8.</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn13829-fungi-lock-depleted-uranium-out-of-harms-way.html</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Humble <span style="background: aqua;">fungi</span> found in …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 6pt;"> your own back garden."</span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial Narrow;">AND LABORATORIES HAVE RESEARCHED SEVERAL EFFECTIVE METHODS TO REDUCE DEPLETED URANIUM. </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**BUSBY 2k8** – PhD for Electro-Chemistry, Doctorate in Chemical Physics, Radiologist, National Speaker for Science and Technology on Radiation (Chris. “Uranium Weapons: Why all the Fuss?” September 3.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:KRMJhEKdDn4J:scholar.google.com/+%22depleted+uranium%22+environmental+harm&hl=en&as_sdt=400000&as_ylo=2009]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">Since <span style="background: aqua;">uranium weapons </span>…</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 4pt;"> same results; if they did not there was a reanalysis.</span></span>


=Negative= 

===﻿Glenbrooks Strategies=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Rd 1 vs. Jones College Prep GV** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff - COIN</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC – Advantage CP, Security K, Philippines COIN DA, Dip Cap, Case Turns</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR - Case turns and Advantage CP</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">CP Text: THE UNITED STES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD OFFSET THE AMOUNT OF SOLDIERS STATIONED IN AFGHANISTAN FROM SHORT-RANGE AIR DEFENSE. THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANCIALLY INCREASE DEVELOPMENTAL AID TO AFGHANISTAN AND REQUIRE AUDITS ON THE USE OF THIS AID. THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD ALLOCATE A PORTION OF THIS AID TO INCREASE ELECTRICITY AVAILABILITY IN KABUL, SECURE THE KANDAHAR-TO-KABUL ROAD, FINISH BUILDING THE KAJAKI DAM, INCREASE TEACHER WAGES AND QUALITY IN AFGHANISTAN, AND IMPROVE INFRASTRUCTURE. THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD FREEZE THE CURRENT WITHDRAWAL DATE IN AFGHANISTAN. THE UNITED STATES SHOULD AFFIRM A PUBLIC COMMITMENT TO POLITICAL STABILITY IN AFGHANISTAN AND STATE THAT IT HAS NO INTENTION OF WITHDRAWING. THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD PRESS KABUL TO ORGANIZE A SECOND CONSTIUTIONAL CONVENTION.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Rd 4 vs. Ashland MM </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff - Levinas Kuwait</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC – ASPEC, T Troops, Advantage CP, Dip Cap, Util, Ethics Turns</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR - CP and Dip Cap</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">CP Text: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD AMEND THE TRAFFICKING VICTIMS PROTECTION ACT AS PER OUR DARYMPLE EVIDENCE.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD REDUCE ITS DEPLETED URANIUM IN IRAQ.</span>

Rd 5 vs. HF RC
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff - War on Terror</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC – Afghanistan Word PIC, Kurdistan PIC, Realignment DA, Realism Good/Security Good</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR - Realignment DA and Realism Good</span>

Rd 7 vs. Westside FE
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff – TNW</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC – T Troops, Advantage CP (De-Alert and end the economic embargo on Iran), Israeli Relations DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR - T Troops</span>


===Blake Strategies=== 



<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Rd 1 vs. Millard South </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff - Spanos</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR Framework</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Rd 2 Cr Wash </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff – South Korea Security</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC – Economic Engagement CP, ROK Investment DA, Spanos K, Case (Realignment Turn, Realism, Security Inevitable)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR – ROK Investment DA and Case</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Rd 6 Whitney Young DM </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff – Japan Okinawa</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC – Security K, Advantage CP, Israeli DA, Case (Biodiversity Impact Turns, Internal link turns on Internal Politics, Defense on Militarism)</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR – Case</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">CP Text: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD PRESS TOKYO TO FULLY IMPLEMENT THE GUAM AGREEMENT ON U.S. FORCE REALIGNMENT, AGREE TO A MINOR RECONFIGURATION OF THE CAMP SCHWAB RUNWAY LOCATION, ACCEPT STRICTER REGULATIONS ON NOISE ABATEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION, AND REQUEST THE DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE OF JAPAN TO DEFINE ITS VISION OF EQUAL ALLIANCE AND JAPAN’S REGIONAL AND GLOBAL SECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Rd 7 New Trier </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Aff – Japan BMD</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">1NC – T Troops, Advantage CP, Israeli DA, case defense</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NR – CP, DA</span>**

**<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">CP Text: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, JAPAN, AND CHINA SHOULD HOLD A STRATEGIC DIALOGUE OVER MISSILE DEFENSE. </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AND CHINA SHOULD DE-ALERT THEIR GLOBAL NUCLEAR STOCKPILES AND ENFORCE COOPERATION EFFORTS AS PER OUR KARAS EVIDENCE.</span></span></span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">2NC Amendment to the CP to solve Russia add-on:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The United States federal government should offer Russia an arms control nonproliferation agenda as per our Cohen evidence.</span>**

The CP avoids our withdrawal turns while upholding US/Russia relations. 
Cohen 2k9** – PhD Senior <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation (Ariel. “Dangerous Trajectories: Obama's Approach to Arms Control Misreads Russian Nuclear Strategy.” November 9.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2009/11/dangerous-trajectories-obamas-approach-to-arms-control-misreads-russian-nuclear-strategy]] Ann Peter)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="background: aqua; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Russia opposes the... continue to spearhead the multilateral cooperative effort to address the threat of nuclear-armed terrorism</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">. </span></span>

===MBA Strategies=== 

Rd 1 vs. Ft. Lauderdale
Aff - COIN
1NC - Advantage CP, Drones DA, Security K, case turns
2NR - CP/Case

Rd 4 vs. Edmond North
Aff - withdraw military presence from Incerlik
1NC - Withdraw from Iraq and Afghainstan/keep troops in Turkey CP, Israel Relations DA, Spanos K, Anti-Base Movement CP/Redeployment NB, Case
2NR - Anti-Base Movement CP, Internal Net Benefit, Case

Rd 5 vs. Bronx 
Aff - COIN
See Rd 1
*Borders K not Security K