[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative 1== 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">My advocacy is a literary analysis of nuclear language.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">P1: The Framework</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Ought<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">--></span>moral obligation</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The resolution is a moral statement that needs to be understood so our project is to understand what morality means.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">We understand concepts through language. Roland Bleiker, “Popular dissent, human agency, and global politics.” Cambridge University Press (2000), 135. “It is within…acquired over time.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The standard is rejecting language that makes understanding morality impossible.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">P2: The Problem</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">1.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The first problem is that nuclear language isn’t objective to fully understand the effects of nuclear weapons. Carol Cohn, “Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals.” //Signs.// University of Chicago Press (1987), 691. “ ‘Clean bombs’ are…targets show factories.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Cohn 2, “Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals.” //Signs.// University of Chicago Press (1987), 704. “A more subtle…of nuclear war”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">[[http://people.reed.edu/%7Eahm/Courses/Stan-PS-314-2009-Q1_PNP/Syllabus/EReadings/Cohn1987Sex-and-Death.pdf|http://people.reed.edu/~ahm/Courses/Stan-PS-314-2009-Q1_PNP/Syllabus/EReadings/Cohn1987Sex-and-Death.pdf]]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Thus the metaphors distort the language and hinder understanding of morality.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">2. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The second problem is that it explores worlds of thought.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Cohn 3, “Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals.” //Signs.// University of Chicago Press (1987), 708. “I found, however…be taken seriously.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Morality requires moral contention, so when people’s thoughts are excluded we cannot understand it.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">3.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The third problem is that it makes the subject the weapon rather than the human being.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Cohn 4, “Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals.” //Signs.// University of Chicago Press (1987), 711-712. “The fact that…remains hermetically sealed.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Cohn 5, “Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals.” //Signs.// University of Chicago Press (1987), 712. “Finally, the third…become more incomprehensible.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Morality is the distinction between right and wrong conduct of human beings. A language that eliminates human considerations, thus makes understanding morality impossible.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">P3: The Decision Calculus</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The language derives from the possession. Cohn 6, “Sex and Death in the Rational World of Defense Intellectuals.” //Signs.// University of Chicago Press (1987), 706-707. “Finally, then, I…threats to it.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Post-Fiat Version:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">As long as we are still beholden to them, nuclear weapons will control and define our understanding of morality. Thus, we must dispossess them to move towards understanding morality.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Pre-Fiat Version:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The only way to liberate discourse is to reconceptualize our interpretation of morality. Signing the ballot for the affirmative gives access to then debating what actions states ought to take.</span>


==Affirmative 2== 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Traditional AC</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Ought<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">--></span>moral obligation</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The value is morality. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The criterion is preventing harm to innocent people. Morality is a guide for human action. In order to be consistent with morality, actions must not harm those who are not morally culpable.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Contention 1: Accidents</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Possession makes accidents more probably. Rajaraman, “Possession and Deployment of Nuclear Weapons in South Asia: An Assessment of Some Risks.” //Economic and Political Weekly// (2002), 2459-2466. “Yet, from 1977…a nuclear warhead.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/pss/4412275]]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Rajaraman 2, “Possession and Deployment of Nuclear Weapons in South Asia: An Assessment of Some Risks.” //Economic and Political Weekly// (2002). “Fortunately in each…sensible decision-making.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Rajaraman 3, “Possession and Deployment of Nuclear Weapons in South Asia: An Assessment of Some Risks.” //Economic and Political Weekly// (2002). “An accidental nuclear…a nuclear war.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The threat of nuclear war is a risk to innocent lives.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Contention 2: Radiation</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Possession leads to risks of radiation in the environment. Alyn Ware, “Shared Memory Vital to Preventing Nuclear Holocaust.” //<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">Nzherald.co.nz. </span>//<span style="text-transform: uppercase;">“</span>Radiation comes with…number 13 million.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Thus, surrounding innocent civilians are harmed by nuclear testing.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Contention 3: War</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The possession of nukes increases the likelihood of war. Daniel Geller, “Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation.” The Journal of Conflict and Resolution (1990), 291-310. “This analysis has…their nuclear rivals.”</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">War harms innocent civilians, especially in instances of nuclear strikes because the scope of a nuclear attack cannot be specific. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">These harms are inherent to the possession of nuclear weapons, and therefore cannot be avoided in the negative world.</span>

==Affirmative 3== 
Inviolability AC
Ought- M.O.
Moral-relating to right and wrong.
Aff burden is to prove a moral prohibition upon the possession of nukes.
V- Morality
Rationality means that people have the ability to reflect upon their actions. Christine Korsgaard [Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Philosophy Director of Graduate Studies] __The Sources of Normativity__ Lecture 3 - “The Authority of Reflection.” , June 28, 1996. [[http://dash.harvard.edu/bitstream/handle/1/3710397/Korsgaard_SourcesNormativity.pdf]], 79.
Our intrinsic value derives from rational decision-making. Thomas E. Hill, Jr. “Kantian Constructivism in Ethics.” //Ethics//, Vol. 99, No. 4 (Jul., 1989), pp. 767 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|www.jstor.org]]</span>. “Autonomy is a controversial…end in itself.”
Harm to others represents a contradiction of reason. Gregory S. Kavka. Moral Paradoxes of Nuclear Weapons (New York: Press Syndicate of the University of Cambridge, 1987) p. 23 www.books.google.com “Let us return…entails having it).”
Individuals have the autonomy to control their own actions.
Quinn, Warren S., [Professor of Philosophy at UCLA, 1968-91] “Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing,” //Killing and Letting Die//, 2nd. Ed. (ed. Norcross, A. and Steinbock, B.) New York: Fordham University Press, 1994. (Originally published in //Philosophical Review// 98, no. 3 (July 1989)). pp. 308, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|www.jstor.org]]</span>
"An object does not belong...in the collective whole."
The standard is preserving the inviolability of persons.
Consequentialism denies humans their intrinsic worth. Germain Grisez and Russell Shaw, [Flynn Professor of Christian Ethics at Mount Saint Mary’s College, and Columnist for Catholic Herald] //Absolutism and its Consequentialist Critics//, ed. Joram Graf Haber, pub 1994, pp. 26. "One arrives at...measurement, weighing, and balancing."
By not evaluating intent, the ends of any action will eventually deteriorate. Immanuel Kant and Lara Denis. __The Groundwork of the Meta Physics of Morals__. (1785) Google Books, pp. 55. "Intelligence, wit, judgment...been without it."
Contention 1: Possession diminishes the worth of humans.
The ultimate goal of nuclear weapons is deterrence. Committee on International Security and Arms Control and National Academy of Sciences. __The Future of U.S. Nuclear Weapons Policy__ June 13, 1997. Google Books, pp. 4. "In all likelihood...as the result."

Subpoint A is hostage holding
Steven Lee [chairman of the philosophy department at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. “The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences,”//Ethics//, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 553 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|http://www.jstor.org]]</span>. “It can be found…of hostage holding.”

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---H]]Hostage holding is immoral because it violates the autonomy of innocents. Steven Lee [chairman of the philosophy department at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. “The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences,”//Ethics//, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence(Apr., 1985), pp. 554 <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.jstor.org/|http://www.jstor.org]]</span> “Second, nuclear deterrence… risk of harm.”

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---S]]Subpoint B is retaliation.
[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---A]]A countries’ acceptance to retaliate and kill millions of innocents is still inherently immoral and institutionalizes the violation of rights. Robert P. Churchill [Associate professor of philosophy at George Washington University] “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue.” Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 51 jSTOR “Yet even if…for human survival.”

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---E]]Even if they strive towards good ends, the intent is still evil. Robert P. Churchill [Associate professor of philosophy at George Washington University] “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue.” Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 52 jSTOR “Yet it might…to be consumed”
Contention 2: Nuclear testing violates the intrinsic worth of individuals.
Nuclear testing has been happening for 60 years.
//War and Public Health// By: Victor Sidel [Distinguished University Professor of Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine] , Barry Levy. Dec. 14, 2007 Google Books, pp. 158-159.

[[#September-October-Affirmative-AFF_2:---T]]Testing results violates the rights off innocents. //War and Public Health// By: Victor Sidel [Distinguished University Professor of Social Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine] , Barry Levy. Dec. 14, 2007. Google Books, pp. 160 “The primary human… among future generations.”
==Negative 1== 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Ought<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">--></span>moral obligation</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">1. Prefer my dictionary definitions because:</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">a. dictionaries reflect common usage which is key to predictability because it’s a check on differences in topic lit.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">b. It is the first definition in the OED which implies it is the most commonly used.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">c. Dictionaries are the most common reference, and thus most predictable across the English speaking world.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">d. The OED accounts for the evolution of a word and its usage.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">2. Synonyms can have intersecting denotations but distinct connotations. “Ought” and “should” have the same denotation but “ought” has a moral connotation. If the resolution was a question of desirability or advisability, “should” would have been used.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">States must have the capacity to make moral decisions to be morally obligated.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The standard is having the ability to make moral considerations.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Contention: States cannot make moral considerations.</span>
# <span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-top: 0in;">Governments function in an amoral role to fulfill obligations. George Kennan, “Morality and Foreign Policy. “Second, let us…basis of them.” [[http://www.politics.ubc.ca/fileadmin/template/main/images/departments/poli_sci/Faculty/price/Kennan.pdf]]</span>
# <span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-top: 0in;">Governments cannot account for changing moral norms. Werner Levi, “The Relative Irrelevance of Moral Norms in International Politics.” //University of Hawaii// (1965). “Honesty, reliability, trust-worthiness…norms into reality.”</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">[[http://heinonline.org/HOL/LandingPage?collection=journals&handle=hein.journals/josf44&div=35&id=&page]]=</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">Levi 2, “The Relative Irrelevance of Moral Norms in International Politics.” //University of Hawaii// (1965). “The second reason…each may not.”</span>
# <span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-top: 0in;">States will marginalize groups of people when adhering to a set of moral norms. Selection of policies inherently marginalize people, but the lens by which the selection is made should not.</span>

==Negative 2== 
EMP DA
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">A. Uniqueness. </span>
Terrorists have the desire to obtain nuclear weapons. Matthew Bunn, //Securing the Bomb//, Nuclear Threat Initiative (2008), 4-5. “Do terrorists want…in the future.”
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">B. Links.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. Reprocessing nukes increases risk of theft. Edwin Lyman, “Nuclear Reprocessing: Dangerous, Dirty, and Expensive,” ucsusa.org (2008). “Less than 20…500 metric tons.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">2. Theft is more likely when weapons are not deployed. Rajesh Basrur and Friedrich Steinhausler, “NUCLEAR AND RADIOLOGICAL TERRORISM THREATS FOR INDIA: RISK POTENTIAL AND COUNTERMEASURES,” //Journal of Physical Security// (2004), 4. “Unassembled weapons keep…be relatively safer.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">3. Terrorists will use them for an EMP attack. Right Side News (2010). “One of the…the more pressing.”</span>
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;">C. Impacts</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. Nuclear weapons are capable of electromagnetic pulses that have vast effects. Jerry Emanuelson, “Nuclear Electromagnetic Pulse,” //Futurescience.com// (2010). “The E1 component…entire affected area.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">2. The probably of an EMP attack is high. Emanuelson 2, “Nuclear Electromagnetic Pulse.” //Futurescience.com// (2010). “This site is…the United States.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">3. The effects of an EMP attack are complete technological destruction. “National Energy Grid Threatened by EMP Attack,” Right Side News (2010). “A blast this…an EMP attack.”</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.75in; text-indent: -0.25in;">4. An EMP blackout outweighs nuke war. “National Energy Grid Threatened by EMP Attack,” Right Side News (2010). “The Congressional EMP…all those people.”</span>
==Negative 3== 
Value is morality.

Standard is minimizing the chance of conventional war. Conventional war has killed over 100 million people in the 20th century alone. Milton Leitenberg, //Deaths in Wars and Conflicts in the 20th Century// (3rd Edition) Cornell University Peace Studies Program, August 2006, p.9 “in presenting the… and 148.5 million”


Sole contention: Possession of nuclear weapons decreases the risk of war. Kenneth Waltz, //Nuclear Myths and Political Realities// in The American Political Science Review, Vol. 84, No. 3 (Sep., 1990), p.734 “in conventional competitions… do to another”

And this is empirically confirmed. Robert Rauchhaus, //Evaluating the Nuclear Peace: A Quantitative Analysis// in the Journal of Conflict Resolution. Vol. 53, no. 2 (Apr 2009) p. 16 “the results of… possess nuclear weapons”

Rauchhaus explains his methodology. Robert Rauchhaus, //Evaluating the Nuclear Peace: A Quantitative Analysis// in the Journal of Conflict Resolution. Vol. 53, no. 2 (Apr 2009) p.11-12 "this study uses... of nuclear weapons"



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">OED Ought<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">à</span>moral obligation</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Drug abuse<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt;">à</span><span style="color: black;"> The American Heritage® Medical Dictionary Copyright © 2007, 2004 by Houghton Mifflin Company</span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">“Habitual use of drugs to alter one’s mood, emotion, or state of consciousness.”</span>
Public health approach<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">à</span> Jefferson Fish, __Drugs and society: U.S. public policy__ (Maryland: Rowland & Littlefield, 2006) p. 1
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">V-M</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Moral culpability rests on free will. “The Construction of Responsibility in the Criminal Law.” University of Pennsylvania Law Review. Vol. 140, No. 6. June 1992. By Richard C. Boldt. (“Wright explains that…illness is precluded.”)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Standard- assigning correct moral responsibility</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This ensures rationality of punishment. Gary Watson [Professor Watson works in Moral and Political Philosophy, with a special focus on moral psychology and theory of agency. A number of his essays on freedom and responsibility have been collected in his Agency and Answerability (Oxford University Press, 2004). He is also editor of Free Will (second edition, Oxford University Press, 2003). In addition, he has published on contractualism, theory of virtue, promising, and Kant’s ethics, and he maintains an active research and teaching interest in criminal law and in philosophical issues in race and gender. He is an Advisory Editor for the journal, Philosophy and Public Affairs. Professor Watson joined the Philosophy Department in 1999.], “Free Agency” The Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 72, No. 8 (Apr. 24, 1975), pp. 205-220. (“Thus I agree…of his autonomy.”)</span>
Susan Wolf [Professor of Philosophy at Johns Hopkins.] “Sanity and the Metaphysics of Responsibility.” in Robert Kane. //Free Will//. Wiley-Blackwell, 2002 p. 158-159. [[http://books.google.com/books?id=Zx9PFEPlhcC&printsec=frontcover&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0#v=onepage&q&f=false]] (“As Frankfurt, Watson…(or improve) ourselves.”)
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The capacity for sanity is key to a utilitarian criminal justice system. Oliver R. Goodenough [an expert in the law of business, including corporations, entertainment law, intellectual property, securities law, and trademarks. AT Vermont Law School, he teaches Corporations, Entertainment Law, Human Nature and the Law, International Business Transactions, Lawyering, and Securities Regulation. Professor Goodenough received his BA degree, //magna cum laude//, from Harvard University in 1975 and his JD degree, //cum laude//, from the University of Pennsylvania in 1978. After receiving his law degree, he practiced law with the New York firm of Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen and Hamilton for three years. Professor Goodenough joined the firm of Kay, Collyer and Boose of New York in 1981 and was made partner in 1986; he remained full-time at the firm until 1990 and served of counsel until 2003. During three of those years, he was also a lecturer in law at the University of Pennsylvania], “Responsibility and punishment: whose mind? A response” The Royal Society. (Nov. 26, 2004). “Punishment by a…kind of basis.”</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is that drug addiction is an illness that people are not responsible for.</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.5in; text-indent: -0.25in;">1. Blame is contingent on wrongful conduct. The moral relevance of addiction [[http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:sfciqyAwDI4J:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=10000000000000]] (“Addiction may be…acts they perform.”)</span>
# <span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-top: 0in;">We can’t adequately distinguish between recreational and medical use. The moral relevance of addiction [[http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:sfciqyAwDI4J:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=10000000000000]] (“At one time…condemned or condoned.”)</span>
# <span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-top: 0in;">Drug addiction is a chronic brain disease. Alan Leshner . “Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters.” //Science,// New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47. (“Although each drug…affect this circuit.”)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">Leshner 2. “Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters.” //Science,// New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47. (“Not only does…underlying all addictions.”)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">Contention 2 is that public health approach helps drug abuse the best.</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">Leshner 3. Alan Leshner . “Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters.” //Science,// New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47. (“At an even…of the solution.”)</span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 0.5in;">2. Criminalization approach is undesirable because it’s costly. Ernest Drucker [Dr. Ernest Drucker is the Director of the Division of Public Health and Policy Research and Professor in the Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine , and Professor of Psychiatry at Montefiore Medical Center/Albert Einstein College of Medicine. In his 32 years at Montefiore, Dr. Drucker has developed and directed programs in occupational health, community oriented primary medical care education, drug addiction treatment, and HIV/AIDS services. His research has focused on social problems and their health consequences, including the social epidemiology and geography of drug use and AIDS in the Bronx. Dr. Drucker is also involved in drug policy reform and with international associations working toward public health and harm reduction approaches to drug problems. He has been Senior Fellow of the Lindesmith Center, a drug policy research institute in New York City.Dr. Drucker is a founder and former Chairman of Doctors of the World /USA , an international medical relief and human rights organization, a founding Board member of Housing Works, Inc., an AIDS housing organization in New York City, and a founding Chairman of the board of Positive Health Project, a large harm reduction program in the Times Square area of NYC. He is also Editor-in-Chief of the international journal Addiction Research, and a founding Editorial Board member of the International Journal on Drug Policy.], "Drug Prohibition" Public Health Reports (Jan/Feb 1999). Vol. 114. (“Further federal budgets…past 25 years.”)</span>

==Negative 1== 

Ought<span style="font-family: Wingdings; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">à</span> moral obligation 
Observation 1 is the Counterplan text. The state will implement drug courts to deal with problems of illegal drug abuse. 
Larry Bembry. (“Drug Courts are…criminal justice system.”) 
Observation 2 is the Competition. 
<span style="text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">1. </span>Mutual Exclusivity. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0in 1in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">a. </span>The aff can’t defend the criminal justice system. Jean Reith Schroedel 2001 [Professor in the Department of Politics and Policy and Applied Women’s Studies at Claremont Graduate University. Her most recent book is entitled, //Is the// //Fetus Person? A Comparison of Policies Across the Fifty States//.] Punitive Versus Public Health Oriented Responses to Drug Use by Pregnant Women. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.yale.edu/yjhple/volume_1/pdf/217%20%28schroedel%29.pdf|http://www.yale.edu/yjhple/volume_1/pdf/217%20(schroedel).pdf]]</span> . pg. 217. (“Governmental response to…framework of analysis.”) </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0in 1in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">b. </span>Public health is distinct from criminal justice. Barry Mahoney 1996 [President of The Justice Management Institute (JMI), a Denver-based non-profit organization that conducts research, technical assistance, and education and training programs focused on improving court and justice system operations. ] and Kevin M. Sherin[practices geriatric medicine, family practice and public health in Orlando, Florida. Dr. Sherin graduated with an MD 33 years. (“Public health practitioners…justice system practitioners.”) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">2. </span>Net Benefits: </span>
## Drug courts are much better than public health approaches. Dwight Vick. Copyright (c) 2007 South Dakota Law Review South Dakota Law Review 2007 52 S.D. L. REV. 288 LENGTH: 19616 words ARTICLE: COMMUNITY BASED DRUG COURTS: EMPIRICAL SUCCESS. WILL SOUTH DAKOTA FOLLOW SUIT? NAME: Dwight Vick, Ph.D.+ and Jennifer Lamb Keating++ BIO: + Dr. Vick is currently an assistant professor of political science at University of South Dakota, Vermillion. (“The use of…results they do.”) 
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in 0in 0in 1in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">b. </span>Drug courts solve for recidivism. Dwight Vick. Copyright (c) 2007 South Dakota Law Review South Dakota Law Review 2007 52 S.D. L. REV. 288 LENGTH: 19616 words ARTICLE: COMMUNITY BASED DRUG COURTS: EMPIRICAL SUCCESS. WILL SOUTH DAKOTA FOLLOW SUIT? NAME: Dwight Vick, Ph.D.+ and Jennifer Lamb Keating++ BIO: + Dr. Vick is currently an assistant professor of political science at University of South Dakota, Vermillion. (“Focusing on recidivism…non-drug court participants.”) </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in;">Observation 3 is Solvency </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">1. </span>Public health doesn’t work. <span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">[1]</span></span> <span style="color: #262626;">Douglas B. Marlowe 2002 [</span>.D., Ph.D. the Director of the Division on Law & Ethics Research at the Treatment Research Institute]<span style="color: #262626;"> SYMPOSIUM: NEW VOICES ON THE WAR ON DRUGS: EFFECTIVE STRATEGIES FOR INTERVENING WITH DRUG ABUSING OFFENDERS, </span><span style="color: #69006f;">[[http://web.lexis-nexis.com/scholastic/document?_m=9a47ba13da236549c88696831c77ccdb&_docnum=2&wchp=dGLzVzz-zSkVk&_md5=3c26fa9e32d6097b26f5780a2707577c|Villanova University Villanova Law Review]]</span>. (“Is is self-evident…to six months.”) </span>


==Negative 2== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The resolution asks whether A) a criminal justice approach is appropriate for any group of actions and B) whether drug abuse is a member of that group</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ought – Random House Dictionary. [[http://www.dictionary.com/|www.dictionary.com]]. “Used to express propriety, appropriateness, etc.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Observation 1: Actions that enhance the actor’s freedom while restricting the freedom of others require criminal punishment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Crimes create moral sovereigns and punishment restores the balance
Wesley Cragg. The Practice of Punishment: Towards a Theory of Restorative Justice. Routledge, 1992. Page 11. Google Books. “The offense creates…to each other.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Punishment respects the criminal’s self-determination because it applies his or her own maxim
Kathleen Dean Moore. Pardons: Justice, Mercy, and the Public Interest. Oxford UP, 1989. Page 49. Google Books. “By a criminal…to commit crimes.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Calling the crime bad or addressing its harms doesn’t have the appropriate effect
Alan Brudner. “In Defense of Retributivism.” Retributivism and its Critics: Papers of the Special Nordic Conference. Wesley Cragg, ed. Franz Steiner Verlag Stuttgart, 1990. Page 96. Google Books. “Just as the…therefore would rights.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Observation 2: Drug abuse merits punishment</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Continued drug abuse overcomes addicts’ rational capacity
Gary Watson. “Excusing Addiction.” Law and Philosophy 18 no. 6 (1999). Page 592. jStor. “This way of…fully morally responsible.”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Addicts are responsible for their drug abuse because they chose drugs in the beginning
Steven Morse [Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at U Penn]. “Addiction, Genetics, and Criminal Responsibility.” Law and Contemporary Problems 69 no. 165 (2006). Page 167. “As everyone concedes…important and interesting.” </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Addicts have lucid periods in which they can decide to pursue treatment
Steven Morse [Professor of Psychology and Law in Psychiatry at U Penn]. “Addiction, Genetics, and Criminal Responsibility.” Law and Contemporary Problems 69 no. 165 (2006). Page 193. “The second and…avoid future offending.”</span>

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]