[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Iraq Courts Affirmative- Valley== 

Contention One is Inherency

Recent troops withdrawals from Iraq were incomplete.
Zunes 9/10. Stephen Zunes, professor of politics and chair of Middle Eastern studies at the University of San Francisco, senior policy analyst for Foreign Policy in Focus and chair of the committee of academic advisers for the International Center on Nonviolent Conflict. “Iraq: The Democrats War” from TRUTHOUT.ORG, 9/10/10. http://www.truth-out.org/iraq-the-democrats-war63120
The ongoing presence ….some kind of dodecahedron.

And, there is no way we are getting out of Iraq until 2016
Liz Sly 9/8 (Los Angeles Times, 9/8/10, " Iraqi official foresees a US military presence until 2016 ", http://mobile.latimes.com/wap/news/text.jsp?sid=294&nid=21218761&cid=16692&scid=-1&ith=2&title=World)
Reporting from Baghdad — Some form of U.S. military presence …. continue to be necessary and they will need troops to protect them.

Thus the Plan: The United States Supreme Court should rule that the deployment of troops to Iraq was an unconstitutional violation of Article One Section Eight of the United States Constitution.

Contention Two is Deference

Obama is making a continuing practice of overstretching his presidential powers
Rich Muny, 6/21/2010, “Time to pull in the REINs on the Executive Power?”, http://biggovernment.com/rmuny/2010/06/21/time-to-pull-in-the-reins-on-executive-power/
Expressing disapproval with some Obama administration ….. No Congressional approval was sought for any of these actions.

And, There is only a risk that Obama will use Bushes precedent for developing more aggressive military policies
Bruce Ackerman, professor of law and political science at Yale, March 26, 2009, http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=why_we_need_a_commission_on_presidential_power
President Barack Obama started strong by announcing the end …. landmark legislation that would decisively repudiate the unilateralism of the Bush years.

And, executive insulation from the courts is the key problem
Turley 02’ [Jonathan, J.B. and Maurice C. Shapiro Professor of Public Interest Law at The George Washington University Law, “Tribunals and Tribulations: The Antithetical Elements of Military Governance in Madisonian Democracy”, The George Washington Law Review, August, 70 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 649, ln uwyo-kn]
Military tribunals represent the most extreme manifestation ….. setback for civil liberties; it is a case of constitutional de-evolution.

Fortunately the plan sets a precedent that checks the president and future deference
Pearlstein ‘03[Deborah N., Deputy Director of the U.S. Law and Security Program at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, and a Visiting Fellow at the Stanford University Center for Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law, “The Role of the Courts in Protecting Civil Liberties and Human Rights for the Post-9/11 United States”, 2nd Pugwash Workshop on Terrorism: External and Domestic Consequences of the War on Terrorism, http://www.pugwash.org/reports/nw/terrorism2003-pearlstein.htm uwyo-kn]
In each of the historical examples just given, the judiciary ultimately played a critical role in evaluating the legality of executive action. ….. of those interned during World War II as a result of the military exclusion order.

And, Court action is key—Congress will continue to always defer to the executive on war and military issues—history proves
Louis Fisher, Ryan Hendrickson, and Stephen R. Weissman, (Hendrickson is an Associate Professor of Political Science, Eastern Illinois University, and the author of The Clinton Wars and Fisher is a Senior Scholar, Law Library, Library of Congress, and the author of more than a dozen books, including Presidential War Power, May/June 2008,“Congress at War”, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/64297/louis-fisher-ryan-hendrickson-and-stephen-r-weissman/congress-at-war)
William Howell and Jon Pevehouse ("When Congress …. and shared power. Congress has forgotten that basic tenet at great cost.

We will isolate multiple scenarios—

First, Strengthening the courts is key to check militaristic adventurism
Joel R. Paul, (Prof, U Conn Law) July, 1998, 86 Calif. L. Rev. 671, l/n
The Constitution "diffuses power...to secure liberty." …. exposed foreign policy-making to "capture" by foreign governments.

And, Deference ensures military induced extinction
Kellman ‘89(Barry, Prof – Depaul, Duke Law Journal, December, Lexis)
In this era of thermonuclear weapons, America must uphold its historical commitment to be a nation of law. …. under the mushroom cloud of thermonuclear holocaust.

Second, Judicial deference ensures military anthrax vaccinations
Natashia Tidwell, JD, New England School of Law, “Soldiers of Misfortune: The Justiciability of Injunctive Relief Actions in the Federal Courts and the U.S. Military's Mandatory Anthrax Inoculation Program,” New England Law Review, v. 37, Winter 2003, p. 434-435.
Although no circuit split exists on the issue, this Note also includes a brief exploration …. that AVIP will withstand constitutional challenge.

And anthrax vaccinations lead to biological arms race
Thomas S. Heemstra, Lieutenant Colonel and Former F-16 Fighter Commander, USAF, “Written Testimony of Thomas Heemstra,” House Government Reform and Oversight Committee Hearings, Subcommittee on National Security, Veterans Affairs and International Relations, September 29, 2K, http://www.avip2001.net/DOCS/Heemstra990929.pdf.
STRATEGY ISSUES (Military Strategy)
1. A biological arms race can not be won. Takes 10 days to 2 weeks to develop a new offensive weapon….
8. Col Friedlander, head of Bacteriology at Ft. Detrick, ’94: "No assessment of the effectiveness of the vaccine against inhalation anthrax could be made because there were too few cases."

And, Bio-weapons cause extinction
Ochs 02 former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group [Richard Ochs, , June 9, 2002, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered …. hundreds of such plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE.

Third, Judicial Deference allows the military to ignore environmental regulations -->
John S. Applegate, Professor @ Indiana Law School, Ecology Law Quarterly, 1999
The defense establishment is not exempted from …. form the substantive content of a procedural approach like NEPA.

And, Environmental Degradation causes extinction
Suurküla Chairman of Physicians and Scientists 6, (Jaan, M.D., for Responsible Application of Science and Technology (PSRAST), “World-wide cooperation required to prevent global crisis; Part one— the problem”, Physicians and Scientists for Responsible Application of Science and Technology, 6/24, http://www.globalissues.org/article/171/loss-of-biodiversity-and-extinctions)
The world environmental situation is likely to be further aggravated by the increasingly … will be lost in the coming 50 years. The most important cause was found to be climate change

Fourth, court deference fuels racist executive policies
Thomas W. Joo, Professor, Law, University of California-Davis, “Presumed Disloyal: Executive Power, Judicial Deference, and the Construction of Race before and after September 11,” COLUMBIA HUMAN RIGHTS LAW REVIEW v. 34, Fall 2002, p. 46-47.
The racial category of the "Arab" has historically been less familiar to ….of such developments and their potential for lasting negative effects on law and democracy.

And you must REJECT racism in every instance
Barndt ‘91[Joseph, Co-director of Ministry Working to Dismantle Racism, "Dismantling Racism" p. 155wdc]
But we have also seen that …. we dare not allow it to continue.

Contention Three is Iraq Stability

Commitment to withdrawal is critical- delaying would undermine Iraqi stability
William C. Martel, 7/1/2009, is an associate professor of international security studies at The Fletcher School at Tufts University.,USA Today, LexisNexis, Pull back, no matter what; Opposing view: Sticking to deadlines boosts U.S. credibility, may strengthen Iraq.
Iraqi officials greeted Tuesday's deadline for withdrawing ….. Maliki would instantly undermine Iraq's government.

The signal of the aff is key—commitment to withdrawal is necessary to motivate regional cooperation and maintain a stable Iraq
Lawrence Korb, Staff Writer for the American Conservative, 5/19/08 (http://www.amconmag.com/article/2008/may/19/00015/)
The opponents of this senseless war seem to have far more … allow us to focus on real threats to our national interests.

Iraq instability causes global nuclear war
Corsi, Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard & Staff Reporter for World Net Daily, 1-8-7 (Jerome, "War with Iran is Imminent, http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=53669)
If a broader war breaks out in Iraq, Olmert will certainly face pressure …. . A broader regional war could easily lead into a third world war, much as World Wars I and II began.

Perception of a requirement to withdraw solves for Iraq Stability-- the ruling means we have to get out of there
Kahl, Colin H. ; Odom, William E. When to Leave Iraq - Today, Tomorrow, or Yesterday Reviews & Responses Foreign Affairs
87 Foreign Aff. (2008)
As the United States moves forward in Iraq, …. in a long-term security relationship with the United States, especially continued U.S. support for the Iraqi security forces, this tactic could prove very effective.

And, Its try or die – even if withdrawal increases violence – that’s inevitable now
Stephen M. Walt ( Robert and Renée Belfer Professor of International Affairs at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government) June 2009 “ Bush's gift to Obama” http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/06/29/bushs_gift_to_obama?showcomments=yes
It is of course possible -- even likely -- …. that will ultimately have to occur before Iraq is finally stable.

Contention 4 is Colonialism:

After 9/11, the United States began to spread democracy through violence and terror. This project of colonization is inextricable from the continuation of the war – absent withdrawal, the initial legacy will continue
Kramer and Michalowski 05 (Ronal C. Kramer, professor university of western Michigan, and Raymond J. Michalowski, professor northern Arizona university. “War, Aggression and State Crime” April 05, Centre for Crime and Justice Studies)
Even though a stroke of good luck had placed them near the center of power, neo- conservative …. ‘Democracy has become Empire’s euphemism for neo-liberal capitalism.’

We currently use colonial sources in our attempt to forcibly expand American values in Iraq. The result has been a quarantine of society and mass death
Said 03 (Edward Said, professor at Columbia, 4/22/03, “The Appalling consequences are now clear” http://www.counterpunch.org/said04222003.html
We avoid our solemn duty to debate the one topic on the minds of all Americans, ….. against the Americans, "and this from a graduate of London University."

We have to reject this colonialism- if we allow it continue it will result in the death and destruction of the planet
Nermeen Shaikh, @ Asia Source ‘7, [Development 50, “Interrogating Charity and the Benevolence of Empire,” palgrave-journals]
It would probably be incorrect to assume that the principal impulse …. and Arab identities in Palestine and the Mediterranean generally (Anidjar, 2003, 200

Solving for colonization in Iraq is the starting point for challenging a new era of US intervention. Only the affirmative’s rejection of the logic of pre-emption combats imperialism on a global scale
Everest 2004. Larry Everest, reporter for 20 years with “The Revolutionary Worker, 2004 “Oil, Power, and Empire: Iraq and the US Global Agenda” Common Courage Press
The NSS mentioned Iraq only once in passing. Yet for any who wonder ….. U.S. ship of state, all roads led through Baghdad.101


==Iraq Courts Affirmative- Glenbrooks== 

Thus the Plan: The United States Supreme Court should rule that the deployment of troops to Iraq was an unconstitutional violation of Article One Section Eight of the United States Constitution, mandating that all currently deployed United States military presence be removed from Iraq.


Contention 3 is Pre-Emptive War:

First, Obama is continuing to use the Bush Doctrine—there is only a risk that he can still use the pre-emptive war logic 


Michael Roston, 5/26/10, “Will Obama repudiate the Bush Doctrine or won’t he?”, http://trueslant.com/level/2010/05/26/will-obama-repudiate-the-bush-doctrine-or-wont-he/

One of the highest moments …. on the books.

And, Supreme Court action on Iraq is key to overturn pre-emptive war doctrine.


Scales 05. Ann Scales: Associate Professor, University of Denver College of Law. Published in the “Berkeley Journal of Gender, Law and Justice”. “Symposium: Soft on Defense: The Failure To Confront Militarism”. 2005. Lexis Nexis.


[*376] The preemptive nature of the Iraq War…. is the "recurring tragedy of republics." n30


And, Supreme Court should rule pre-emptive war unconstitutional.


Mitchell 04. John B Mitchell, Associate professor of law, Seattle University School of Law, Degree from Stanford Law School. Published, Santa Clara Law Review, 2004. “"PREEMPTIVE WAR": IS IT CONSTITUTIONAL?”. Lexis Nexis.


In contrast, the … political question doctrine. n19


And, U.S. preventive war logic will be modeled globally--culminating in nuclear war.

Duncan E. J. Currie LL.B. (Hons.) 5/22/2003 “’Preventive War’ and International Law After Iraq” LL.M.
It may be that the … the rule of law.

Fortunately, the plan would restore international legal norms against preemptive 
action. 

Anthony Arend, Professor in the Dept. of Govt and the School of Foreign Services and adjunct profess of law, and Director of the Institute for International Law and Politics, Georgetown University, 2003. [Washington Quarterly, 26: 2, International law and the preemptive use of military force, 89 — 103]

So, what is to be done? …. in pointing the way to its improvement.

We’ll Isolate Multiple Scenarios—
First, preemptive logic will drive strikes on Iran and Russia war.

Mark Gaffney. (Researcher, anti-nuclear activist, principle organizer of first earth day). 05/08/03. www.informationclearinghouse.info/article3288.htm 

It is very possible--some ….. background, and provide

Iran attack will cause a global nuclear war that leads to human extinction

Hirch Professor at the University og Califorina at San Diego 2008

(Seymour Hirsch, Professor of physics @ the University of California @ San Diego, 4/10/2k8 http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=viewArticle&code=HIR20060422&articleId=2317)

Iran is likely to … anybody has prevailed.

Second, U.S.-Russian nuclear exchange is the only war that risks our existence.

Nick Bostrum, Professor of Philosophy, Yale University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” 2002, www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html.

A much greater existential risk … encounter in the 21st century.


And Russia war would be the worst— together we hold 90% of the worlds nuclear weapons

Dean Babst, Coordinator, Accidental Nuclear War Prevention Project, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, “U.S. and Russian Nuclear Defense Strategies are Fatally Flawed – They Can't be Used Without Self-Destruction,” June 2001, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/06/00_babst_fatally-flawed.htm.

Nuclear Defense Strategies … countries including themselves.


And Russia war guarantees global ecological collapse and extinction of all life.

Helen Caldicott, President, Nuclear Policy Research Institute, “Interview: U.S., Russia Still Face Mutual Destruction Threat,” UPI, May 18, 2005.
Q. What kind of priority … freeze to death in the dark.

Third, Continuation of the pre-emptive war doctrine destroys U.S. Turkey co-operation

Yeni Safak, “Review of Turkish Islamist Press for 11 Jun 05,” BBC MONITORING EUROPE, June 11, 2005, LN.
In a 700-word article … concurrence of interests.
Loss of co-operation leads to Central Asian instability.
TURKISH DAILY NEWS, October 7, 2003, LN.
Another corner of ….in the Middle East.
Central Asian instability leads to nuclear war.
Ira Shorr, Institute for Policy Studies, THE RECORD, October 14, 2001, LN.
This process of keeping ... of nuclear weapons.





=Negative= 


==START DA/General Politics== 



===Uniqueness=== 

START Passing—Democrats are cutting deals with Republicans despite Kyl
Kaplan 11/17, “Going to War Over a Treaty
President Obama can// get the Senate to ratify the New START treaty. But it won't be easy.”, http://www.slate.com/id/2275295/pagenum/2
It's odd, given how few voters… —then maybe he'll jump onboard.

START Passing—Despite Kyl 
Shorr 11/18 (David Shorr, 11/18/10, " David Shorr: Lugar to Kyl: Time to "Get Real ", http://tpmcafe.talkingpointsmemo.com/2010/11/17/lugar_to_kyl_time_to_get_real/?ref=c1)
Strong ….. is the height of ingratitude and disrespect.
AND, 
START Passing Lugar has support despite Kyl—But Leadership among the GOP is fragile 
Landay 11/17 (Jonathan S. Landay, David Lightman, 11/17/10, " Obama, Republicans in test of wills over START treaty ", http://www.miamiherald.com/2010/11/17/1931113/obama-republicans-in-test-of-wills.html)
WASHINGTON — The Obama administration appeared … and policy negotiation.
AND, 
START Passing—Vote Counts 
Kaplan et al. 11/18, Aamer Madhani, Rebecca Kaplan and Megan Scully, “Obama: Passing New START a National Security Imperative”, http://www.nationaljournal.com/member/whitehouse/obama-says-passing-new-start-a-national-security-imperative-20101118
President Obama said passing …. with bipartisan support."




START Passing—Lugar is persuading other Republicans to get on board 

Hill 10/27 (Taylor Rushing, Roxana Tiron, 10/27/10, " Lugar: Fallout from election could derail vote on START treaty ", http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/126161-midterm-election-fallout-could-derail-start-treaty-vote-key-republican-says)
A leading Republican advocate for a new …. come to that point yet.”
START Passing—they are cutting a deal with Kyl 

Politico 10/28 (10/28/10, " ICBM episode seized by START proponents, critics ", http://www.politico.com/blogs/laurarozen/1010/ICBM_episode_seized_by_proponents_critics_of_new_START_treaty.html)
The Obama administration … make Kyl an offer. 
START Passing—Arms treaty have a history of bipart support—and our ev takes into account mid-terms
(Eugene Ivanov, 10/25/10, " Will Republicans chill US-Russia relations? ", http://www.oyetimes.com/news/europe/6800-will-republicans-chill-us-russia-relations)

A fear in Moscow is that the Senate … November or December.




===Internal Links=== 

Being in align with Republicans on foreign policy objectives is the only way to get Obamas agenda passed
(Ed Ross, 11/8/10, " Can Obama become a foreign policy president? ", http://dailycaller.com/2010/11/08/can-obama-become-a-foreign-policy-president/)
The wars in Iraq … under his leadership.


===Afghanistan=== 

Republicans <3 Afghanistan including the Surge

Council on Foreign Relations 9/15 (9/15/10, " Foreign Policy Sidelined in Midterms ", http://www.cfr.org/publication/22939/foreign_policy_sidelined_in_midterms.html)
We're not seeing a lot of.. , China, [and] immigration.
Republicans love the war in Afghanistan—withdrawal guarantees conflicts in congress 

Voice of America 10/18 (Jim Malone, 10/18/10, " US Election Results Could Impact Foreign Policy ", http://www.voanews.com/english/news/usa/US-Election-Results-Could-Impact-Foreign-Policy-105187239.html)

Afghanistan remains the …. him to begin withdrawing," says

Republicans will use election momentum to block everything possible if Obama pulls out of Afghanistan 

Los Angeles Times 10/27 (Paul Richter, Christi Parsons, 10/27/10, " White House prepares for foreign policy challenges — from Congress ", http://www.latimes.com/news/politics/la-fg-midterms-foreign-
20101028,0,881929.story)
Though the GOP won't have … said a senior Republican aide.



===Kuwait Links=== 

Lieberman hates pull out—security

Kay 06, “More US troops to Kuwait, as Bush moves to escalate the war in Iraq”, http://www.wsws.org/articles/2006/dec2006/iraq-d30.shtml
The Pentagon … decides to pursue.”

Kuwait is perceived as a key ally – withdrawal risks abandonment, Petraeus statement proves.
Nicola Nasser, Staff Writer, “Israel Is Fueling Anti-Americanism among U.S. Allies,” Atlantic Free Press, June 8, 2010, Lexis.
The Arab hard core … ruling partys deputy chairman. 



==Iran Strikes DA== 

A. Israel won’t strike Iran now—they still perceive US commitment and are waiting on sanctions

FOXNews 8/19 (" More Than 5 Reasons Why Israel Won't Strike Iran Anytime Soon ", http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2010/08/19/judith-miller-iran-nuclear-reactor-bushehr-strike-middle-east-israel-america/)

But I also doubt that Israel … call to have to make.” 

B. Weakening of US military presence in the region leads to Israeli arms buildup and Iran strikes

Jim Hoagland, Staff Writer for the Washington Post, March 1, 2009 “A Perilous Pivot,” The Washington Post, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/02/27/AR2009022702293_pf.html

The president is clear that … from the region's multiple conflicts. 

C. Israeli strikes would lead to all out nuclear war in the Middle East

Claude Salhani, foreign editor and a political analyst with United Press International, 9-13-2004, “Four Day War”, The American Conservative, http://www.amconmag.com/2004_09_13/article.html

Israel is unlikely to accept … tries to arrange a cease-fire.


==NMD Trade Off== 

===1NC=== 

A. Obama’s FY 2010 budget slashed missile defense by 1.2 billion, cut interceptors and made NMD deployment functionally impossible.
Michael R. Turner, Republican Representative to Congress, “REP. IKE SKELTON HOLDS A MARKUP OF PENDING DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION AND SHIPBUILDING-AVIATION LEGISLATION,” CQ TRANSCRIPTIONS, June 16, 2009, lexis.
The area where we're going to diverge in opinion …. partially complete, and curtail additional GMD development. 

B. Links – 
1. The plan gives Congress an offset they will use to restore missile defense funding.
Baker Spring, F. M. Kirby Research Fellow in National Security Policy, Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, “OBAMA MISSILE DEFENSE PLAN PUTS AMERICA AT RISK,” STATES NEWS SERVICE, June 29, 2009, lexis.
Step 1: Attempt to restore overall funding to the missile defense program…. This would permit the inclusion of the provisions of H.R. 2845 in the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2010. 

2. Full deployment of missile defense guarantees assertive Russian nationalism.
Stephen F. Cohen, Professor of Russian Studies, New York University, “McCain, Obama, and Russia,” THE NATION, 6-30-08, http://www.thenation.com/doc/20080714/cohen.
Such US behavior was bound to produce a Russian …. would enhance rather than further endanger our national security.

C. Impact –
Russian nationalism causes Nuclear World War 3.
Victor Israelyan, Former Soviet Ambassador to the U.S., “Russia at the Crossroads: Don’t Tease a Wounded Bear,” The Washington Quarterly, Winter 1998, lexis.
The first and by far most dangerous possibility is what I ….. world war that cost humanity more than 50 million lives.


===2NC=== 

Biggest magnitude— 

A. 90% of the world’s nuclear weapons.
Dean Babst, Coordinator, Accidental Nuclear War Prevention Project, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, “U.S. and Russian Nuclear Defense Strategies are Fatally Flawed – They Can't be Used Without Self-Destruction,” June 2001, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2001/06/00_babst_fatally-flawed.htm.
Nuclear Defense Strategies - The nuclear arsenals of the United States and Russia, …. launching thousands of nuclear weapons could destroy all countries including themselves.

B. Turns case – guarantees global ecological collapse and extinction of all life.
Helen Caldicott, President, Nuclear Policy Research Institute, “Interview: U.S., Russia Still Face Mutual Destruction Threat,” UPI, May 18, 2005.
Q. What kind of priority should we therefore give …. Most species of life would slowly freeze to death in the dark.

FASTEST TIMEFRAME—

A. Russia is ready to fire its weapons – if they perceive any threat, we’ll all be dead in 15 minutes – our ev is specific to NMD.
Joseph Cirincione, senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, “Nuclear Summer,” July 23, 2007, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2007/07/nuclear_summer.html/print.html.
It’s summertime, and the nuclear fish are jumping. In just the first half …. good relations for granted and scorn any further negotiated nuclear reductions.


B. We’d be dead right away.
J.R. Nyquist, Renowned Expert in Geopolitics and International Relations, “Surprise nuclear missile attack, part 2,” WORLDNETDAILY, November 15, 1999, http://www.worldnetdaily.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=19774.
The greatest danger facing America is ….. nuclear war scares since the collapse of Communism.

GREATEST Probability— 
A. Miscalc makes war certain.
Ira Shorr, Analyst, Institute for Policy Studies, Washington D.C., “Greatest Peril is Still Nuclear,” THE RECORD (BERGEN COUNTY, NJ), October 14, 2001, LN.
While these actions helped the nuclear superpowers back away ….. send a signal to the word that in this volatile time, the U.S. is serious about preventing the use of nuclear weapons.





==Specific Negative Rounds== 

===Valley Round #1 v. South Korea=== 

1NC: - South Korea Econ DA
- Allied Prolif on case
- NMD 
- START
- South Korea Alliance Bad Turns 
- XO CP 
- T-non combat troops 

2NC/1NR: Entire 1NC except T-Non Combat Troops 

2NR: South Korea Econ DA


===Valley Round #3/#4/Octos v. COIN=== 

1NC:
- Increase Troops for COIN CP 
- NMD 
- START 
- Israel Strikes DA 
- T Non Combat Troops 

2NC: 

- START 
- CP 

1NR: 
One of the DAs?

===Caucus Round #1 v. Japan BMD=== 

1NC:
- T- Military Presence 
- NMD 
- NFU China CP
- START DA

Block: 
- Case 
- START
- NMD 
- NFU China CP

2NR: 
- START/ Case/ NFU China CP 

===Caucus Round #4 v. South Korea=== 

1NC: 
- Pull out of Japan CP
- START DA
- NMD DA
- South Korea Econ DA
- T- Non combat Troops 

Block: 
- START 
- South Korea Econ DA 
- Pull out of Japan CP 
- Case 

2NR: 
- START/Case

===Caucus Round #5 v. COIN=== 

1NC: 
- START 
- Israel Strikes 
- NMD 
- Surge CP 
- T-Non Combat Troops 

Block: 
- START 
- NMD 
- Surge CP 
- Case 

2NR: 
- NMD/Surge CP/ Case

===Caucus Doubles v. Japan BMD:=== 

1NC:
- T- Military Presence 
- China NFU CP 
- START 
- NMD 

Block:
- Case
- START 
- NMD 

2NR: 
- Case
- START


===Glenbrooks Round 1 v. K TNWs:=== 

1NC:

- Turkey Nuclear Sharing CP 
- START DA
- NMD 
- Extra T- USFG 
- T- Not Weapon Systems 

2NC:
- START DA
- CP 
- Case

1NR:
- Both Ts 

2NR:
- START DA
- Case 

===Glenbrooks Round 4 v. Kuwait:=== 

1NC:
- START DA
- NMD DA
- Iran Expansionism DA 
- Kuwait Econ DA 

2NC:
- START DA
- NMD DA 
- Case 

1NR:
- One of the other DAs

2NR:
- START DA

===Glenbrooks Round 6 v. PMCs:=== 

1NC:
- NMD 
- START 
- Consult EU 
- T- Military Presence 

2NC:
- START
- NMD 

1NR:
- T-Mil
- Case 

2NR:
- START

===Dowling Round 1 v. Maine East DU=== 

1NC: 
- Courts cp- with internal net benefit 
- START DA
- Topicality- substantial, military presence
- Case 

Block: 
- START DA
- Courts CP 
- T 
2NR: 
- START DA
- Courts CP 

===Dowling Round 3 v. GBS COIN=== 

1NC: 
- START DA
- Iran Strikes 
- Surge CP 
- T non-combat troops 

Block: 
- START DA
- Iran Strikes 
- Surge CP 

2NR: 
- START DA
- Surge CP 

===Dowling Round 6/Octos v. SFL Afghanistan:=== 

1NC: 
- Courts CP 
- START DA 
- Iran Strikes 
- NMD DA 

Block: 
- Courts CP 
- START DA
- Iran Strikes 

2NR: 
- START DA 
- Courts CP 

===Blake Round 2 v. GBS COIN:=== 

See Dowling Round 3 

===Blake Round 4 v. Oak Park South Korea:=== 


1NC: 
- Pull out of Japan 
- SKFTA Domestic Politics 
- START DA 
- NMD DA 
- T- Non Combat Troops 

Block: 
- Pull out of Japan
- SKFTA 
- START DA
- T 

2NR: 
- START DA 

===Blake Round 5 v. Edina Japan:=== 

1NC: 
- Warming CP 
- T-Substantial 
- START DA
- Eco K 

Block: 
- START 
- Warming CP 
- Case Turns 

2NR: 
- START DA

===Blake Round 7 v. Whitney Young Japan BMD:=== 

1NC: 
- PIC out of SMIII Block 2A
- Courts CP with deference internal net benefit
- START DA 
- T- You just arent topical 

Block:
- T
- START DA
- Courts CP 

2NR: 
-Courts CP 
- START DA