<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**Observation I: Inherency –**</span>

**Sunday’s election in Okinawa proves – public animosity over Futenma is higher than ever**
**The Times 11/29** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[The Times (London), “US base must leave Okinawa, says its re-elected Governor”, 11/29/10, Edition 2; National Edition, News, Pg. 30, lexis, LFan]</span>
__The Governor of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … pressure from Washington.</span>

**No resolution is in sight – Nakaima will block all attempts to move Futenma internally**
**Yoshimuri and Funatski 11/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ryuhei Yoshimura and Kakuchi Funatsuki, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff writers, Yomiuri, “Nakaima win brings Futenma solution no closer,” The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo), Pg. 1, lexis, LFan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NAHA--</span>__Okinawa Gov. … solution is reached.__

**Advantage one: Senkaku –**

**China and Japan are on the brink of war over the Senkaku Islands – risks global escalation**
**Khan 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – writer for the Financial Express Bangladesh [Maswood Alam Khan, “An islet straining China and Japan”, 9/21/10, http://www.thefinancialexpress-bd.com/more.php?news_id=112447&date=2010-09-22, LFan]</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">Anti-Japanese sentiment … </span>muscle to Iraq</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**US-Japan relations are at a critical point – resolving Futenma is key**
**Foster and Kanak 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– a former State Department official, is vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan, and a former president and chairman of the A.C.C.J. [Jim and Don, “A Reset in Japan-U.S. Relations?” New York Times, 9/15/10, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/16/opinion/16iht-edfoster.html, LFan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Life rarely gives. … their defense budgets. </span>

**Futenma crushes US-Japan relations DESPITE REGIONAL THREATS**
**Blair 11/29** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gavin, Correspondent, “Okinawa election eases pressure on US military base location,” The Christian Science Monitor, 11/29/10, Lexis, LFan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Both Washington and … </span><span class="Underline">belligerent Asian neighbors.</span>

**This gives China a window to seize the Senkaku Islands**
**Ito 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– staff writer for The Japan Times [Masami, “Beijing testing Japan-U.S. relationship, Armitage warns”, The Japan Times, 9/16/10, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100916a4.html, LFan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Former U.S. Deputy Secretary … a more meaningful nature." </span>

**Resolving Futenma is key to checking attack**
**Tabuchi 11/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Hiroko, “Okinawa vote imperils U.S. base; Re-election of opponent of Marine station seen as obstacle to Japan deal,” International Herald Tribune, 11/30/10, NEWS, pg. 2, lexis, LFan]</span>
<span class="Underline">Voters </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">on the … </span><span class="Underline">lingering historical animosity.</span>

**Senkaku conflict risks full-scale Sino-Japanese war**
**Wall Street Journal 9/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“The Other China Sea Flashpoint”, 9/12/10, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704644404575481172425189824.html, LFan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rival claims to </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">… </span><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">harder to extinguish.</span></span>

**Draws in the US and the rest of Asia**
**Pei and Swaine 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior associate and director of the China Program at the Carnegie Endowment, Michael, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment’s China Program [Minxin, “Simmering Fire in Asia: Averting Sino-Japanese Strategic Conflict,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=17720&prog=zch]</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">The stakes</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for … </span><span class="Underline">on the other.</span>

**Extinction**
**Cirincione 2K** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Cirincione, Joseph. "The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain." Foreign Policy (Spring</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2000): 120. Expanded Academic ASAP]</span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">The blocks</span></span> __would <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a nuclear weapon since 1945.</span>

**Advantage two: Naval Power**

**Elections prove Futenma opposition is still high**
**Takeda 11/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Kazuhiro, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writer, “Bases focus of election for 30% of Okinawa voters,” The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo), 11/30/10, pg. 3, lexis, LFan]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Yomiuri Shimbun … answers from 4,902 voters.</span>

**Dispute spills over and prevents us from stationing nuclear aircraft carriers in Japan**
**Auslin 10 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Japanese Studies Director @ AEI [Michael Auslin, Director of Japanese Studies @ The American Enterprise Institute, Former Senior Research Fellow @ The MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies @ Yale, “The Real Futenma Fallout,” June 16th 2010, [[http://epaper.wsj-asia.com/WSJA/WSJA/2010/06/17/ArticleHtmls/17_06_2010_013_017.shtml]]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Here's the … alliance’s military capabilities.</span>

**Scenario I: Carriers**

**Stationing in Japan is key to naval power projection**
**Kazuhisa 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Ogawa Kazuhisa, Analyst of International Politics and Military Security Issues, “Substantive Debate Needed on Defense Partnership,” 1999, Japan Quarterly, July—September, Volume 46, Number 3]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The first … </span><span class="Underline">a power-projection platform</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Aircraft carriers are uniquely key to sea power**
**Brookes 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Peter, Senior Fellow, National Security Affairs and Chung Ju-Yung Fellow for Policy Studies, Asian Studies Center, “Flattop Follies: Navy cuts back on carriers,” the Heritage Foundation, 2 May 2008, <http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed050208a.cfm>]</span>
__Maintenance required on … to its detriment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Sea power is key to preventing every scenario of conflict**
**Conway et al 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf)]</span>
<span class="Underline">United States seapower … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">extended campaigns ashore. </span>

**Every carrier counts – falling fleet levels emboldens adversaries**
**Eaglen and Dolbow 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Mackenzie Senior Policy Analyst for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies; and Jim, M.A. candidate in Statecraft and World Politics at the Institute of World Politics in Washington, D.C., “SOS: Congress Must Save the Aircraft Carrier Fleet,” April 2, http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/wm1880.cfm]</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Recently, U.S. Navy leadership … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">operations, and modernize. </span>

**Scenario II: Korea**

<span class="createdby">**The Korean peninsula is on the brink of war – US aircraft carrier deployment is key to deterring it**</span>
<span class="createdby">**Guarnieri 12/3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Phil, “Iron Glove/ Velvet Fist”, 12/3/10, http://www.antonnews.com/floralparkdispatch/opinion/12031-phil-osophically-speaking-december-3-2010.html, LFan]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Winston Churchill once … </span><span class="Underline">boldness without excluding it. </span>

**High risk of escalation now**
**SMH12/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [James Norman, Jim Green, " North Korea on the brink in a nuclear world ", 12/1/10, http://www.smh.com.au/opinion/politics/north-korea-on-the-brink-in-a-nuclear-world-20101201-18gdh.html, LFan]</span>
<span class="Underline">Tensions remain high … of megaphone diplomacy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**North Korean war goes nuclear**
**<span style="color: black;">Chol 2 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">[Kim Myong, The Agreed Framework is Brain Dead, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/0212A_Chol.html]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second choice … of the Americans. </span>

**Causes extinction**
**<span class="cite">Hayes and Hamel-Green 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://japanfocus.org/-Michael-Hamel_Green/3267]</span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; font-weight: normal;">On the Korean … </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">Earth’s protective ozone</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Plan: The Department of Defense should withdraw all U.S. Marines from Okinawa except the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.**

**Removing troops from Futenma solves the alliance without undermining US deterrence**
**Bandow 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– senior fellow at the Cato Institute [Doug, “Get out of Japan”, The National Interest, 6/18/10, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/get-out-of-japan-3580, LFan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Candidate Barack Obama… </span>__place to start__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Withdrawing all but the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit solves relations and public animosity**
**O’Hanlon 1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution [Michael, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx] </span>
<span class="Underline">Keeping so many … to Japanese use</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**The plan is key – withdrawing marines while maintain air and naval units is key to regional security**
**Chanlett and Konishi 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Specialist in Asian Affairs at the Congressional Research Service, Analyst in Asian Affairs at the Congressional Research Service [Emma Chanlett-Avery and Weston S. Konishi, 7/23/2009, “The Changing US-Japan Alliance: Implications for U.S. Interests” published on fas.org http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33740.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some </span>__analysts argue … in the region.__

**The plan is key to the alliance**
**Bandow 10** **–** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to President Reagan [Doug, “Japan Can Defend Itself,” 5/12/10, The National Interest Online, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/japan-can-defend-itself-3594, LFan]</span>
__America's post-Cold … Washington to deliver.__

**Prefer our impact scenarios over their contrived justifications**
**De Vries 11/30** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Paul, “Ditch Futenma to resurrect Japan-U.S. ties,” Japan Times, 11/30/10, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/fl20101130hn.html, LFan]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dear Okinawa Gov. … VRIES Saitama City</span>

=== ===