[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 


[[#_Toc139177962]]

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Observation 1 is, The Harsh Reality…. </span>== 

<span style="color: black;">David **Swanson** </span>January 19, **2011** (War Are Not Fought on Battlefields [[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=22860]] accessed: 1-25-11)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">War rapes women. ..in an effort to kill each other</span>.__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


And thus Andrew and I take it upon ourselves to deal with this ongoing issue by advocating under this years resolution that the USFG remove its military presence from the Republic of Korea…

Observation 2: Inherency

First, US military basing is expanding in Korea despite opposition by local populations
<span class="cite">Kirk 2008</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific) </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">The expansion of U.S. military bases …invest millions of dollars to pay for this expansion</span> </span>

And, despite the “zero tolerance” policy and executive orders, military prostitution and immunity from prosecution for sex crimes continues in the context of Korea
<span class="cite">Kirk, 2008</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Military prostitution continues … through prostitution, has had serious effects on women’s health</span> </span>

**<span style="color: #131413;">Rape by US Soldiers are the highest in south Korea than any other country. </span>**
**<span style="color: #131413;">Lee, 2010 </span>**
<span style="color: #131413; font-family: 'AdvTTb8864ccf.B',serif; font-size: 9.5pt;">Chang-Hun, </span><span style="color: #131413; font-family: AdvTT3713a231,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Department of Criminal Justice, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, “</span><span style="color: #131413;">Institutionalized Hegemonic Masculinity and Rape by United States Army Personnel in South Korea: A Perspective on Military Subculture”, Asian Criminology Journal, </span>http://www.springerlink.com/content/3r2341331x22g936/fulltext.pdf 

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Studies have found that … </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">likely to commit rape.</span> </span>



This perpetual machinery of military sexual exploitation is structured into the US-Korean relationship—we have total control of the military situation in Korea and shield out soldiers and military leaders from prosecution
<span class="cite">Korea International War Crimes Tribunal 2001</span> (New York Report on US Crimes in Korea 1945-2001 “Statistics on Crimes Committed by US Troops in south Korea” http://www.iacenter.org/Koreafiles/ktc-civilnetwork.htm.T.K)
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">Based on the statistics, ….have not changed much since then</span></span>

==Advantage 1: Rape== 

First, military bases in Asia (specifically Korea) inherently result in rape and other forms of violence against women
<span class="cite">Kirk 2008</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)
<span class="underline">Violence against women is pervasive ….legal, political, economic, and social structures. </span>

This strategy of military basing on foreign territories is the foundation of a pervasive militarism that results in racism, sexism, sexual violence, rape, environmental destruction, and war!!! All of these impacts have our bases as their common core
<span class="cite">Kirk, 2008</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)
<span class="underline">The power dynamics of …that reinforce gender stereotypes. </span>


And, rape outweighs any impacts: it’s worse than nuclear war
<span class="cite">New York Times, 1983</span> [December 29, 1983, “A Feminist Campaign for the Presidency”]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that </span><span class="underline">violence against women is a fundamental political issue…..Peace has</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> got </span><span class="underline">to begin with peace between the sexes.'' </span>

And, rape is the ultimate expression of patriarchy
<span class="cite">Cahill, 2001</span> Ann Cahill, Associate Professor of Philosophy, Rethinking Rape, Page 2, 2001
<span class="underline">Rape is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for many feminists,</span><span class="underline"> ….that indisputable act of violence and loathing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>







We must recognize patriarchy as the system that keeps all forms of violence alive. The impact of patriarchy outweighs all and culminates in extinction. Our plan’s confrontation of the patriarchal conceptions embedded in militarism is key to solve.
<span class="cite">Warren and Cady 1996</span> (Karen and Duane, Assistant Professors Macalester University and Hamline University, Bringing Peace Home: Feminism, Violence, and Nature, p. 12-13, LV)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Operationalized, </span><span class="underline">the evidence of patriarchy as a …will make life on earth</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> difficult, if not </span><span class="underline">impossible</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


==Advantage 2: Sex Trafficking== 

First, Prostitution and brothels are INTEGRAL to US military bases in Korea, culminating in sexual exploitation
<span class="cite">Enriquez, 1999</span> (Jean, Director of the Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in the Asia Pacific, November,
“Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, http://www.catw-<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/) </span><span class="underline">The grave labour …. from the lucrative R & R business. </span>

South Korea is a central hub and transit point for sex trafficking in the broader Asia-Pacific region
<span class="cite">Statemaster Encyclopedia, 2006</span> (“Encyclopedia > Prostitution in South Korea”, http://www.statemaster.com/encyclopedia/Prostitution-in-South-Korea)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Prostitution in South Korea is a large illegal industry. The Ministry of Gender and Family Equality estimated that it comprises over 4% of South Korea's GDP, with revenue exceeding $22 billion. Prostitution ranges from streetwalkers in red light districts to. </span><span class="underline">Out of a total population …. have been tricked or forced. </span>





Prostitution is inseparable from sex trafficking. Trafficking is akin to slavery and dehumanization
<span class="cite">Enriquez, 1999</span> (Jean, Director of the Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in the Asia Pacific, November,
“Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, http://www.catw-ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/)
<span class="underline">trafficking in women is ….perceived as less than human. </span>

This is a good old fashioned Decision Rule—we must place values over survival, especially in the context of contemporary human slavery that takes the form of human trafficking
<span class="cite">Schmitz, 2004</span> (Joseph E., Inspector General of the Department of Defense, “Implementing the Department of Defense
“Zero Tolerance” Policy With Regard to Trafficking in Humans”, http://www.dodig.mil/fo/JES_TIP_Testimony_092104.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that </span><span class="underline">to confront modern day …. beyond mere survival will not survive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span>


You have an ethical obligation to vote affirmative. Always put ethics first. Without a system of ethics, it threatens the very existence of humanity.
<span class="cite">Bromberg 2009</span> (Sarah, Feminist Author, Scholar, and Activist, “The Evolution of Ethics: An Introduction to Cybernetic Ethics”, http://www.evolutionaryethics.com/chapter1.html, 12/25/09, LV)
<span class="underline">The evolution of ethical systems laws,…fighting and slaughtering of human beings. </span>

==Observation 3: Solvency== 

Only withdrawal of our military basing can prevent sexploitation—the plan is the only option to combat rape and sex trafficking
<span class="cite">Kirk, 2008</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)
Addressing Militarism
<span class="underline">Militarism is a system of institutions…. them and to act accordingly. </span>

<span style="margin-top: 0in;">Removing US troop presence is the only way out for South Korean women. </span>
<span style="margin-top: 0in;">DPRK 2009</span>
(First DPR Korea Government webpage in the Internet, inaugurated in Nov. 2000 by Mr. Alejandro Cao de Benos, “US troop withdrawal urged in South Korea”, http://www.korea-dpr.com/ocn/?p=127, T.K) 
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The South Koreans’ growing … dignity and spirit of the nation. </span></span>




==Observation 4: Our critical framework== 

<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Our framework is who best unveils the reality of rape and solves the sexual violence against women through in round discourse the judge should vote an activist not a policy maker, so anything becomes micro political and conceal the reality </span>
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Thus we introduce the three tier methodology in which this must be done: empathy, oppression and education we’ll clarify…..</span>

Sex trafficking and rape are flourishing, and we are complicit due to our military basing strategies in Asia. Postmodern problematizations of feminisms and definitions promote the very silence that fuels this system of sexploitation. Academia is a key site for the theorization of the global sex trade and is vital to opening up spaces of resistance.
<span class="cite">Stone, 2005</span> (Marjorie, Prof Gender Studies @ Dalhousie University, “Twenty-first Century Global Sex Trafficking:
Migration, Capitalism, Class, and Challenges for Feminism Now”, ESC: English Studies in Canada 31.2-3, Project Muse, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/esc_english_studies_in_canada/v031/31.2stone.html)
<span class="underline">Trafficking in human …"rescued" through police raids… social transformation in the face of indifference or opposition. </span>

Our affirmative conception of power relations enables transformative possibilities for emancipation that breaks down the oppressor/oppressed dichotomy and opens up space for alternative voices and silenced perspectives
<span class="cite">White</span>, JD @ Harvard Law, <span class="cite">1992</span> (Lucie, 77 Cornell L. Rev. 1499, Sept)
The second reason that Foucault's picture of power is so important to progressive advocates is that it has opened up new possibilities in the political practice of relatively disempowered groups. __The conventional theory of power …. microdynamics of everyday life.__
Even if representing Others “from above” risks colonialism, our acknowledgement of our complicity in oppression (e.g. the imperialism of the US) reverses the power equation and enables counter-hegemonic resistance
<span class="cite">Kothari</span>, Prof Post Colonial Studiees @ St Xaviers, <span class="cite">1998</span> (Rita, interventions, V1 N1, p35-6)
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">If a member of the ‘</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">….</span>tread this path. </span>

Finally, it is the very discourse of this debate rounds that functions to map out logics of domination and solve oppression and enable resistance
<span class="cite">Cuomo 2002</span> (Chris, Associate Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies at the University of Cincinnati, "On Ecofeminist Philosophy", Ethics & the Environment, Vol #7, #2, Project MUSE, LV)
<span class="underline">Talk of a logic of domination …..ethical engagement and improvement</span>





=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]