Plan: The United States federal government should reduce its military presence in Afghanistan to a level consistent with counterterrorism.


Contention One is Hegemony

We’re not leaving in 2011, but the deadline itself is seen as withdrawal
Rogin, 10 - staff writer for Foreign Policy, Prior to that, Josh covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly. Josh has also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution (Josh, “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/29,http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights)


When General David Petraeus testifies today on Capitol Hill, his main job will be to carefully define the timeline for the beginning of America's exit from Afghanistan, a timeline that has stakeholders in Washington and throughout the region confused and concerned.
"As the President has stated, July 2011 is the point at which we will begin a transition phase in which the Afghan government will take more and more responsibility for its own security,"Petraeus wrote in his advanced questions submitted to the Senate Armed Services Committee and obtained by The Cable. "As the President has also indicated, July 2011 is not a date when we will be rapidly withdrawing our forces and -switching off the lights and closing the door behind us."
His job will also be to defend President Obama's decision to set a public date for the beginning of the withdrawal in the first place, by arguing that having a time line in the public discussion helps pressure the Afghans to move faster toward being able to govern and secure their country on their own.
"I believe there was value in sending a message of urgency -- July 2011... But it is important that July 2011 be seen for what it is: the date when a process begins, in which the reduction of US forces must be based on the conditions at the time, and not a date when the U.S. heads for the exits," he wrote to the committee. He stressed that multiple times that the pace of the drawdown would be "conditions based."
But even in his own writing to the committee, Petraeus acknowledged that the enemy, the Taliban and other insurgents in Afghanistan, are waiting out the coalition and biding their time until foreign forces decide to leave.
"Insurgent leaders view their tactical and operational losses in 2010 as inevitable and acceptable. The Taliban believe they can outlast the Coalition's will to fight and believe this strategy will be effective despite short-term losses. The Taliban also believe they can sustain momentum and maintain operational capacity," he wrote.
One of the main enablers of any U.S. exit is the development of the Afghan National Security Forces, which has not gone at the pace the coalition had hoped. Petraeus wrote that he would review the situation of the ANSF within four months of assuming command, if confirmed.
As of the latest review, only 5 out of 19 Afghan National Army brigades can function without a majority of their functions supported by the U.S., according to Petraeus, and only 2 out of 7 major headquarters can function properly without significant coalition support. As of June 27, there are 7,261 ANA troops in the city of Kandahar and 6,794 Afghan soldiers in Helmand province, Petraeus wrote.
He also said that a comprehensive plan to reintegrate some Taliban fighters is under final review with President Hamid Karzai and "offers the potential to reduce violence and provide realistic avenues to assimilate Pashtun insurgents back into Afghanistan society."
Petraeus promised to take a look at the rules of engagement that U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan feel are tying their hands in the fight, but he didn't say whether he was leaning toward changing them or not.
Meanwhile, confusion over the president's timeline persists both in Washington and abroad as interested parties try to interpret the July 2011 date in a way that serves their own political interests.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-CA, said Monday that there would be "a serious drawdown" next summer, seemingly getting ahead of the administration in an effort to appease the liberal wing of her caucus, which is threatening to not support more funding for the war.
Two of the committee members Petraeus will face today, Sens. John McCain, R-AZ, and Lindsey Graham, R-SC, held a press conference Thursday to announce their opposition to setting any public date, no matter what the caveats.
Foreign leaders are especially confused, particularly the Afghan and Pakistani governments, who see a difference between public promises of drawdowns and private assurances from the administration that the July 2011 date would not precipitate large scale troop reductions.
One high level diplomatic source said that Pakistani and Afghan leaders believe that they were told by National Security Advisor Jim Jonesthat there was not going to be a big withdrawal and the there would be "no reduction in commitment" in July 2011.
But regardless of whether the administration sent mixed messages, the nuance of their time line policy has been misunderstood or ignored in the region, as various actors start to plan strategies with the expectation that U.S. troops are leaving.
"In retrospect, despite all the caveats, it was a mistake to put such a date certain for the beginning of withdrawal," said Shuja Nawaz, director of the South Asia Center at the Atlantic Council. "The word beginning was lost and it strengthens the ability of different interests to hedge, which is exactly what they've been doing."


Counterinsurgency is overstretching the military and overall leadership – counterterrorism focus is key to stop rising challengers
Kretkowski, 10 – Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog),http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)

Over the winter break I had an epiphany about the interrelation of U.S. hard and soft power: I now oppose a counterinsurgency (COIN)strategy in Afghanistan and advocate a purely counterterror(CT) strategy (PDF link) there instead.
Blame history—or histories—that I've read recently, starting with Livy's works on early Rome (books I-V) last spring and Donald Kagan's The Peloponnesian War at the end of 2009. I've taken occasional dips back into Robert Kaplan's Warrior Politics and his source materials (Churchill, the Federalists, Machiavelli, Sun Tzu, and several others).
What I've taken from that reading is that the U.S. must pull back from its current efforts to remake Iraq and Afghanistan in the image of a Western democracy, or risk long-term political and economic exhaustion.
What follows is not an argument about morality, and readers may find much of it amoral. It is about making cold-blooded political andeconomic calculations about where U.S. national interests will lie in the next decade. They do not lie in an open-ended COIN mission.
The history of the Peloponnesian War is particularly relevant here. Athens began fighting Sparta with the resources of an empire and thousands of talents of silver in the bank—enough to fight expensive, far-flung naval and land campaigns for three years without lasting financial consequences.
Athens was rich, and if peace with Sparta had come by the end of the third year, Athens would have continued to prosper and rule over much of the Mediterranean. (Athens had a "hard"—conquered or cowed—empire as opposed to the "soft" empire of alliances and treaties the U.S. currently has.)
But the war with Sparta dragged on for decades, despite occasional peace overtures by both sides. By war's end—despite the spoils of battle and increased taxes and tribute extracted from its shrinking dominion—Athens was broke, depopulated by fighting and plague, bereft of its empire, and could no longer project power into the Mediterranean. Where its former interests ranged from Black Sea Turkey to southern Italy, it spent decades as a small-bore power and never regained its former strength or influence.
I worry that the U.S. is similarly locked into an open-ended commitment to democratize a nation that is of regional rather than global importance—a parallel to Athens convincing itself that it had to conquer distant, militarily insignificant Sicily.
"Winning" in Afghanistan
The U.S. could "win" in Afghanistan where victory is defined as a stable, legitimate central government that can project power within its own borders. I don't doubt that the U.S. and its allies could accomplish this given enough time and resources. But I think—as many COIN experts also do—that it will take at least another decade or more of blood and treasure to produce such a result, if ever.
Of course I'd like to see the results of a successful COIN campaign: a stable democracy, women's rights, and general prosperity for Afghans, who among all Asia's peoples surely deserve those things. I certainly want to end al-Qa'ida's ability to operate freely in South Asia and elsewhere.
The U.S. is the only country that would both conceive of these missions and attempt to carry them out. But goals beyond keeping al-Qa'ida on the run don't serve the long-term interests of the U.S., and I am more interested in regaining and preserving U.S. hard power than I am in the rewards that would come from "winning" a lengthy COIN war.
I fear the U.S. people and government becoming exhausted from the costs of a lengthy COIN effort, just as they are already exhausted from(and have largely forgotten about) the Iraq war. I worry that if this fatigue sits in, the U.S. will abandon foreign-policy leadership as it has done periodically throughout history.
This outcome would be worse than a resurgent Taliban, worse than Afghan women and men being further oppressed, and worse than al-Qa'ida having plentiful additional caves to plot in.
Here are some signs of an exhaustion of U.S. power: The U.S. is already overextended, with commitments in Iraq (shrinking for now), Afghanistan (expanding), Yemen (pending) and Iran (TBD). At home, the U.S. economy remains feeble and in the long term is increasingly hostage to other nations for goods and services it no longer produces (and increasingly, no longer can produce).
Even more worrisome is the U.S. credit situation. The wars, and much other U.S. government spending, are now heavily underwritten by other countries' purchases of debt the U.S. issues. It has borrowed trillions from foreign countries and especially China, which continues its steady, highly rational policy of promoting exports while freeriding under the American security umbrella (just as the U.S. once rode for free beneath Britain's).
Over time, those countries accrue enough debt to have a say in U.S. policies that may threaten the dollar's value, which is why you now see high U.S. officials flying to Beijing to soothe PRC nerves and explain why America keeps borrowing money.
At home, there are few resources to apply following a major disaster, such as a Katrina-style hurricane or a major earthquake.
The U.S. needs to start rebuilding its reserves—of capital, of credit, of political goodwill abroad, of military force—to be ready for these and more serious crises, for which we currently have few resources to spare. Such challenges may involve humanitarian crises (think Darfur, a Rwanda-style genocide, Indian Ocean tsunamis); Latin American instability (Mexico, Venezuela, post-Castro Cuba); rogue-state nuclear development (Iran, North Korea); or complex challenges from a rising power (China, a reinvigorated Russia).


Our arguments are especially true with Obama’s recent troops surge – now is a key time for the plan
Kemp, 9/7 (Danny, Defense News, “Overstretched West Needs New Afghan Strategy: IISS,” http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?c=MID&s=TOP&i=4769295 9/7/10)

LONDON - Western powers must change strategy in Afghanistan, focusing on al-Qaida militants and cutting troop numbers instead of pursuing failed attempts at nation-building, a top think-tank said Sept. 7.
Urging a major rethink of President Obama's surge policy, the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies said the international community was "pinned down" as the war entered its 10th year.
"The counter-insurgency strategy is too ambitious," IISS director John Chipman said at the launch of the "Strategic Survey 2010," the institute's annual report on the global security situation.
Foreign forces should now pursue talks with local Taliban insurgents, target al-Qaida extremists who pose a global threat, and foster a more federal Afghanistan that recognizes the country's ethnic divisions, he said.
"As the military surge reaches its peak and begins to wind down, it may become necessary and is probably advisable for outside powers to move to a containment and deterrence policy to deal with the international terrorist threat from the Afghan-Pakistan border regions," he said.
Obama has recently appeared to step back from a pledge that U.S. forces would begin withdrawing from Afghanistan in July 2011. He hasalready deployed 30,000 extra troops as part of Washington's new counter-insurgency strategy.
But the IISS said it had become "increasingly questionable" whether big goals such as beating back the Taliban, building an Afghan government and security forces and eliminating corruption could be achieved.
There were widespread concerns that the presence of around 150,000 foreign troops in Afghanistan was itself "what sustains and fuels the Taliban fighters," he said.
International forces should return to the original aim of the invasion of Afghanistan after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks - to dismantle Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida network and deny it a safe haven in Afghanistan.
Al-Qaida's main operations had in any case shifted to Pakistan's troubled tribal areas bordering Afghanistan, Chipman said, calling for the West to engage more with regional powers including Pakistan and India.
"For Western states to be pinned down militarily and psychologically (in Afghanistan) will not be in the service of their wider political and security interests," Chipman added.
The need for a new policy is part of a wider picture left by the aftermath of the global financial crisis and by shifts in the balance of power, the 432-page IISS report said.
It pointed to a group of "newly energized middle powers" including Turkey, Brazil, South Korea and the United Arab Emirates that were trying to extend their clout in their regions.
"With economies and nerves frayed, and the nationalization of foreign policy all the rage, the appetite for very ambitious collective long-term political-military goals is limited in the West," according to the report.
Turkey and Brazil tried to help resolve Iran's stand-off with Western nations over its nuclear goals, while South Korea and the United Arab Emirates were involved with North Korea and Iran respectively, it said.
Australia, Indonesia and South Korea were promoting regional cooperation and "may in time become a diplomatic force to be reckoned with" against the expansion of Chinese power, it added.
The report said China and India both continued to grow in self-confidence, though the Asian giants still faced "uncomfortable strategic contact" on their border, particularly in Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Myanmar.
China's confidence was bolstered by riding out the financial crisis more quickly than other countries, though Beijing faced growing expectations to play a role in addressing world challenges, it said.


Afghanistan is a quagmire of attrition warfare sapping our morale and readiness.

Kuhner, 9 - the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic)


America is losing the war in Afghanistan. Rather than change course, President Obama is sending 21,000 additional U.S. troops. This will bring the total to 68,000 American soldiers fighting in Afghanistan, bolstering coalition forces to 110,000.
The troop surge, however, will not work. Afghanistan has become Mr. Obama's Vietnam - a protracted quagmire draining precious American blood and treasure. August was the deadliest month for U.S. forces, with 47 soldiers killed by Taliban insurgents. More than 300 coalition troops have died in 2009. This is the highest toll since the war began in 2001, and there are still four months to go.
The tide of battle has turned against the West. The Taliban is resurgent. It has reasserted control over its southern stronghold in Kandahar.The Taliban is launching devastating attacks in the western and northern parts of the country - formerly stable areas. U.S. casualties are soaring. The morale of coalition forces is plummeting. Most of our allies - with the exception of the Canadians and the British - are reluctant to engage the Islamist militants. American public support for the war is waning.
The conflict has dragged on for nearly eight years. (U.S. involvement in World War II was four years, World War I less than one.) Yet, America's strategic objectives remain incoherent and elusive.
The war's initial aim was to topple the Taliban and eradicate al Qaeda bases from Afghan territory. Those goals have been achieved. Washington should have declared victory and focused on the more important issue: preventing Islamic fundamentalists from seizing power in Pakistan, along with its nuclear arsenal.
Instead, America is engaged in futile nation-building. Mr. Obama, like President George W. Bush before him, believes Afghanistan must be transformed by erecting a strong central government, democracy and a modern economy. Washington argues this will prevent terrorism from taking root and bring about lasting "stability."
Hence, following a recent reassessment of the war by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, U.S. commander in Afghanistan, the Obama administration is contemplating deploying 20,000 to 40,000 U.S. troops - on top of the 21,000 already pledged. Moreover, billions have been spent building irrigation canals, schools, hospitals and factories. Civilian advisers are being sent to encourage farmers to grow other cash crops besides opium poppies. Western aid money has been used to establish a massive Afghan army, a large police force and a swollen government bureaucracy.
Gen. McChrystal said this week that the situation is "serious," but not impossible. He still believes victory is within reach. His new strategy is to protect Afghan civilians from Taliban attacks. He also wants to create a lucrative jobs programs and improve local government services. The goal is to win the "hearts and minds" of the Afghan people. Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, says we must combat Afghanistan's "culture of poverty." Call it humanitarian war through social engineering.
Mr. Obama's policy will result in a major American defeat - one that will signal the end of America as a superpower and expose us to the world as a paper tiger. Afghanistan is the graveyard of empires. The mighty British and Russian armies were humiliated in drawn-out guerrilla campaigns. The country's mountainous geography and primitive tribal culture are ideally suited for insurgent warfare. By sending in more troops, Washington is playing right into the Taliban's hands: We are enabling the Taliban to pick off our forces one by one as they wage a campaign of attrition.
The Taliban blend with the local population, making it almost impossible for U.S. forces to distinguish combatants from civilians. American counterinsurgency efforts are thus alienating some of the locals. Initially welcomed as liberators, we are now viewed in some quarters as occupiers. Moreover, much of the West's aid money is siphoned off by greedy politicians in Kabul.
President Hamid Karzai's government is corrupt, venal and ineffective. It barely controls one-third of the country. It is despised by many Afghans for its brutality and incompetence. In addition, Mr. Karzai's vice-presidential running mate is a drug trafficker.
The West's efforts to forge a cohesive national state based on federalism and economic reconstruction have failed. Warlords are increasingly asserting power in the provinces. The country is fractured along tribal and ethnic lines. The center cannot hold: Afghanistan remains mired in anarchy, blood feuds and weak, decentralized rule.
U.S. troops should be deployed to defend U.S. national interests. Their lives should never be squandered for an experiment in liberal internationalism. In fact, such a policy is morally grotesque and strategically reckless.
Mr. Obama should quickly withdraw most U.S. forces from Afghanistan. American air power and small, flexible Special Forces units are more than enough to wipe out al Qaeda terrorists. The Taliban is too hated to reoccupy the country - unless our huge military and economic footprint drives numerous Afghans into the evil, welcoming arms of extremists.


This will obliterate hegemony
Pyne, 9 - Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/)


Since we invaded Iraq six and a half years ago and Afghanistan eight years ago, we have lost nearly 7,000 American soldiers and contractors killed in action with tens of thousands more severely wounded at the cost of a trillion dollars thus far. October has been the single deadliest month for US forces since the war began. It shouldn’t take a military strategist to realize that after fighting a war for over eight years without any real idea how to win, it might be time to consider a drastic change in strategy. This should include a sober assessment of the cost/benefit analysis of staying and fighting at a rising cost in American blood and treasure versus conserving our military strength and bringing our troops home to defend America from terrorist attack.
The Soviets fought an eight year long war in Afghanistan before finally realizing that victory was not a possibility in a conflict which some say began a chain of events that resulted in the collapse of the Evil Empire thanks to Reagan’s support of proxy forces against the Soviet invaders. If the Soviet Union could not win after eight years of fighting in Afghanistan, what makes our leaders think that we can? The longer we keep large numbers of our troops fighting no-win counterinsurgency wars of attrition in Iraq and Afghanistan, the weaker and more vulnerable we will become to the point where eventually the American Empire, as some call it, may decline precipitously or perhaps evencollapse altogether. Worse yet, America’s increasing military weakness highlighted further by Obama’s ongoing demolition of our nuclear deterrent might invite a catastrophic attack from our from our Sino-Russian alliance enemies. Already some of our retired generals have stated that they believe our Army and Marine Corps ground forces have been broken by their over-deployment in the desert sands of Iraq andAfghanistan.
If the Soviet Union could not win after eight years of fighting in Afghanistan, what makes our leaders think that we can? The longer we keep large numbers of our troops bogged down fighting two no-win counterinsurgency wars of attrition in Iraq and Afghanistan, the weaker and more vulnerable we will become to the point where eventually the American Empire, as some call it, may decline precipitously or perhaps even collapse altogether. Worse yet, America’s increasing military weakness highlighted further by Obama’s ongoing demolition of our nuclear deterrent, might invite a catastrophic attack from our from our Sino-Russian alliance enemies.
Already some of our retired generals have stated that they believe our Army and Marine Corps ground forces have been broken by their over-deployment in the desert sands of Iraq andAfghanistan. This high tempo of deployments has resulted in much of our military equipment to break down while procurement and readiness are at their lowest levels over the past quarter century. Our national security always suffers when we get bogged down in wars where our troops are asked to bleed and die, but are not permitted by our political leaders to win. Our brave soldiers should never be allowed to sacrifice in this way without the hope of victory! The best way to support our troops is to bring them home to their families and make a commitment that we will not let a week go by without thanking a soldier for their willingness to risk life and limb to defend us all.
What is it going to take to get our political leaders to realize that the costs of staying and fighting the long war in Iraq and Afghanistan greatly outweigh the costs of redeploying out of theater? The same voices we hear calling for us to send another 40,000 to 100,000 troops to Afghanistan are the ones that would have called for us to keep surging and fighting in Vietnam in perpetuity at the cost of hundreds of thousands of our soldiers lives. It didn’t make sense to do that then and it doesn’t make sense to do so now. Ronald Reagan won the Cold War against the Evil Soviet Empire in part by employing proxies to fight and win our battles for us. We need to learn from Reagan and re-employ a strategy of arming and supporting proxies both states and insurgent movements to fight our wars so our troops don’t have to.
America needs to conserve its military strength for a time when we they may be called upon to fight great power enemies, not waste it bogged down fighting Vietnams in the desert as we have been doing the past several years. Until we do, we will remain in a state of imperial overstretch and strategic paralysis with no reserve forces to fight new hypothetical wars of necessity and with a continuing window of vulnerability which our enemies will undoubtedly continue to exploit. North Korea has already been exploiting our window of vulnerability with their ongoing nuclear missile buildup as has the Islamic Republic of Iran is doing with its near imminent development of weaponized nukes. Even Russia has done so with their invasion of US-ally Georgia this past year.


Hegemony outweighs – superior to every alternative
Kagan 7 [Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Hoover Institution - Stanford U, in Policy Review, No 144,http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]


Finally, there is the United States itself. As a matter of national policy stretching back across numerous administrations, Democratic and Republican, liberal and conservative, Americans have insisted on preserving regional predominance in East Asia; the Middle East; the Western Hemisphere; until recently, Europe; and now, increasingly, Central Asia. This was its goal after the Second World War, and since the end of the Cold War, beginning with the first Bush administration and continuing through the Clinton years, the United States did not retract but expanded its influence eastward across Europe and into the Middle East, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. Even as it maintains its position as the predominant global power, it is also engaged in hegemonic competitions in these regions with China in East and Central Asia, with Iran in the Middle East and Central Asia, and with Russia in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and the Caucasus. The United States, too, is more of a traditional than a postmodern power, and though Americans are loath to acknowledge it, they generally prefer their global place as “No. 1” and are equally loath to relinquish it. Once having entered a region, whether for practical or idealistic reasons, they are remarkably slow to withdraw from it until they believe they have substantially transformed it in their own image. They profess indifference to the world and claim they just want to be left alone even as they seek daily to shape the behavior of billions of people around the globe. The jostling for status and influence among these ambitious nations and would-be nations is a second defining feature of the new post-Cold War international system. Nationalism in all its forms is back, if it ever went away, and so is international competition for power, influence, honor, and status. American predominance prevents these rivalries from intensifying — its regional as well as its global predominance. Were the United Statesto diminish its influence in the regions where it is currently the strongest power, the other nations would settle disputes as great and lesser powers have done in the past: sometimes through diplomacy and accommodation but often through confrontation and wars of varying scope, intensity, and destructiveness. One novel aspect of such a multipolar world is that most of these powers would possess nuclear weapons. That could make wars between them less likely, or it could simply make them more catastrophic.It is easy but also dangerous to underestimate the role the United States plays in providing a measure of stability in the world even as it also disrupts stability. For instance,the United States is the dominant naval power everywhere, such that other nations cannot compete with it even in their home waters. They either happily or grudgingly allow the United States Navy to be the guarantor of international waterways and trade routes, of international access to markets and raw materials such as oil. Even when the United States engages in a war, it is able to play its role as guardian of the waterways. In a more genuinely multipolar world, however, it would not. Nations would compete for naval dominance at least in their own regions and possibly beyond. Conflict between nations would involve struggles on the oceans as well as on land. Armed embargos, of the kind used in World War i and other major conflicts, would disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible. Such order as exists in the world rests not merely on the goodwill of peoples but on a foundation provided by American power. Even the European Union, that great geopolitical miracle, owes its founding to American power, for without it the European nations after World War ii would never have felt secure enough to reintegrate Germany. Most Europeans recoil at the thought, but even today Europe ’s stability depends on the guarantee, however distant and one hopes unnecessary, that the United States could step in to check any dangerous development on the continent. In a genuinely multipolar world, that would not be possible without renewing the danger of world war.
People who believe greater equality among nations would be preferable to the present American predominance often succumb to a basic logical fallacy. They believe the order the world enjoys today exists independently of American power. They imagine that in a world where American power was diminished, the aspects of international order that they like would remain in place. But that ’s not the way it works. International order does not rest on ideas and institutions. It is shaped by configurations of power. The international order we know today reflects the distribution of power in the world since World War II, and especially since the end of the Cold War. A different configuration of power, a multipolar world in which the poles were Russia, China, the United States, India, and Europe, would produce its own kind of order, with different rules and norms reflecting the interests of the powerful states that would have a hand in shaping it. Would that international order be an improvement? Perhaps for Beijing and Moscow it would. But it is doubtful that it would suit the tastes of enlightenment liberals in the United States and Europe.
The current order, of course, is not only far from perfect but also offers no guarantee against major conflict among the world ’s great powers.Even under the umbrella of unipolarity, regional conflicts involving the large powers may erupt. War could erupt between China and Taiwan and draw in both the United States and Japan. War could erupt between Russia and Georgia, forcing the United States and its European allies to decide whether to intervene or suffer the consequences of a Russian victory. Conflict between India and Pakistan remains possible, as does conflict between Iran and Israel or other Middle Eastern states. These, too, could draw in other great powers, including the UnitedStates. Such conflicts may be unavoidable no matter what policies the United States pursues. But they are more likely to erupt if the UnitedStates weakens or withdraws from its positions of regional dominance. This is especially true in East Asia, where most nations agree that a reliable American power has a stabilizing and pacific effect on the region. That is certainly the view of most of China ’s neighbors. But even China, which seeks gradually to supplant the United States as the dominant power in the region, faces the dilemma that an American withdrawal could unleash an ambitious, independent, nationalist Japan.
In Europe, too, the departure of the United States from the scene — even if it remained the world’s most powerful nation — could be destabilizing. It could tempt Russia to an even more overbearing and potentially forceful approach to unruly nations on its periphery. Although some realist theorists seem to imagine that the disappearance of the Soviet Union put an end to the possibility of confrontation between Russia and the West, and therefore to the need for a permanent American role in Europe, history suggests that conflicts in Europe involving Russia are possible even without Soviet communism. If the United States withdrew from Europe — if it adopted what some call a strategy of “offshore balancing” — this could in time increase the likelihood of conflict involving Russia and its near neighbors, which could in turn draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances.
It is also optimistic to imagine that a retrenchment of the American position in the Middle East and the assumption of a more passive, “offshore” role would lead to greater stability there. The vital interest the United States has in access to oil and the role it plays in keeping access open to other nations in Europe and Asia make it unlikely that American leaders could or would stand back and hope for the best while the powers in the region battle it out. Nor would a more “even-handed” policy toward Israel, which some see as the magic key to unlocking peace, stability, and comity in the Middle East, obviate the need to come to Israel ’s aid if its security became threatened. That commitment, paired with the American commitment to protect strategic oil supplies for most of the world, practically ensures a heavy American military presence in the region, both on the seas and on the ground.
The subtraction of American power from any region would not end conflict but would simply change the equation. In the Middle East, competition for influence among powers both inside and outside the region has raged for at least two centuries. The rise of Islamic fundamentalism doesn ’t change this. It only adds a new and more threatening dimension to the competition, which neither a sudden end to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians nor an immediate American withdrawal from Iraq would change. The alternative to American predominance in the region is not balance and peace. It is further competition. The region and the states within it remain relatively weak. A diminution of American influence would not be followed by a diminution of other external influences. One could expect deeper involvement by both China and Russia, if only to secure their interests. And one could also expect the more powerful states of the region, particularly Iran, to expand and fill the vacuum. It is doubtful that any American administration would voluntarily take actions that could shift the balance of power in the Middle East further toward Russia, China, or Iran. The world hasn ’t changed that much. An American withdrawal from Iraq will not return things to “normal” or to a new kind of stability in the region. It will produce a new instability, one likely to draw the United States back in again. The alternative to American regional predominance in the Middle East and elsewhere is not a new regional stability. In an era of burgeoning nationalism, the future is likely to be one of intensified competition among nations and nationalist movements. Difficult as it may be to extend American predominance into the future, no one should imagine that a reduction of American power or a retraction of American influence and global involvement will provide an easier path.


Independently, Overstretch of the military collapses hegemony and increases risk of nuclear miscalculation
Florig, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, 10 (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/ Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_ code1259934.pdf?abstractid= 1548783&mirid=1)


There is an even larger question than whether the U.S. will remain the hegemonic state within a western dominated system. How long will the West remain hegemonic in the global system?25 Since Spengler the issue of the decline of the West has been debated. It would be hard to question current western dominance of virtually every global economic, political, military, or ideological system today. In some ways the domination of the West seems even more firm than it was in the past because the West is no longer a group of fiercely competing states but a much more cohesive force. In the era of western domination, breakdown of the rule of each hegemonic state has come because of competition from powerful rival western states at the core of the system leading to system-wide war. The unique characteristic of the Cold War and particularly the post-Cold War system is that the core capitalist states are now to a large degree politically united and increasingly economically integrated. In the 21st century, two factors taking place outside the West seem more of a threat to the reproduction to the hegemony of the American state and the western system than conflict between western states: 1. resistance to western hegemony in the Muslim world and other parts of the subordinated South and 2. the rise of newly powerful or reformed super states,. Relations between the core and periphery have already undergone one massive transformation in the 20th century—decolonization. The historical significance of decolonization was overshadowed somewhat by the emergence of the Cold War and the nuclear age. Recognition of its impact was dampened somewhat by the subsequent relative lack of change of fundamental economic relations between core and periphery. But one of the historical legacies of decolonization is that ideological legitimation has become more crucial in operating the global system. The manufacture of some level of consent, particularly among the elite in the periphery has to some degree replaced brute domination. Less raw force is necessary but in return a greater burden of ideological and cultural legitimation is required. Now it is no longer enough for colonials to obey, willing participants must believe. Therefore, cultural and ideological challenges to the foundations of the liberal capitalist world view assume much greater significance. Thus the resurgence of Islamic fundamentalism, ethnic nationalism, and even social democracy in Latin America as ideologies of opposition have increasing significance in a system dependent on greater levels of willing consent. As Ayoob suggests, the sustained resistance within the Islamic world to western hegemony may have a “demonstration effect” on other southern states with similar grievances against the West.26 The other new dynamic is the re-emergence of great states that at one time or another have been brought low by the western hegemonic system. China, in recent centuries low on the international division of labor, was in some ways a classic case of a peripheral state, or today a semi-peripheral state. But its sheer size, its rapid growth, its currency reserves, its actual and potential markets, etc. make it a major power and a potential future counter hegemon. India lags behind China, but has similar aspirations. Russia has fallen from great power to semi-peripheral status since the collapse of the Soviet empire, but its energy resources and the technological skills of its people make recovery of its former greatness possible. No one knows exactly what the resurgence of Asia portends for the future. However, just as half a century ago global decolonization was a blow to western domination, so the shift in economic production to Asia will redefine global power relations throughout the 21st century. Classical theory of hegemonic cycle is useful if not articulated in too rigid a form. Hegemonic systems do not last forever; they do have a life span. The hegemonic state cannot maintain itself as the fastest growing major economy forever and thus eventually will face relative decline against some major power or powers. The hegemon faces recurrent challenges both on the periphery and from other major powers who feel constrained by the hegemon’s power or are ambitious to usurp its place. Techniques of the application of military force and ideological control may become more sophisticated over time, but so too do techniques of guerilla warfare and ideological forms of resistance such as religious fundamentalism, nationalism, and politicization of ethnic identity. World war may not be imminent, but wars on the periphery have become quite deadly, and the threat of the use of nuclear weapons or other WMD by the rising number of powers who possess them looms. The hegemonic state tends to become overstretched, but more importantly the U.S., because of its messianic sense of mission, tends to overreach. Some of the burden the hegemon has to assume is inevitable, but the U.S. is particularly prone to massive miscalculation.

The plan’s rejection of COIN creates a shift towards selective engagement that sustains presence globally
Gventer, 9 - Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1, http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html)

An effort to conduct "counterinsurgency" in Afghanistan is not just a costly business for still-unspecified strategic returns. It is likely to alsoprolong the U.S. defense establishment's preoccupation with military-led nation-building in unfamiliar cultures and perpetuate the deeply problematic assumption that chronic societal failure and social pathologies around the world are a form of warfare. This notion is built in part on what seems to be an oversimplified and glamorized—and thus dangerously misleading—pop history about the 'surge' in Iraq and the role it played in the still-unfolding outcomes there. The opportunity for the new strategy in Afghanistan was to form the beginning of a new era of American restraint in its foreign policy—one based on confidence in America's own values, protection of its borders, strong intelligence capabilities, and selective engagement of a strong, credible U.S. military capable of applying overwhelming force.
It will be unfortunate if President Obama instead persists in the false promise of "counterinsurgency" theory, which merely courts permanent national insolvency and hastening American decline, expending vast quantities of national blood and treasure to protect nothing but America's own illusions.


We solve – counterterrorism focus creates sustainable presence and ensures consistency
Stewart, 9 - Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)


The best Afghan policy would be to reduce the number of foreign troops from the current level of 90,000 to far fewer – perhaps 20,000. In that case, two distinct objectives would remain for the international community: development and counter-terrorism. Neither would amount to the building of an Afghan state or winning a counter-insurgency campaign. A reduction in troop numbers and a turn away from state-building should not mean total withdrawal: good projects could continue to be undertaken in electricity, water, irrigation, health, education, agriculture, rural development and in other areas favoured by development agencies. Even a light US presence could continue to allow for aggressive operations against Al Qaeda terrorists, in Afghanistan, who plan to attack the United States. The US has successfully prevent Al Qaeda from re-establishing itself since 2001 (though the result has only been to move bin Laden across the border.). The US military could also (with other forms of assistance) support the Afghan military to prevent the Taliban from seizing a city or taking over the country.
These twin objectives will require a very long-term presence, as indeed is almost inevitable in a country which is as poor, as fragile and traumatized as Afghanistan (and which lacks the internal capacity at the moment to become independent of Foreign aid or control its territory). But a long-term presence will in turn mean a much lighter and more limited presence (if it is to retain US domestic support). We should not control and cannot predict the future of Afghanistan. It may in the future become more violent, or find a decentralised equilibrium or a new national unity, but if its communities continue to want to work with us, we can, over 30 years, encourage the more positive trends in Afghan society and help to contain the more negative.
Such a policy can seem strained, unrealistic, counter-intuitive and unappealing. They appear to betray the hopes of Afghans who trusted us and to allow the Taliban to abuse district towns. No politician wants to be perceived to have underestimated, or failed to address, a terrorist threat; or to write off the ‘blood and treasure’ that we have sunk into Afghanistan; or to admit defeat. Americans are particularly unwilling to believe that problems are insoluble; Obama’s motto is not ‘no we can’t’; soldiers are not trained to admit defeat or to say a mission is impossible. And to suggest that what worked in Iraq won’t work in Afghanistan requires a detailed knowledge of each country’s past, a bold analysis of the causes of development and a rigorous exposition of the differences, for which few have patience.
The greatest risk of our inflated ambitions and fears, encapsulated in the current surge is that it will achieve the exact opposite of its intentions and in fact precipitate a total withdrawal. The heavier our footprint, and the more costly, the less we are likely to be able to sustain it. Public opinion is already turning against it. Nato allies are mostly staying in Afghanistan simply to please the United States and have little confidence in our objectives or our reasons. Contemporary political culture tends to encourage black and white solutions: either we garrison or we abandon.
While, I strongly oppose troop increases, I equally strongly oppose a total flight. We are currently in danger of lurching from troop increases to withdrawal and from engagement to isolation. We are threatening to provide instant electro-shock therapy followed by abandonment. This is the last thing Afghanistan needs. The international community should aim to provide a patient, tolerant long-term relationship with a country as poor and traumatized as Afghanistan. Judging by comparable countries in the developing world (and Afghanistan is very near the bottom of the UN Human Development index), making Afghanistan more stable, prosperous and humane is a project which will take decades. It is a worthwhile project in the long-term for us and for Afghans butwe will only be able to sustain our presence if we massively reduce our investment and our ambitions and begin to approach Afghanistan more as we do other poor countries in the developing world. The best way of avoiding the mistakes of the 1980s and 1990s – the familiar cycle of investment and abandonment which most Afghan expect and fear and which have contributed so much to instability and danger - is to husband and conserve our resources, limit our objectives to counter-terrorismand humanitarian assistance and work out how to work with fewer troops and less money over a longer period. In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.


Obama will sell the plan as a lighter but permanent commitment– solves confusion over withdrawal deadlines and credibility
Stewart, 10 - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3)


But this moderate tone gains Obama the leverage that Bush lacked. As long as the US asserted that Afghanistan was an existential threat, the front line in the war on terror, and that, therefore, failure was not an option, the US had no leverage over Karzai. The worse Afghanistan behaved—the more drugs it grew and terrorists it fostered—the more money it received. If it sorted out its act, it risked being relegated to a minor charitable recipient like Tajikistan. A senior Afghan official warned me this year “to stop referring to us as a humanitarian crisis: we must be the number one terrorist threat in the world, because if we are not we won’t get any money.” By asserting convincingly that Afghanistan is not the be-all and end-all and that the US could always ultimately withdraw, Obama escapes this codependent trap and regains some leverage over the Afghan government. In his politer words:
It must be clear that Afghans will have to take responsibility for their security, and that America has no interest in fighting an endless war in Afghanistan.
But perhaps even more importantly, defining a more moderate and limited strategy gives him leverage over his own generals. By refusing to endorse or use the language of counterinsurgency in the speech, he escapes their doctrinal logic. By no longer committing the US to defeating the Taliban or state-building, he dramatically reduces the objectives and the costs of the mission. By talking about costs, the fragility of public support, and other priorities, he reminds the generals why this surge must be the last. All of this serves to “cap” the troop increases at current levels and provide the justification for beginning to reduce numbers in 2011.
But the brilliance of its moderate arguments cannot overcome that statement about withdrawal. With seven words, “our troops will begin to come home,” he loses leverage over the Taliban, as well as leverage he had gained over Karzai and the generals. It is a cautious, lawyerly statement, expressed again as “[we will] begin the transfer of our forces out of Afghanistan in July of 2011.” It sets no final exit date or numbers. But the Afghan students who were watching the speech with me ignored these nuances and saw it only as departure.
This may be fatal for Obama’s ambition to “open the door” to the Taliban. The lighter, more political, and less but still robust militarized presence that his argument implies could facilitate a deal with the Taliban, if it appeared semi-permanent. As the President asserted, the Taliban are not that strong. They have nothing like the strength or appeal that they had in 1995. They cannot take the capital, let alone recapture the country. There is strong opposition to their presence, particularly in the center and the north of the country. Their only hope is to negotiate. But the Taliban need to acknowledge this. And the only way they will is if they believe that we are not going to allow the Kabul government to collapse.
Afghanistan has been above all a project not of force but of patience. It would take decades before Afghanistan achieved the political cohesion, stability, wealth, government structures, or even basic education levels of Pakistan. A political settlement requires a reasonably strong permanent government. The best argument against the surge, therefore, was never that a US operation without an adequate Afghan government partner would be unable to defeat the Taliban—though it won’t. Nor that the attempt to strengthen the US campaign will intensify resistance, though it may. Nor because such a deployment of over 100,000 troops at a cost of perhaps $100 billion a year would be completely disproportional to the US’s limited strategic interests and moral obligation in Afghanistan—though that too is true.
Instead, Obama should not have requested more troops because doing so intensifies opposition to the war in the US and Europe and accelerates the pace of withdrawal demanded by political pressures at home. To keep domestic consent for a long engagement we need to limit troop numbers and in particular limit our casualties. The surge is a Mephistophelian bargain, in which the President has gained force but lost time.
What can now be done to salvage the administration’s position? Obama has acquired leverage over the generals and some support from the public by making it clear that he will not increase troop strength further. He has gained leverage over Karzai by showing that he has options other than investing in Afghanistan. Now he needs to regain leverage over the Taliban by showing them that he is not about to abandon Afghanistan and that their best option is to negotiate. In short, he needs to follow his argument for a call strategy to its conclusion. The date of withdrawal should be recast as a time for reduction to a lighter, more sustainable, and more permanent presence. This is what the administration began to do in the days following the speech. As National Security Adviser General James Jones said, “That date is a ‘ramp’ rather than a cliff.” And as Hillary Clinton said in her congressional testimony on December 3, their real aim should be to “develop a long-term sustainable relationship with Afghanistan and Pakistan so that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past, primarily our abandonment of that region.”
A more realistic, affordable, and therefore sustainable presence would not make Afghanistan stable or predictable. It would be merely a small if necessary part of an Afghan political strategy. The US and its allies would only moderate, influence, and fund a strategy shaped and led by Afghans themselves. The aim would be to knit together different Afghan interests and allegiances sensitively enough to avoid alienating independent local groups, consistently enough to regain their trust, and robustly enough to restore the security and justice that Afghans demand and deserve from a national government.
What would this look like in practice? Probably a mess. It might involve a tricky coalition of people we refer to, respectively, as Islamists, progressive civil society, terrorists, warlords, learned technocrats, and village chiefs. Under a notionally democratic constitutional structure, it could be a rickety experiment with systems that might, like Afghanistan’s neighbors, include strong elements of religious or military rule. There is no way to predict what the Taliban might become or what authority a national government in Kabul could regain. Civil war would remain a possibility. But an intelligent, long-term, and tolerant partnership with the United States could reduce the likelihood of civil war and increase the likelihood of a political settlement. This is hardly the stuff of sound bites and political slogans. But it would be better for everyone than boom and bust, surge and flight. With the right patient leadership, a political strategy could leave Afghanistan in twenty years’ time more prosperous, stable, and humane than it is today. That would be excellent for Afghans and good for the world.
Meanwhile, Obama’s broader strategic argument must not be lost. He has grasped that the foreign policy of the president should not consist in a series of extravagant, brief, Manichaean battles, driven by exaggerated fears, grandiloquent promises, and fragile edifices of doctrine. Instead the foreign policy of a great power should be the responsible exercise of limited power and knowledge in concurrent situations of radical uncertainty. Obama, we may hope, will develop this elusive insight. And then it might become possible to find the right places in which to deploy the wealth, the courage, and the political capital of the United States. We might hope in South Asia, for example, for a lighter involvement in Afghanistan but a much greater focus on Kashmir.1


Contention two is insurgency

Counterinsurgency is impossible in Afghanistan, multiple reasons
Nelson, 9 – former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin)


Q1: General McChrystal is expected to request up to 40,000 additional troops and recommend a greater focus on counterinsurgency operations. Is this approach likely to succeed in strengthening the Afghan state, defeating the Taliban, and advancing America’s fight against terrorism?
A1: Probably not. Counterinsurgency doctrine, or COIN, has captured the hearts and minds of many in the D.C. policy community. Upon close inspection, however, it becomes clear that COIN, at least as applied to Afghanistan, is built on a number of shaky assumptions. Consider:
1. Even if General McChrystal gets all 40,000 troops he has requested, the combined International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF), and Afghan contingent would still number less than 250,000—far fewer than the 670,000 troops the U.S. Army’s own Counterinsurgency Field Manual suggests is necessary to secure a state of Afghanistan’s size.
2. Widespread corruption in the August 20 election has widened the trust gap between the Karzai government and the Afghan people. Because successful counterinsurgency requires a government that is credible and responsive to its citizens, these developments threaten to derail the U.S. and NATO mission. And as our experience in South Vietnam made painfully clear, the White House is usually powerless to force any host nation to enact good-government reforms.
3. General McChrystal’s strategic review emphasizes “population protection” as the key to drying up support for the Taliban. The claim is based on the assumption that insurgencies require the backing, or at least acquiescence, of surrounding communities in order to function. But a recent article in the Washington Post noted that the Taliban rely primarily on foreign, rather than local, funding sources, a fact that suggests that population protection may ultimately do little to diminish the insurgency’s strength.
4. Public support for a counterinsurgency campaign of such massive proportions simply does not exist. Recent polls suggest that over 50 percent of Americans are against sending more troops to Afghanistan. And our European allies are even less enthusiastic about escalating the war. Finally, the COIN framework is built on the larger assumption that eliminating the Taliban and stabilizing Afghanistan is the best use of American resources in the broader effort to combat terrorism. Al Qaeda’s presence in a pre-9/11, Taliban-controlled Afghanistan has convinced many officials that a Taliban takeover would result in al Qaeda’s inevitable return to the state. But al Qaeda already has established itself in Pakistan’s semi-governed spaces. Along with Taliban and other extremist militants, the group enjoys the relative safety of these territories, where Pakistani sovereignty precludes any substantive U.S. ground force. Even if al Qaeda were to reenter Afghanistan sometime in the future, the United States would face the same basic terrorist threats that it does today. Critics will argue that Afghanistan served as a base and planning center for 9/11. True enough; but al Qaeda, in establishing a presence in Pakistan, Somalia, and Yemen has already developed numerous “safe havens.” In short, our overwhelming focus on Afghanistan fails to serve a more nuanced counterterrorism strategy that acknowledges the many other areas in which al Qaeda operates. Q2: So how should the United States approach the war?
A2: We need to reframe our thinking about U.S. goals and the means to achieve them. As outlined above, COIN in Afghanistan is only tenuously linked to counterterrorism, the original purpose of our efforts. The Obama administration should implement a more minimalist policy in the region, one that employs special operations forces and airstrikes to directly target terrorists, especially leaders of cells.
Critics charge that these operations are mere tactical successes, detached from any larger strategy. This is a disingenuous assessment.Targeted strikes do, in fact, serve the greater strategic purpose of disrupting the planning and execution of terrorist attacks. Unlike COIN—which seems to harbor the grandiose notion of eliminating terrorism by transforming societies, regardless of cost—counterterrorism acknowledges that radicalism will always exist and that policymakers should directly seek to contain it.
At the core of this shift is an acknowledgment that our best Afghanistan policy is no better than our best Pakistan policy. ISAF and Afghan forces can do everything imaginable to eliminate Taliban influence in the country, but any effort that does not address the presence of militants in Pakistan’s semi-governed spaces ultimately does little to reduce the threat posed by al Qaeda. At a most basic level, the Obama administration must change the calculus of the Pakistani military and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) with regard to extremists in the country’s northwest. Doing so will force the United States to play a central role in rapprochement between Pakistan and India—and be a fair broker to both parties. What about Afghanistan? Proponents of an “all-in” approach tend to misrepresent a minimalist strategy as complete withdrawal, arguing that the United States abandoned Afghanistan after the Soviet war and that doing so again would plunge the country into anarchy. But few serious analysts are talking about abandoning Afghanistan, and there is no reason to believe that a smaller, more specialized force would not be able to confront any resumption of al Qaeda activity in the country. As far as the Taliban are concerned, there is reason to believe that an ever-larger foreign troop presence simply swells the movement’s ranks (to wit: it has been dismaying to watch increased troop levels correlate with recent Taliban gains). Until the administration can convincingly demonstrate how additional troops will, in fact, support broader national security and counterterrorism goals, the United States is better served by a strategy that minimizes the loss of life and dizzying levels of expenditure that any “all-in” approach would entail.


It’s unwinnable – large footprints drive the Pashtuns to the Taliban
Fuller, 9 – CIA officer for 25 years, former CIA station chief in Kabul and a former vice-chair of the CIA's National Intelligence Council (Graham, Christian Science Monitor, 12/2, "Obama speech: kicking the can down the road in Afghanistan", lexis)


The "objective" situation in Afghanistan remains a mess. The details are well known. Senior commanders acknowledge that we are not now winning hearts and minds in Afghanistan; indeed, we never can, and certainly not at gunpoint.
Most Pashtuns will never accept a US plan for Afghanistan's future. The non-Pashtuns - Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras, etc. - naturally welcome any outside support in what is a virtual civil war. America has inadvertently ended up choosing sides. US forces are perceived by large numbers of Afghans as an occupying army inflicting large civilian casualties. The struggle has now leaked into Pakistan - with even higher stakes.
Obama's policies would seem an unsatisfying compromise among contending arguments. Thirty thousand more troops will not turn the tide; arguably they present more American targets for attack. They will heighten traditional xenophobia against foreigners traipsing through Pashtun villages and homes. It is a fool's errand to persuade the locals in Pashtun territory that the Taliban are the enemy and the US is their friend.
Whatever mixed feelings Pashtuns have toward the Taliban, they know the Taliban remain the single most important element of Pashtun political life; the Taliban will be among them long after Washington tires of this mission.
The strategy of the Bush era envisioned Afghanistan as a vital imperial outpost in a post-Soviet dream world where hundreds of overseas US bases would cement US global hegemony, keeping Russia and China in check and the US on top. That world vision is gone - except to a few Washington diehards who haven't grasped the new emerging global architectures of power, economics, prestige, and influence.
The Taliban will inevitably figure significantly in the governance of almost any future Afghanistan, like it or not. Future Taliban leaders, once rid of foreign occupation, will have little incentive to support global jihadi schemes - they never really have by choice. The Taliban inherited bin Laden as a poison pill from the past when they came to power in 1996 and have learned a bitter lesson about what it means to lend state support to a prominent terrorist group.
The Taliban with a voice in power will have every incentive to welcome foreign money and expertise into the country, including the Pashtun regions - as long as it is not part of a Western strategic package. An austere Islamic regime is not the ideal outcome for Afghanistan, but it is by far the most realistic. To reverse ground realities and achieve a markedly different outcome is not in the cards and will pose the same dilemma to Obama next year.
Meanwhile, Pakistan will never be willing or able to solve Washington's Afghanistan dilemma. Pakistan's own stability has been brought to the very brink by US demands that it solve America's self-created problem in Afghanistan. Pakistan will eventually be forced to resolve Afghanistan itself - but only after the US has gone, and only by making a pact with Taliban forces both inside Afghanistan and in Pakistan itself. Washington will not accept that for now, but it will ultimately be forced to fairly soon. Maybe the Pakistanis can root out bin Laden, but meanwhile, Al Qaeda has extended its autonomous franchises around the world, and terrorists can train and plan almost anywhere in the world; they do not need Afghanistan.
By now, as in so many other elements of the Global War on Terror, the US has become more part of the problem than part of the solution. We are sending troops to defend troops that themselves constitute an affront to Afghan nationalism. Only expeditious American withdrawal from Afghanistan will prevent exacerbation of the problem.


Taliban can recruit faster than we kill—large footprint with an illegitimate government ensures this
Galston, 10 - Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings (William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th,http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)


Are the basic premises of our current policy in Afghanistan fatally flawed?
The fact that I feel compelled to pose this question so soon after the completion of President Obama’s painstaking review reflects the mounting evidence that the results of that policy have fallen far short of expectations.
Let’s begin at the beginning, with Marja. The holy trinity of modern counterinsurgency is clear, hold, and build. Coalition forces are stalled at step one. After the initial military thrust, many Taliban fighters, including mid-level commanders, swooped back in to the area to intimidate local inhabitants who might otherwise be inclined to cooperate with the coalition and Afghan government. Many other Afghanis sympathize with the core Taliban message that we intend to occupy their country for the long-term with the aim of imposing alien cultural, religious, and political values. It is hard to see what will tip this stalemate in our favor, even harder to see how we can hand over governance and security function to the Afghans in Marja any time soon. Brigadier General Frederick Hodges, one of the leading commanders in southern Afghanistan, puts it this way: “You’ve got to have the governance part ready to go. We talked about doing that in Marja but didn’t realize how hard it was to do. Ultimately, it’s up to the Afghans to step forward.” It’s clear that Hodges is not holding his breath. The next shoe to drop was Kandahar.Ever since this Taliban stronghold was identified as a key target, the tension between the U.S. and Afghan governments on this issue has been palpable—so much so that the coalition is now hesitant to call what it has in mind an “offensive.” Just last week, we learned that theoperation scheduled to begin in the spring would fall even farther behind schedule. As The New York Times reports, “The Afghan government has not produced the civilian leadership and trained security forces it was to contribute to the effort, U.S. officials said, and the support from Kandaharis that the United States was counting on Karzai to deliver has not materialized.” Stanley McChrystal, the top commander in Afghanistan, has been admirably frank about a core difficulty: the residents of Kandahar are far from sure that they want the protection we claim to be offering them.
On to Kabul, where President Karzai has reportedly lost faith in the coalition’s ability (and that of his own government) to defeat the Taliban and is secretly maneuvering to strike a separate deal with them. If these reports are correct—and Susan Rice, our UN ambassador, disputed them on Sunday (though, notably, she offered no new evidence in support of her assertion that Karzai remains a committed partner)—two events appear to be fueling his growing disenchantment: senior American officials’ claims that his reelection lacked legitimacy, and President Obama’s December announcement that he intended to begin reducing the number of American troops by July 2011.
One might be tempted to chalk up the extent of our difficulties in Afghanistan to tendentious reporting. I was skeptical myself—that is, until I stumbled across a stunning NATO/ISAF report completed in March. This report summarizes the results of an in-depth survey conducted in nine of the 16 districts in Kandahar Province to which researchers could safely gain access. Here are some of the findings:
Security is viewed everywhere as a major problem. When asked to name the top dangers experienced while traveling on the roads, far more respondents named Afghan National Army and Police checkpoints than roadside bombs, Taliban checkpoints, or criminals. And the Taliban were rated better than ISAF convoys and checkpoints as well.
Corruption is viewed as a widespread problem and is experienced by respondents on a regular basis. In fact, 84 percent say that corruption is the main reason for the current conflict. Corruption erodes confidence in the Afghan government, and fully two-thirds of respondents believe that this corruption forces them to seek alternatives to government services and authority. Chillingly, 53 percent regard the Taliban as “incorruptible.”
The residents of Kandahar overwhelmingly prefer a process of reconciliation to the prospect of continued conflict. Ninety-four percent say that it is better to negotiate with the Taliban than to fight with them, and they see grounds for believing that these negotiations will succeed.Eighty-five percent regard the Taliban as “our Afghan brothers” (a phrase President Karzai repeated word for word in his address to the recent jirga), and 81 percent say that the Taliban would lay down their arms if given jobs.
Our military commanders in Afghanistan talk incessantly about the need to “shape” the political context in a given area before beginning activities with a significant military component—but if their own research is correct, our chances of “shaping” Kandahar any time soon range from slim to none. Based on General McChrystal’s own logic, then, we cannot proceed there because a key requirement for success is not fulfilled. And if we can’t prevail in Kandahar, then we’re stuck with the Taliban as a long-term military presence and political force in Afghanistan.


The first impact is Pakistan. Counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents across the border and will collapse Pakistan
Akhtar, 10- professor of international relations, and a senior analyst & writer. He was the dean of faculty of management, Baluchistan university, and former chairman of International Relations Department, Karachi university (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1)


If it is a war against extremists and militancy inside Pakistan, it is a civil war because its origins stem from the US, NATO occupation of neighboring Afghanistan. The conflict should be seen as an extension of the ongoing resistance of the Afghan people to alien domination. It is inaccurate to say that the US invaded Afghanistan because of the 9/11 attacks by Al-Qaeda. Former BBC correspondent George Arney reported on September 18, 2001, that Niaz Naik, the former Pakistani foreign secretary, had told him that he was informed by US officials at a UN-sponsored international contact group on Afghanistan in Berlin during July that year that unless Osama bin Laden were handed over swiftly, America would take military action to kill or capture both Bin Laden and Mullah Omar. The wider objective, however, was to topple the Taliban regime and install a transitional government under King Mohammad Zahir Shah. The invasion was to take place in mid-October 2001. Mr. Naik went on to say that he doubted that the US would have abandoned its plan to invade Afghanistan even if Osama were handed over by the Taliban. Arney's story is corroborated by the Guardian correspondent David Leigh in his report published on September 26, 2001, in which he revealed that the Taliban had received specific warning by the US through secret diplomacy in Berlin in July that the Bush Administration would topple the entire regime militarily unless Osama is extradited to the US. This was part of the larger design of US military, industrial complex to bring about regime change in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Iran. As the US needed bases in Pakistan to accomplish its pre-planned invasion of Afghanistan, the Bush Administration sought to use Islamabad as a cat's paw to pull the chestnuts out of the fire. Fortunately for President Bush, a usurper ruled there, devoid of all legitimacy, legal and moral, and he readily and willingly succumbed to US pressure and made a U-turn by severing all links with the Taliban. He even joined the war against Afghanistan instead of using his leverage with the Taliban to exhaust all means of peaceful settlement of the dispute. The entire region, including Pakistan, was declared a war zone by the US military command, and the flights of all passenger planes were prohibited over a certain altitude, while no merchant ships could enter the harbors of Pakistan, thus bringing maritime trade (which comprises approximately 95 percent of Pakistan's import-export trade) to a standstill. It is no wonder that Pakistan suffered a loss of 34 billion dollars because of its involvement in the Afghan war. America's War As one can see, it was America's war that was imposed upon Pakistan. Whether Pakistan could have avoided the war is a matter of controversy among politicians and political observers. But the war has fuelled insurgency in Pakistan's hitherto peaceful tribal territory adjacent to Afghanistan. This insurgency shows no sign of abatement, as terrorist attacks on military and civilian centers in the capital and major cities of the North-West Frontier Province and Punjab continue with a vengeance, posing threat to the security of the state. In the meantime, routine predator strikes by the US in Waziristan have taken a heavy toll of civilian lives amid accusations of Islamabad's complicity in the piratical attacks on tribespeople, which prompts them to resort to retaliatory strikes on the perpetrators. Not satisfied with Pakistan's military operations in the tribal region, the US Administration has compelled Islamabad's fragile government to pull out its troops from the tense Indo-Pak border and deploy them in the restive tribal belt along the Pak-Afghan border. Now Pakistan faces existential threat from the Taliban and not India, a perception which the country's military leadership is not prepared to share, given the unresolved disputes with New Delhi, which triggered four wars during the last 62 years. At the same time, speculation (not entirely unfounded) is rife about the involvement of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and the former Blackwater (now christened Xe Services) in murder, mayhem, and gunrunning as evidenced by the armed Americans who drive consulate vehicles through cities and, when intercepted, refuse to disclose their identity. It is here that one recalls with dismay the role of General Stanley McChrystal, who until last year headed the Joint Special Operations Command, which runs drone attacks and targeted assassinations with the assistance of the operatives of the former Blackwater. This was revealed by Jeremy Scahill's investigative report published in the US weekly the Nation. That may, perhaps, solve the mystery surrounding a series of assassinations of ulama belonging to various Islamic movements. The sinister motive behind such acts of terror is to incite sectarian violence in Pakistan and lay the blame at the doors of religious extremists. Similar death squads were organized by the CIA in El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua to carry out political assassinations of nationalists who were opposed to US intervention. At the time, the Sandinista government of Nicaragua complained to the International Court of Justice about the mining of Nicaraguan ports, the violation of the country's airspace, the killing and kidnapping of individuals on the Nicaraguan territory, and the threat or use of force by the US. The court in its decision in June 1986 held that the US was in breach of the customary rules of international law and international humanitarian law. The above case is titled the "Military and Paramilitary Activities in and Against Nicaragua." The precedent set by this case may be invoked by Pakistan to prevent the US drone attacks on its territory. Once the piratical attacks of the US have stopped, the irritant in the tribal insurgency would have gone, paving the way for pacification of the conflict. If this were Pakistan's war, the government would have exercised its own judgment in dealing with the militants at home, either by conciliation or by resort to force. But Islamabad's so-called operation against militants is subordinated to US military designs in the region, aimed at the encirclement of the People's Republic of China and the control of the transit of gas pipelines from Central Asia to South Asia. It is not aimless that China expressed its concern over the concentration of US, NATO troops in the region. India fits in the American scheme of things, hence the US-India nuclear deal.
Pakistan's National Interest In this emerging security environment, Pakistan will have to be content with its role as a junior partner of India. Therefore, the sooner Islamabad extricates itself from the US "war on terror," the better it is for its security and independence. Doesn't Islamabad realize that its military operation against the militants would leave its border with India vulnerable to a New Delhi offensive? If Pakistan permits the US to attack the suspected training centers of militants on its territory, will it be able to prevent India from doing so? With Islamabad embroiled in internecine strife, it cannot negotiate with India from a position of strength. It may be forced to make a compromise that might be detrimental to its national interest. Pakistan's preoccupation with tribal rebellion would not permit it to deal with separatist ethnic forces in Baluchistan. Undoubtedly, this is a threat to the territorial integrity of Pakistan. After the total failure of the military operation in Baluchistan, the federal government has come round to the painful conclusion that political and not military action can bring militancy to an end. Granting general amnesty to the dissidents and engaging them in a meaningful dialogue on contentious issues is a laudable initiative. The same gesture should be made to the militants in the tribal areas. But Islamabad has adopted double standards in dealing with the Baluchistan militants and the Pashtun militants, as if there were good militants and bad ones. This discriminatory policy would intensify the Pashtun insurgency and might drive them toward even more escalation. The rulers have seen the consequences of military operations in the former East Pakistan, Baluchistan, Karachi, Sind, and FATA (federally administered tribal areas). If anything, the situation has only worsened. The surge of US troops, the expansion of war beyond the borders of Afghanistan, and the attacks on Quetta and Muridke as envisaged by Obama's new strategy would mean that US troops are at war with the people of Pakistan.
Any Solution?
The Obama Administration would be better advised to concentrate on its exit strategy, and to that end, it is imperative that it involve the UN in its peace-making efforts aimed at the establishment of a broad-based government in Afghanistan, because the Karzai Government has no legitimacy. To fill the vacuum, the UN peacekeeping force, made up of troops of states not involved in the Afghan war, may be deployed until a government of national unity is able to assume full responsibility. Here the US can contribute to the postwar reconstruction of Afghanistan under the aegis of the UN. The insurgency in the tribal region is the spillover effect of US military occupation of Afghanistan, but Pakistan faces a far greater threat: the threat of ethnic violence as manifested in the bloody clashes among various linguistic groups in urban and rural Sind. These have been overshadowed by the counterinsurgency operations in FATA, but they may erupt at any moment, thus destabilizing the state.

Pakistan collapse escalates to great power nuclear war
Pitt, 9- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,”http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)

But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep filled with troops today, killing five and wounding as many as 21, including several children who were waiting for a ride to school. Residents of the region where the attack took place are fleeing in terror as gunfire rings out around them, and government forces have been unable to quell the violence. Two regional government officials were beheaded by militants in retaliation for the killing of other militants by government forces. As familiar as this sounds, it did not take place where we have come to expect such terrible events. This, unfortunately, is a whole new ballgame. It is part of another conflict that is brewing, one which puts what is happening in Iraq and Afghanistan in deep shade, and which represents a grave and growing threat to us all. Pakistan is now trembling on the edge of violent chaos, and is doing so with nuclear weapons in its hip pocket, right in the middle of one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in the world. The situation in brief: Pakistan for years has been a nation in turmoil, run by a shaky government supported by a corrupted system, dominated by a blatantly criminal security service, and threatened by a large fundamentalist Islamic population with deep ties to the Taliban in Afghanistan. All this is piled atop an ongoing standoff with neighboring India that has been the center of political gravity in the region for more than half a century. The fact that Pakistan, and India, and Russia, and China all possess nuclear weapons and share the same space means any ongoing or escalating violence over there has the real potential to crack open the very gates of Hell itself.
Recently, the Taliban made a military push into the northwest Pakistani region around the Swat Valley. According to a recent Reuters report:The (Pakistani) army deployed troops in Swat in October 2007 and used artillery and gunship helicopters to reassert control. But insecurity mounted after a civilian government came to power last year and tried to reach a negotiated settlement. A peace accord fell apart in May 2008. After that, hundreds — including soldiers, militants and civilians — died in battles. Militants unleashed a reign of terror, killing and beheading politicians, singers, soldiers and opponents. They banned female education and destroyed nearly 200 girls' schools. About 1,200 people were killed since late 2007 and 250,000 to 500,000 fled, leaving the militants in virtual control. Pakistan offered on February 16 to introduce Islamic law in the Swat valley and neighboring areas in a bid to take the steam out of the insurgency. The militants announced an indefinite cease-fire after the army said it was halting operations in the region. President Asif Ali Zardari signed a regulation imposing sharia in the area last month. But the Taliban refused to give up their guns and pushed into Buner and another district adjacent to Swat, intent on spreading their rule. The United States, already embroiled in a war against Taliban forces in Afghanistan, must now face the possibility that Pakistan could collapse under the mounting threat of Taliban forces there. Military and diplomatic advisers to President Obama, uncertain how best to proceed, now face one of the great nightmare scenarios of our time. "Recent militant gains in Pakistan," reported The New York Times on Monday, "have so alarmed the White House that the national security adviser, Gen. James L. Jones, described the situation as 'one of the very most serious problems we face.'" "Security was deteriorating rapidly," reported The Washington Post on Monday, "particularly in the mountains along the Afghan border that harbor al-Qaeda and the Taliban, intelligence chiefs reported, and there were signs that those groups were working with indigenous extremists in Pakistan's populous Punjabi heartland. The Pakistani government was mired in political bickering. The army, still fixated on its historical adversary India, remained ill-equipped and unwilling to throw its full weight into the counterinsurgency fight. But despite the threat the intelligence conveyed, Obama has only limited options for dealing with it. Anti-American feeling in Pakistan is high, and a U.S. combat presence is prohibited. The United States is fighting Pakistan-based extremists by proxy, through an army over which it has little control, in alliance with a government in which it has little confidence." It is believed Pakistan is currently in possession of between 60 and 100 nuclear weapons. Because Pakistan's stability is threatened by the wide swath of its population that shares ethnic, cultural and religious connections to the fundamentalist Islamic populace of Afghanistan, fears over what could happen to those nuclear weapons if the Pakistani government collapses are very real. "As the insurgency of the Taliban and Al Qaeda spreads in Pakistan," reported the Times last week, "senior American officials say they are increasingly concerned about new vulnerabilities for Pakistan's nuclear arsenal, including the potential for militants to snatch a weapon in transport or to insert sympathizers into laboratories or fuel-production facilities. In public, the administration has only hinted at those concerns, repeating the formulation that the Bush administration used: that it has faith in the Pakistani Army. But that cooperation, according to officials who would not speak for attribution because of the sensitivity surrounding the exchanges between Washington and Islamabad, has been sharply limited when the subject has turned to the vulnerabilities in the Pakistani nuclear infrastructure." "The prospect of turmoil in Pakistan sends shivers up the spines of those U.S. officials charged with keeping tabs on foreign nuclear weapons," reported Time Magazine last month. "Pakistan is thought to possess about 100 — the U.S. isn't sure of the total, and may not know where all of them are. Still, if Pakistan collapses, the U.S. military is primed to enter the country and secure as many of those weapons as it can, according to U.S. officials. Pakistani officials insist their personnel safeguards are stringent, but a sleeper cell could cause big trouble, U.S. officials say." In other words, a shaky Pakistan spells trouble for everyone, especially if America loses the footrace to secure those weapons in the event of the worst-case scenario. If Pakistani militants ever succeed in toppling the government, several very dangerous events could happen at once. Nuclear-armed India could be galvanized into military action of some kind, as could nuclear-armed China or nuclear-armed Russia. If the Pakistani government does fall, and all those Pakistani nukes are not immediately accounted for and secured, the specter (or reality) of loose nukes falling into the hands of terrorist organizations could place the entire world on a collision course with unimaginable disaster. We have all been paying a great deal of attention to Iraq and Afghanistan, and rightly so. The developing situation in Pakistan, however, needs to be placed immediately on the front burner. The Obama administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all.

The Second Impact is Terrorism – it’s inevitable in the status quo and causes extinction

MacQuarrie, 10 – staff writer, Boston Globe (Brian, “Clear and present nuclear threats,” Boston Globe, 7/25,http://www.boston.com/ae/movies/articles/2010/07/25/countdown_to_zero_examines_two_dangers_nuclear_threats_and_public_complacency/?page=1)
“The likelihood of a single nuclear bomb exploding in a single city somewhere, maybe even Boston, has increased,’’ said Graham Allison, director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. Allison is one of several talking heads featured in the documentary. The technology is spreading, terrorists have an appetite for the arms, and the security of nuclear bombs, particularly in Pakistan and the countries of the former Soviet Union, is a constant worry for US and allied defense officials. But to people worried more about mortgage payments than nuclear holocaust, the danger can seem as dated as fallout shelters and “Dr. Strangelove.’’ Because of that sense of complacency, an area network of clergy, academics, and scientists is spreading the word that this issue must not be overlooked. “Nuclear weapons were so much the story line of the Cold War,’’ said Allison, who served as assistant defense secretary under President Clinton and a special defense adviser under President Reagan. “If you’re only following the headlines — ‘The Cold War’s Over’ — it must have gone away.’’ Instead, Allison said, an apocalyptic danger is clear and present. “The objective of Al Qaeda is to ‘kill 4 million Americans, including 2 million children,’ ’’ Allison says during the 90-minute film. “You’re not going to get to kill 4 million people by hijacking airplanes and crashing them into buildings.’’ The quickest way to reach that goal is through the cataclysm of a nuclear explosion, which Valerie Plame Wilson, the former CIA officer whose identity was leaked by aides under President George W. Bush, said Al Qaeda is eager to accomplish. “Al Qaeda is determined to acquire nuclear weapons and to use them if they get them,’’ Wilson says in the film. “In the early ’90s, they tried to buy highly enriched uranium in the Sudan. They got scammed. Just prior to the 9/11 attacks, we do know that Osama bin Laden and his lieutenant, Zawahiri, sat down with two Pakistani nuclear scientists and discussed nuclear weapons.’’ “Countdown to Zero’’ was produced by Lawrence Bender, who brought the issue of global warming to a mass audience through “An Inconvenient Truth,’’ the Academy Award-winning documentary. In Allison’s view, nuclear proliferation is a much more immediate danger. In addition to showing the history of the atomic bomb, the film includes interviews of world figures such as Mikhail Gorbachev, Tony Blair, and Pervez Musharraf; nuclear scientists; and intelligence officials such as former CIA operative Rolf Mowatt-Larssen, a current fellow at the Belfer Center. “Countdown to Zero’’ includes the troubling and well-known development of Iran’s nuclear program, but its writer and director, Lucy Walker, also chronicles little-publicized thefts of enriched uranium that show this fear has been more reality than rumor. As Mowatt-Larssen says in the film: “There are three ways to acquire a nuclear weapon: You can steal a bomb. You can buy a bomb. And you can build a bomb.’’ Walker shows that all three options are very much in play. According to Dr. Ira Helfand of Northampton, former president of Physicians for Social Responsibility, even a relatively small nuclear exchange between, for example, India and Pakistan would have serious global repercussions. Temperatures across the planet would drop about 1.3 degrees centigrade, Helfand said, and lead to mass starvation. In a large-scale nuclear war, temperatures would drop 8 to 10 degrees centigrade, agriculture would be devastated, and “the likelihood is that the entire human race would starve to death,’’ Helfand said during a panel discussion after a recent screening at the Coolidge Corner Theatre in Brookline. “Countdown to Zero,’’ developed by Participant Media in conjunction with the World Security Institute and Magnolia Pictures, has been shown at the Cannes and Sundance film festivals. However, the sparse turnout at the Brookline screening underscored the difficulties that the documentary faces in attracting a large, paying audience. “We have kind of an issue fatigue that all of us understandably experience,’’ said the Rev. Jim Antal, president of the Massachusetts Conference of the United Church of Christ, who also spoke after the screening. To help counter that fatigue, Antal plans to send an alert to all of the 400 churches and clergy in his jurisdiction. “This problem has not gone away,’’ Antal said. The issue of complacency or unawareness might be even more acute among younger people who have no recollection of the Cold War and its hair-trigger threat of nuclear annihilation. Ryan Scott McDonnell, executive director of the Boston Faith & Justice Network, said the group will be encouraging its 5,000 young men and women to watch the film. “This is a first step to convince people that this is an issue that you at least need to learn about even before you care about it,’’ McDonnell said. “But that’s just the starting point.’’ Despite the seemingly increasing nuclear threat posed by terrorists and rogue organizations, some activists see more opportunities for large-scale disarmament. The United States and Russia already have dramatically reduced their nuclear arsenals, and Presidents Obama and Dmitry Medvedev have pledged to eliminate even more weapons. The Nobel Peace Prize committee made Obama its 2009 recipient partly because of his support for universal nuclear disarmament. And that effort, by the leader of one of the world’s two nuclear giants, is an important reason for hope, Antal said. “This is an unprecedented opportunity for humanity to put the genie back in the bottle,’’ Antal said. “To have a person of Obama’s values in his position, and his relations with the Russians, I just think this is something that can give the world hope.’’ Time, however, might be running short. Allison said that while the threat of all-out nuclear war has declined, the rise of terrorism continues to make the intersection of motive and materials a wildly unpredictable one. Indeed, Allison said in a phone interview, the findings of a congressionally appointed committee on weapons of mass destruction and terrorism underscored the dangers. Allison, who was a member of that committee, recounted its conclusions from 2008. “We said that unless there’s some significant, change from the current trend lines, we believed it was more likely than not that there would be a successful nuclear or biological attack somewhere in the world before the end of 2013,’’ Allison said.

Anti Americanism from occupation is the greatest link to global terrorism
Pena, 9 - Senior Fellow, The Independent Institute (December 9, Charles, “Can the U.S. Withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq?”http://www.independent.org/events/transcript.asp?eventID=145 )

Here are the issues. Number one, both Peter and Ivan have talked about this, the Taliban is not monolithic. We here in the United States tend to equate the Taliban with Al Qaeda. They’re not one and the same. There are elements of the Taliban that would support Al Qaeda in wanting to attack the United States. There are other elements of the Taliban that are just interested in having a say in the government in Afghanistan. We’ve got to stop treating them monolithically as a single threat as if somehow they are a threat to the United States of America proper. They’re not. We have to be willing to live with less than perfect in terms of what happens in Afghanistan, and I also think that we have to be willing to concede at this point that what’s left of Al Qaeda, whether they’re operating out of Pakistan or coming across the boarder periodically into Afghanistan. And by the way I saw a news report that supposedly even Bin Laden—assuming he’s still alive—finds his way across the border into Afghanistan periodically. Al Qaeda isn’t the same Al Qaeda that existed, that attacked us on 9/11, and Bin Laden in particular does not have operational control over a group that has global reach that can attack the United States. Our larger problem is not Osama Bin Laden and what is left of Al Qaeda hiding out in Pakistan. Our larger problem is the ideology of radical Islam, which has seeped into the Muslim world in part because we’ve helped propagate that by our actions in places like Iraq and Afghanistan. I would argue that whatever benefit there might be to getting Bin Laden at this point, and believe me I would love to be able to say that we got Osama Bin Laden, but strategically the costs required to try and get Bin Laden and contain Al Qaeda far outweigh any residual benefit at this stage. Bin Laden and the people surrounding him no longer represent operationally the real threat to the United States. The real threat is sort of everywhere within the Muslim world being fueled by ideology and anti-American sentiment. So this notion of denying Al Qaeda safe haven in Afghanistan, I think, is a pie-in-the-sky notion. Al Qaeda—there will be some safe havens. Why? Because there will always be people who have sympathies and decide they want to support groups like Al Qaeda. The question is, are they local threats or global threats? As long as they are local threats, then those are threats that the Afghan government has to deal with and ones that we may have to live with—again, less than perfect. It’s the global threat that Al Qaeda may represent that we have to worry about. I think we have to worry about that less now than we did eight years ago. I think we have to worry more that we are radicalizing Muslims around the world, as witnessed by the bombings in Madrid and London in particular. Our very presence in two Muslim countries at the moment, Iraq and Afghanistan, goes a long, long way to fueling that radicalism that it’s U.S. occupation that makes us a target. There may be a certain amount of anti-Western, anti-U.S. elements in radical Islamic ideology, but most of that is because we’re there in their territories, not necessarily that they want to come after the United States in the U.S.

Nuclear terrorism is an existential threat—it escalates to nuclear war with Russia and China.
Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington , 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by the country attacked in the first place, would not necessarily represent the worst of the nuclear worlds imaginable. Indeed, there are reasons to wonder whether nuclear terrorism should ever be regarded as belonging in the category of truly existential threats. A contrast can be drawn here with the global catastrophe that would come from a massive nuclear exchange between two or more of the sovereign states that possess these weapons in significant numbers. Even the worst terrorism that the twenty-first century might bring would fade into insignificance alongside considerations of what a general nuclear war would have wrought in the Cold War period. And it must be admitted that as long as the major nuclear weapons states have hundreds and even thousands of nuclear weapons at their disposal, there is always the possibility of a truly awful nuclear exchange taking place precipitated entirely by state possessors themselves. But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a catastrophic interstate nuclear exchange—are not necessarily separable. It is just possible that some sort of terrorist attack, and especially an act of nuclear terrorism, could precipitate a chain of events leading to a massive exchange of nuclear weapons between two or more of the states that possess them. In this context, today’s and tomorrow’s terrorist groups might assume the place allotted during the early Cold War years to new state possessors of small nuclear arsenals who were seen as raising the risks of a catalytic nuclear war between the superpowers started by third parties. These risks were considered in the late 1950s and early 1960s as concerns grew about nuclear proliferation, the so-called n+1 problem. It may require a considerable amount of imagination to depict an especially plausible situation where an act of nuclear terrorism could lead to such a massive inter-state nuclear war. For example, in the event of a terrorist nuclear attack on the United States, it might well be wondered just how Russia and/or China could plausibly be brought into the picture, not least because they seem unlikely to be fingered as the most obvious state sponsors or encouragers of terrorist groups. They would seem far too responsible to be involved in supporting that sort of terrorist behavior that could just as easily threaten them as well. Some possibilities, however remote, do suggest themselves. For example, how might the United States react if it was thought or discovered that the fissile material used in the act of nuclear terrorism had come from Russian stocks,40 and if for some reason Moscow denied any responsibility for nuclear laxity? The correct attribution of that nuclear material to a particular country might not be a case of science fiction given the observation by Michael May et al. that while the debris resulting from a nuclear explosion would be “spread over a wide area in tiny fragments, its radioactivity makes it detectable, identifiable and collectable, and a wealth of information can be obtained from its analysis: the efficiency of the explosion, the materials used and, most important … some indication of where the nuclear material came from.”41 Alternatively, if the act of nuclear terrorism came as a complete surprise, and American officials refused to believe that a terrorist group was fully responsible (or responsible at all) suspicion would shift immediately to state possessors. Ruling out Western ally countries like the United Kingdom and France, and probably Israel and India as well, authorities in Washington would be left with a very short list consisting of North Korea, perhaps Iran if its program continues, and possibly Pakistan. But at what stage would Russia and China be definitely ruled out in this high stakes game of nuclear Clue do? In particular, if the act of nuclear terrorism occurred against a backdrop of existing tension in Washington’s relations with Russia and/or China, and at a time when threats had already been traded between these major powers, would officials and political leaders not be tempted to assume the worst? Of course, the chances of this occurring would only seem to increase if the United States was already involved in some sort of limited armed conflict with Russia and/or China, or if they were confronting each other from a distance in a proxy war, as unlikely as these developments may seem at the present time. The reverse might well apply too: should a nuclear terrorist attack occur in Russia or China during a period of heightened tension or even limited conflict with the United States, could Moscow and Beijing resist the pressures that might rise domestically to consider the United States as a possible perpetrator or encourager of the attack?Washington’s early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country’s armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, it is just possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force (and possibly nuclear force) against them. In that situation, the temptations to preempt such actions might grow, although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response. As part of its initial response to the act of nuclear terrorism (as discussed earlier)Washington might decide to order a significant conventional (or nuclear) retaliatory or disarming attack against the leadership of the terrorist group and/or states seen to support that group. Depending on the identity and especially the location of these targets, Russia and/or China might interpret such action as being far too close for their comfort, and potentially as an infringement on their spheres of influence and even on their sovereignty. One far-fetched but perhaps not impossible scenario might stem from a judgment in Washington that some of the main aiders and abetters of the terrorist action resided somewhere such as Chechnya, perhaps in connection with what Allison claims is the “Chechen insurgents’ … long-standing interest in all things nuclear.”42 American pressure on that part of the world would almost certainly raise alarms in Moscow that might require a degree of advanced consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide. There is also the question of how other nuclear-armed states respond to the act of nuclear terrorism on another member of that special club. It could reasonably be expected that following a nuclear terrorist attack on the United States, both Russia and China would extend immediate sympathy and support to Washington and would work alongside the United States in the Security Council. But there is just a chance, albeit a slim one, where the support of Russia and/or China is less automatic in some cases than in others. For example, what would happen if the United States wished to discuss its right to retaliate against groups based in their territory? If, for some reason, Washington found the responses of Russia and China deeply underwhelming, (neither “for us or against us”) might it also suspect that they secretly were in cahoots with the group, increasing (again perhaps ever so slightly) the chances of a major exchange. If the terrorist group had some connections to groups in Russia and China, or existed in areas of the world over which Russia and China held sway, and if Washington felt that Moscow or Beijing were placing a curiously modest level of pressure on them, what conclusions might it then draw about their culpability? If Washington decided to use, or decided to threaten the use of, nuclear weapons, the responses of Russia and China would be crucial to the chances of avoiding a more serious nuclear exchange. They might surmise, for example, that while the act of nuclear terrorism was especially heinous and demanded a strong response, the response simply had to remain below the nuclear threshold. It would be one thing for a non-state actor to have broken the nuclear use taboo, but an entirely different thing for a state actor, and indeed the leading state in the international system, to do so. If Russia and China felt sufficiently strongly about that prospect, there is then the question of what options would lie open to them to dissuade the United States from such action: and as has been seen over the last several decades, the central dissuader of the use of nuclear weapons by states has been the threat of nuclear retaliation. If some readers find this simply too fanciful, and perhaps even offensive to contemplate, it may be informative to reverse the tables. Russia, which possesses an arsenal of thousands of nuclear warheads and that has been one of the two most important trustees of the non-use taboo, is subjected to an attack of nuclear terrorism. In response, Moscow places its nuclear forces very visibly on a higher state of alert and declares that it is considering the use of nuclear retaliation against the group and any of its state supporters. How would Washington view such a possibility? Would it really be keen to support Russia’s use of nuclear weapons, including outside Russia’s traditional sphere of influence? And if not, which seems quite plausible, what options would Washington have to communicate that displeasure? If China had been the victim of the nuclear terrorism and seemed likely to retaliate in kind, would the United States and Russia be happy to sit back and let this occur? In the charged atmosphere immediately after a nuclear terrorist attack, how would the attacked country respond to pressure from other major nuclear powers not to respond in kind? The phrase “how dare they tell us what to do” immediately springs to mind. Some might even go so far as to interpret this concern as a tacit form of sympathy or support for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.

Drawdown to counterterrorism allows more effective leadership in the war on terror and credibility
Chellany, 9 - professor of strategic studies at the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi (9/14/09, Brahma, Japan Times, “An Advantagous U.S. Exit,” http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20090914bc.html)

When the administration's principal war target is not the Taliban but rather al-Qaida remnants on the run, why chase a troop-intensive strategy pivoted on protecting population centers to win grassroots support? In reality, what it calls a "clear, hold, build" strategy is actually a "surge, bribe, run" strategy, except that the muddled nature of the mission and the deepening U.S. involvement crimp the "run" option.
America's quandary is a reminder that it is easier to get into a war than to get out. In fact, Obama undermined his unfolding war strategy last March by publicly declaring, "There's got to be an exit strategy." The message that sent to the Taliban and its sponsor, the Pakistani military, was that they ought to simply out-wait the Americans to reclaim Afghanistan.
Before Afghanistan becomes a Vietnam-style quagmire, Obama must rethink his plan for another troop surge. Gradually drawing down U.S. troop levels indeed makes more sense because what holds the disparate constituents of the Taliban syndicate together is a common opposition to foreign military presence.
An American military exit from Afghanistan will not come as a shot in the arm for the forces of global jihad, as many in Washington seem to fear. To the contrary, it will remove the common unifying element and unleash developments whose significance would be largely internal or regional. In Afghanistan, a vicious power struggle would break out along sectarian and ethnic lines. The Taliban, with the active support of the Pakistani military, would certainly make a run for Kabul to replay the 1996 power grab.
But it won't be easy to repeat 1996. For one, the Taliban is splintered today, with the tail (private armies and militias) wagging the dog. For another, the non-Taliban and non-Pashtun forces now are stronger, more organized and better prepared than in 1996 to resist the Taliban's advance to Kabul, having been empowered by the autonomy they have enjoyed in provinces or by the offices they still hold in the Afghan federal government.
Also, by retaining Afghan bases to carry out covert operations and Predator missions and other airstrikes, the U.S. military would be able to unleash punitive air power to prevent a 1996 repeat.After all, it was the combination of American air power and the Northern Alliance's ground operations that ousted the Taliban from power in 2001.
Against this background, the most likely outcome of the Afghan power struggle triggered by an American decision to pull out would be the formalization of the present de facto partition of Afghanistan along ethnic lines. Iraq, too, is headed in the same direction.
The Tajiks, Uzbeks, Hazaras and other ethnic minorities would be able to ensure self-governance in the Afghan areas they dominate, leaving the Pashtun lands on both sides of the British-drawn Durand Line in ferment. Thanks to ethnic polarization, the Durand Line, or the Afpak border, exists today only on maps. On the ground, it has little political, ethnic and economic relevance.
As in Iraq, an American withdrawal would potentially let loose forces of Balkanization in the Afpak belt. That may sound disturbing, but this would be an unintended and perhaps unstoppable consequence of the U.S. invasion.
An American pullout actually would aid the fight against international terrorism. Instead of staying bogged down in Afghanistan and seeking to cajole and bribe the Pakistani military from continuing to provide succor to Islamic militants, Washington would become free to pursue a broader and more-balanced counterterrorism strategy.
Also, minus the Afghan-war burden, the U.S. would better appreciate the dangers to international security posed by Pakistani terror groupslike the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e- Mohammed. The threat of an Islamist takeover of Pakistan comes not from the Taliban but from these groups that have long drawn support from the Pakistani army as part of the deep-rooted military-mullah alliance.


And, this strategy maximizes US influence in Central Asia to contain instability and terrorism
Simon, and Stevenson, 9 * adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, AND Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College, (Steven and Jonathan, “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?” Survival, 51:5, 47 – 67, October 2009http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/section?content=a915362559&fulltext=7132409)

An effort on that scale would garner majority US domestic support only if the public sees likely victory and Congress, the White House and the Beltway punditry line up decisively behind the policy. The emerging trends are pointing in the contrary direction. As monthly and annual US casualties in Afghanistan reached historical peaks in August 2009, and the Afghan national election loomed, a poll conducted by ABC News and the Washington Post indicated that most Americans did not support an extended US military commitment in Afghanistan.31Congressional Democrats are balking at anticipated requests for more troops.32 And even conservative columnists, like the influential George F. Will, have turned against a maximalist Afghanistan policy.33Overall, increasingly strong perceptions of the Karzai government as inept and corrupt are making prospects that the United States could enlist it as an effective counter-insurgency partner and lend it the legitimacy required to rebuild the country seem more and more baseless.
The upshot is that only if the United States establishes a well-calibrated limited policy now will it have the political flexibility to sustain it over the longer-term and thereby to effectively contain the jihadist threat in Central Asia. If, on the other hand, the Obama administration promises more than it can deliver in Afghanistan, a reprise of Vietnam may occur: once failure becomes clear, domestic support will evaporate, the administration will be compelled to withdraw precipitously, and the United States will lose considerable traction in the region.
Congressional democrats are balking at anticipated requests for more troops
These factors suggest that the United States should limit its Afghanistan/Pakistan policy to counter-terrorism and disown country-wide counterinsurgency and state-building in Afghanistan. At the same time, Washington must remain highly sensitive to the dynamic whereby decreased military activity in Afghanistan combined with robust operations in Pakistan could induce al-Qaeda to return to Afghanistan and render it a main threat once again. In that light, any abrupt wholesale American military withdrawal from Afghanistan would be too risky. Instead, the United States should seek to facilitate a glide-path to a substantial drawdown - and with it fewer casualties and lower expenditures in Afghanistan - over the next few years.
Doing so would involve continuing to suppress al-Qaeda in Pakistan with selective and discriminate drone strikes and denying al-Qaeda access to Afghanistan. The former would require bases within Afghan territory from which to deploy airpower and special-operations forces against terrorists and terrorist infrastructure, as well as the troops and equipment to secure these bases. The latter would call for reinforced border security and force protection within Afghanistan, which in themselves would entail a surprisingly large number of soldiers. For these purposes, the UnitedStates would continue to bring extensive human intelligence and surveillance capabilities to bear on Afghanistan to detect and assess potential threats to American interests. To mitigate and eliminate such threats, the generous deployment of US special-operations forces to Afghanistan - which currently comprises some 50% of all US special-operations personnel - would have to be maintained over the medium term. Meanwhile, US train-and-equip programmes for Afghan security forces should be intensified in contemplation of a gradual and controlled hand-off of the domestic counter-terrorism mission to them when they are ready, as well as to prepare them for counterinsurgency operations, should the Afghan government wish to use them for that purpose.
The United States should also provide strong political and economic support for the Afghan government, which is likely to remain under Karzai once the votes of the 20 August election are counted and certified. Kabul, however, should be left to take the lead in managing its relationship with the Taliban (as well as anti-narcotics policy). With US encouragement, the Karzai government should make it clear to Pashtuns in the southern and eastern parts of the country that if they support insurgents or terrorists aiming to destabilise the Afghan or Pakistani governments, they will suffer financially and militarily. Again, some US forces would be needed to give such arrangements teeth, but not at the levels required for an all-out counter-insurgency. American insurance against a militant Islamist coup or an uncontrollable level of destabilisation also should be left in place. This could entail a standby stabilisation force with tactical air capabilities based in or near Kabul, along with a robust quick-reaction force.
That policy would reflect the reality that a deeply committed counterinsurgency campaign in Afghanistan is potentially counterproductive, probably unwinnable and in any event unnecessary. The United States can protect its interests and fulfil its international security obligations with a far more circumscribed counter-terrorism effort focused on Pakistan. Under such an approach, US policy would recognise Afghanistan as the residual problem that it has, in fact, become.

The Plan immediately turns the population against the Taliban, solving legitimacy
Dorronsoro, 9 -Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,”http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf)

This three-zone strategy is not, per se, a gamechanger, and it must be accompanied by an incremental, phased withdrawal. The withdrawal would not be a consequence of “stabilization,” but rather an essential part of the process. Since the presence of foreign troops is the most important factor in mobilizing support for the Taliban, the beginning of the withdrawal would change the political game on two levels. First, Jihad would become a motivation for fewer Afghans; instead, the conflict would be mostly seen as a civil war. Second, the pro-government population (or, more exactly, the anti-Taliban one) would rally together because of fear of a Taliban victory.
Why Withdraw the Combat Troops ? Reframing the War
There is an argument against withdrawing combat troops: namely, that al-Qaeda would retain its sanctuary in Afghanistan because the Afghan state would not have control of some parts of the country, especially in the east. Though superficially compelling, this argument is weak for two reasons. First, the international coalition lacks the resources to control the periphery of the Afghan territory anyway. Second, the withdrawal of combat troops does not preclude targeted operations with the agreement of the Kabul government. So, in terms of physical security, the withdrawal of combat troops does not bring clear gains for al-Qaeda.
There are two important reasons for withdrawal.
First, the mere presence of foreign soldiers fighting a war in Afghanistan is probably the single most important factor in the resurgence of the Taliban. The convergence of nationalism and Jihad has aided the Taliban in extending its influence. It is sometimes frightening to see how similar NATO military operations are to Soviet ones in the 1980s and how the similarities could affect the perceptions of the population. The majority of Afghans are now deeply opposed to the foreign troops on their soil. The idea that one can “stabilize” Afghanistan with more troops goes against all that one should have learned from the Soviet war. The real issue is not to “stabilize” but to create a new dynamic. The Taliban have successfully framed the war as a Jihad and a liberation war against (non-Muslim) foreign armies. The concrete consequence of this moral victory is that the movement has been able to gain ground in non-Pashtun areas. The situations in Badghris Province (northwest) and in Badakhshan Province (northeast) are extremely worrisome, because the Taliban have been able to attract the support of some Pashtun tribes and fundamentalist networks. A province like Wardak, initially opposed to the Taliban in the 1990s, is now one of its strongholds. Insecurity bred by the narcotics trade and the infighting of local groups in the north also provides the Taliban opportunities to find new allies on a more practical, rather than ideological, ground. This trend is extraordinarily dangerous, since the spread of the war geographically would put Western countries in an untenable position.
Second, withdrawal would create a new dynamic in the country, providing two main benefits. The momentum of the Taliban would slow or stop altogether, because without a foreign occupier the Jihadist and nationalist feelings of the population would be much more difficult to mobilize. Furthermore, the Karzai regime would gain legitimacy. If Karzai (or his successor) receives enough help from the international coalition, he would be able to develop more centralized institutions in the strategic areas or at least keep local actors under control. The regime would remain corrupt but would appear more legitimate if it succeeded in bringing security to the population in the strategic zones without the help of foreign troops. The support of the urban population, which opposes the Taliban, is a critical issue. Corruption is a problem primarily if it accelerates the independence of Afghanistan’s peripheral regions.

The Plan immediately turns the population against the Taliban, solving legitimacy
Dorronsoro, 9 -Visiting Scholar, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (January 2009, Gilles, “Focus and Exit: An Alternative Strategy for the Afghan War,”http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/afghan_war-strategy.pdf)

This three-zone strategy is not, per se, a gamechanger, and it must be accompanied by an incremental, phased withdrawal. The withdrawal would not be a consequence of “stabilization,” but rather an essential part of the process. Since the presence of foreign troops is the most important factor in mobilizing support for the Taliban, the beginning of the withdrawal would change the political game on two levels. First, Jihad would become a motivation for fewer Afghans; instead, the conflict would be mostly seen as a civil war. Second, the pro-government population (or, more exactly, the anti-Taliban one) would rally together because of fear of a Taliban victory.
Why Withdraw the Combat Troops ? Reframing the War
There is an argument against withdrawing combat troops: namely, that al-Qaeda would retain its sanctuary in Afghanistan because the Afghan state would not have control of some parts of the country, especially in the east. Though superficially compelling, this argument is weak for two reasons. First, the international coalition lacks the resources to control the periphery of the Afghan territory anyway. Second, the withdrawal of combat troops does not preclude targeted operations with the agreement of the Kabul government. So, in terms of physical security, the withdrawal of combat troops does not bring clear gains for al-Qaeda.
There are two important reasons for withdrawal.
First, the mere presence of foreign soldiers fighting a war in Afghanistan is probably the single most important factor in the resurgence of the Taliban. The convergence of nationalism and Jihad has aided the Taliban in extending its influence. It is sometimes frightening to see how similar NATO military operations are to Soviet ones in the 1980s and how the similarities could affect the perceptions of the population. The majority of Afghans are now deeply opposed to the foreign troops on their soil. The idea that one can “stabilize” Afghanistan with more troops goes against all that one should have learned from the Soviet war. The real issue is not to “stabilize” but to create a new dynamic. The Taliban have successfully framed the war as a Jihad and a liberation war against (non-Muslim) foreign armies. The concrete consequence of this moral victory is that the movement has been able to gain ground in non-Pashtun areas. The situations in Badghris Province (northwest) and in Badakhshan Province (northeast) are extremely worrisome, because the Taliban have been able to attract the support of some Pashtun tribes and fundamentalist networks. A province like Wardak, initially opposed to the Taliban in the 1990s, is now one of its strongholds. Insecurity bred by the narcotics trade and the infighting of local groups in the north also provides the Taliban opportunities to find new allies on a more practical, rather than ideological, ground. This trend is extraordinarily dangerous, since the spread of the war geographically would put Western countries in an untenable position.
Second, withdrawal would create a new dynamic in the country, providing two main benefits. The momentum of the Taliban would slow or stop altogether, because without a foreign occupier the Jihadist and nationalist feelings of the population would be much more difficult to mobilize. Furthermore, the Karzai regime would gain legitimacy. If Karzai (or his successor) receives enough help from the international coalition, he would be able to develop more centralized institutions in the strategic areas or at least keep local actors under control. The regime would remain corrupt but would appear more legitimate if it succeeded in bringing security to the population in the strategic zones without the help of foreign troops. The support of the urban population, which opposes the Taliban, is a critical issue. Corruption is a problem primarily if it accelerates the independence of Afghanistan’s peripheral regions.
Afghanistan 1AC - Blake

in place of rogin:
Withdrawal deadline changed a third time – killed perception of US commitment to Afghanistan – even we’re clueless – only the plan resolves this because of changing conditions

Fishel 11/18 (Justin, “Pentagon Says Afghans Should Take Lead in 2015,” http://politics.blogs.foxnews.com/2010/11/18/pentagon-says-afghans-should-take-lead-2015#ixzz18CNkJuiW , 11/15/2010)
WASHINGTON -- For the first time the Pentagon has mentioned the year 2015 as a date for the withdrawal of most U.S. troops from Afghanistan. Pentagon Spokesman Geoff Morrell said Thursday the administration hopes to transfer security to Afghanistan by the end of 2014, "so effectively it's by 2015."
The statement represents a slight shift in language from a strategy that pointed originally to sometime 2014.
He called the start 2015 is an "aspirational goal" for the transfer of security, not a deadline for U.S. withdrawal.
The Pentagon can't predict how many U.S. troops would remain on the ground in Afghanistan in 2015 if that goal is met. "I don't think anybody could tell you with any -- with any credence what the force posture will be four years from now," Morrell said at a Pentagon press briefing Thursday. "It's just impossible to know."
The idea for a transfer of security in 4 years was first brought up by Afghan President Hamid Karzai earlier this year. The Obama administration quietly embraced the new timeline when the Secretary of Defense,Robert Gates, and Joint Chiefs Chairman, Adm. Mike Mullen, told reporters during an off camera briefing in Melbourne, Australia they were comfortable with the plan just over a week ago.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton cautioned on Monday that withdrawal all depends on what progress is made by the Afghan Security Forces. "The pace of transition of security and responsibility obviously depends on the ability of the Afghan National Security Forces and the Afghan National Police Forces to be able to take charge," Clinton said. "That's why it's a conditions-based, gradual transition process, not some one-time event."
The new date is seen by many as a careful shift of focus away from the July 2011 date that President Obama said earlier this year would mark the beginning of a U.S. troop withdrawal. July 2011 drew critics who said the White House was not allowing enough time for surge forces to do their work and that it signaled an imminent retreat to the enemy.

Add ons
Russian War

US presence in Afghanistan is a flashpoint for US-Russian conflict
Cullison and Dreazen, 9 (Alan Cullison And Yochi J. Dreazen, Staff Writers for The Wall Street Journal, February 5, 2009, “Moscow Moves to Counter U.S. Power in Central Asia”, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123378027003448977.html )

MOSCOW -- Russia is reasserting its role in Central Asia with a Kremlin push to eject the U.S. from a vital air base and a Moscow-led pact to form an international military force to rival NATO -- two moves that potentially complicate the new U.S. war strategy in Afghanistan. On Wednesday, Russia announced a financial rescue fund for a group of ex-Soviet allies and won their agreement to form a military rapid reaction force in the region that it said would match North Atlantic Treaty Organization standards. That came a day after Kyrgyzstan announced, at Russian urging, that it planned to evict the U.S. from the base it has used to ferry large numbers of American troops into Afghanistan. Russia said the base may house part of the planned new force instead. The steps mark Russia's most aggressive push yet to counter a U.S. military presence in the region that it has long resented. They pose a challenge for the administration of President Barack Obama, which sees Afghanistan as its top foreign-policy priority and is preparing to double the size of the American military presence there. Kyrgyzstan said the U.S. must leave the Manas Air Base, which American forces use to send troops and equipment to Afghanistan. The developments also underscore the difficulties for Mr. Obama as he seeks to build a closer relationship with Moscow. Russia is signaling that it will be a tough defender of its interests, especially in its traditional backyard of the former Soviet Union. Though its huge cash reserves are rapidly draining because of falling oil prices, the greater needs of its poorer neighbors are still giving it an opening. "Russia would like to reassert itself in the region, and it is using the financial crisis as an opportunity," said Nikolai Zlobin, senior fellow at the World Security Institute, a Washington think tank.


Extinction – outweighs on probability and magnitude
Bostrom, Ph.D. Philosophy @ Oxford, 2
(Nick, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)

A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization.[4] Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.

NATO
Draw down key to Cohesion

Bacevich 10 [Andrew – professor of history and international relations @ Boston University, “Let Europe be Europe: Why the United States must withdraw from NATO”, March/April, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/02/22/let_europe_be_europe?page=0,1]

Over the course of the disastrous 20th century, inhabitants of the liberal democratic world in ever-increasing numbers reached this conclusion: War doesn't pay and usually doesn't work. As recounted by historian James J. Sheehan in his excellent book, Where Have All the Soldiers Gone?, the countries possessing the greatest capability to employ force to further their political aims lost their enthusiasm for doing so. Over time, they turned away from war. Of course, there were lingering exceptions. The United States and Israel have remained adamant in their determination to harness war and demonstrate its utility. Europe, however, is another matter. By the dawn of this century, Europeans had long since lost their stomach for battle. The change was not simply political. It was profoundly cultural. The cradle of Western civilization -- and incubator of ambitions that drenched the contemporary age in blood -- had become thoroughly debellicized. As a consequence, however willing they are to spend money updating military museums or maintaining war memorials, present-day Europeans have become altogether stingy when it comes to raising and equipping fighting armies. This pacification of Europe is quite likely to prove irreversible. Yet even if reigniting an affinity for war among the people of, say, Germany and France were possible, why would any sane person even try? Why not allow Europeans to busy themselves with their never-ending European unification project? It keeps them out of mischief. Washington, however, finds it difficult to accept this extraordinary gift -- purchased in part through the sacrifices of U.S. soldiers -- of a Europe that has laid down its arms. Instead, successive U.S. administrations have pushed, prodded, cajoled, and browbeaten European democracies to shoulder a heavier share of responsibility for maintaining world order and enforcing liberal norms. In concrete terms, this attempt to reignite Europe's martial spirit has found expression in the attempted conversion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) from a defensive alliance into an instrument of power projection. Washington's aim is this: take a Cold War-inspired organization designed to keep the Germans down, the Russians out, and the Americans in, and transform it into a post-Cold War arrangement in which Europe will help underwrite American globalism without, of course, being permitted any notable say regarding U.S. policy. The allies have not proven accommodating. True, NATO has gotten bigger -- there were 16 member states 20 years ago, 28 today -- but growth has come at the expense of cohesion. Once an organization that possessed considerable capability, NATO today resembles a club that just about anyone can join, including, most recently, such military powerhouses as Albania and Croatia. A club with lax entrance requirements is unlikely to inspire respect even from its own members. NATO's agreed-upon target for defense spending, for example, is a paltry 2 percent of GDP. Last year, aside from the United States, exactly four member states met that goal. The Supreme Allied Commander in Europe -- today, as always, a U.S. general -- still presides in splendor over NATO's military headquarters in Belgium. Yet SACEUR wields about as much clout as the president of a decent-sized university. He is not a commander. He is a supplicant. SACEUR's impressive title, a relic of World War II, is merely an honorific, akin to calling Elvis the King or Bruce the Boss. Afghanistan provides the most important leading indicator of where Washington's attempt to nurture a muscle-flexing new NATO is heading; it is the decisive test of whether the alliance can handle large-scale, out-of-area missions. And after eight years, the results have been disappointing. Complaints about the courage and commitment of NATO soldiers have been few. Complaints about their limited numbers and the inadequacy of their kit have been legion. An immense complicating factor has been the tendency of national governments to impose restrictions on where and how their forces are permitted to operate. The result has been dysfunction. When Gen. Stanley McChrystal's famous assessment of the situation in Afghanistan leaked to the media last year, most observers focused on his call for additional U.S. troops. Yet the report was also a scathing demand for change in NATO's International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). "ISAF will change its operating culture.... ISAF will change the way it does business," he wrote. "ISAF's subordinate headquarters must stop fighting separate campaigns." The U.S. general found just about nothing in ISAF's performance to commend. But McChrystal's prospects for fixing ISAF run headlong into two stubborn facts. First, European governments prioritize social welfare over all other considerations -- including funding their armed forces. Second, European governments have an exceedingly limited appetite for casualties. So the tepid, condition-laden European response to McChrystal's call for reinforcements -- a couple of battalions here, a few dozen trainers there, some creative bookkeeping to count units that deployed months ago as fresh arrivals -- is hardly surprising. This doesn't mean that NATO is without value. It does suggest that relying on the alliance to sustain a protracted counterinsurgency aimed at dragging Afghans kicking and screaming into modernity makes about as much sense as expecting the "war on drugs" to curb the world's appetite for various banned substances. It's not going to happen. If NATO has a future, it will find that future back where the alliance began: in Europe. NATO's founding mission of guaranteeing the security of European democracies has lost none of its relevance. Although the Soviet threat has vanished, Russia remains. And Russia, even if no longer a military superpower, does not exactly qualify as a status quo country. The Kremlin nurses grudges and complaints, not least of them stemming from NATO's own steady expansion eastward. So let NATO attend to this new (or residual) Russian problem. Present-day Europeans -- even Europeans with a pronounced aversion to war -- are fully capable of mounting the defenses necessary to deflect a much reduced Eastern threat. So why not have the citizens of France and Germany guarantee the territorial integrity of Poland and Lithuania, instead of fruitlessly demanding that Europeans take on responsibilities on the other side of the world that they can't and won't? Like Nixon setting out for Beijing, like Sadat flying to Jerusalem, like Reagan deciding that Gorbachev was cut from a different cloth, the United States should dare to do the unthinkable: allow NATO to devolve into a European organization, directed by Europeans to serve European needs, upholding the safety and well-being of a Europe that is whole and free -- and more than able to manage its own affairs.

Anarchy
COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – props up an ineffective central government at the cost of stability
Preble, 10 (Christopher A., Director of Foreign Studies at the CATO Institute, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?” 5/21, in The Economist http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834)

The appropriate question is not whether the war is winnable. If we define victory narrowly, if we are willing to apply the resources necessary to have a reasonable chance of success, and if we have capable and credible partners, then of course the war is winnable. Any war is winnable under these conditions. None of these conditions exist in Afghanistan, however. Our mission is too broadly construed. Our resources are constrained. The patience of the American people has worn thin. And our Afghan partners are unreliable and unpopular with their own people. Given this, the better question is whether the resources that we have already ploughed into Afghanistan, and those that would be required in the medium to long term, could be better spent elsewhere. They most certainly could be. America and its allies must narrow their focus in Afghanistan. Rather than asking if the war is winnable, we should ask instead if the war is worth winning. And we should look for alternative approaches that do not require us to transform what is a deeply divided, poverty stricken, tribal-based society into a self-sufficient, cohesive and stable electoral democracy. If we start from the proposition that victory is all that matters, we are setting ourselves up for ruin. We can expect an endless series of calls to plough still more resources—more troops, more civilian experts and more money, much more money—into Afghanistan. Such demands demonstrate a profound misunderstanding of the public’s tolerance for an open-ended mission with ill-defined goals. More importantly, a disdain for a focused strategy that balances ends, ways and means betrays an inability to think strategically about the range of challenges facing America today. After having already spent more than eight and a half years in Afghanistan, pursuing a win-at-all-costs strategy only weakens our ability to deal with other security challenges elsewhere in the world.

The impact is anarchy – try-or-die.
Castonguay, 10 (David Castonguay studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, 2010, “In Praise of Warlords”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords)

Engaging local groups made up of tribes and warlords (or commanders) means according greater autonomy to them. Over time, they would consolidate and incorporate within the greater security apparatus of the country.
These grassroots efforts need greater emphasis — through intelligence on tribal politics, Afghan government reconciliation initiatives, and U.S. military engagement and empowerment of tribes and local leaders — because Afghanistan is a decentralized country. The most important and irreducible political unit is the tribe, at least in the Pashtun lands. Implementing a central government with western apparatus of control is akin to social engineering, bypassing the native political workings of the environment.
A centralized country has certain advantages. But going too fast with centralization (and dictating to someone else how fast they should go) risks implementing structures that are too weak to survive.
Currently, government agents lack legitimacy in the eyes of the locals, therefore giving rise to repeated accusations of corruption and injustices that erodes their capacity to operate and empowers the anti-Afghan forces. This lack of legitimacy and the weakness of the central government have created anarchy that has increasingly defined the country since 2002.
In a country where the internal politics look more like relations between states — rather than the normal relations inside a country in which the state has the monopoly on violence — self-determination is all the more important. It's also conducive to a long-term cooling down of the violence through a process of balancing power and negotiating relationships at the national level.
The Virtues of Decentralization
Yet there are many observers who see tribal politics, warlords and militias as a serious threat to the central government. Seth Jones clearly states “the U.S. assistance to warlords weakened the central government” in the aftermath of 2001. He and others believe that this kind of business is the principal reason why governance in the country has been so poor and the insurgency so strong. This viewpoint has been predominant amongst western deciders and intellectuals.
In fact, it’s the other way around: The poor governance and the resulting insurgency have stemmed from attempts to rule the country from the center in the image of modern states. The U.S. assistance to warlords was always as a last resort, done in an ad hoc fashion, and there was never any follow up to get the warlords in line with the central government. Instead, there is evidence that grassroots efforts, when properly supported, have a greater chance of success.





2AC Answers
Politics
1. AT: Issue-Specific Uniqueness

2. Afghanistan will inevitably tank Obama’s agenda
Boyle, 10 - 1 Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)

On the other side of the Atlantic, however, the debate was framed differently. In September 2009, General Stanley McChrystal delivered a classified report to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates which stated that without a comprehensive counterinsurgency strategy and an additional 40,000 troops for Afghanistan the mission would ‘likely result in failure’.4 This call for additional troops to salvage a military campaign that was not going well—and the memories of Vietnam that it evoked—rattled the war-weary American public and caused unease in Washington. Aware that escalating the war in Afghanistan could lead to a quagmire and derail his domestic agenda, President Obama called for a full review of his options before making a decision on troop deployment. Almost immediately, his critics attacked him for dithering and portrayed the decision facing him as a stark choice between counterterrorism and counterinsurgency.5 His administration was also divided on this issue. While Robert Gates and the Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, were reportedly in favour of General McChrystal’s expanded counterinsurgency plan, the US ambassador to Afghanistan, Karl W. Eikenberry, expressed reservations about deploying more troops in such a capacity.6 VicePresident Joe Biden was even more sceptical about a renewed counterinsurgency campaign and authored a proposal called ‘Counterterrorism Plus’ to convince President Obama that the mission should be limited to targeting Al-Qaeda operatives in Afghanistan.7 Those advocating a counterterrorism approach pointed out that since the US had no legitimate local partner after the flawed elections which returned Hamid Karzai to power, no comprehensive counterinsurgency strategy could be implemented.

3. Winners Win- Controversial domestic wins not only mean more capital in the U.S, but also international victories

Mason, 10 (Jeff, covers the White House for Reuters, covering Barack Obama 26 March, “Obama's health win could boost foreign policy”, http://www.alertnet.org/thenews/newsdesk/N26180856.htm)

WASHINGTON, March 26 (Reuters) - President Barack Obama's domestic success on healthcare reform may pay dividends abroad as the strengthened U.S. leader taps his momentum to take on international issues with allies and adversaries. More than a dozen foreign leaders have congratulated Obama on the new healthcare law in letters and phone calls, a sign of how much attention the fight for his top domestic policy priority received in capitals around the world. Analysts and administration officials were cautious about the bump Obama could get from such a win: Iran is not going to rethink its nuclear program and North Korea is not going to return to the negotiating table simply because more Americans will get health insurance in the coming years, they said. But the perception of increased clout, after a rocky first year that produced few major domestic or foreign policy victories, could generate momentum for Obama's agenda at home and in his talks on a host of issues abroad. "It helps him domestically and I also think it helps him internationally that he was able to win and get through a major piece of legislation," said Stephen Hadley, former national security adviser to Republican President George W. Bush. "It shows political strength, and that counts when dealing with foreign leaders." Obama's deputy national security adviser Ben Rhodes said the Democratic president's persistence in the long healthcare battle added credibility to his rhetoric on climate change, nuclear nonproliferation and other foreign policy goals. "It sends a very important message about President Obama as a leader," Rhodes told Reuters during an interview in his West Wing office. "The criticism has been: (He) sets big goals but doesn't close the deal. So, there's no more affirmative answer to that criticism than closing the biggest deal you have going."

5. Political capital doesn’t influence the passage of legislation – issues are compartmentalized and presidential influence is exaggerated by the media.
Dickinson, 9 – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)

As for Sotomayor, from here the path toward almost certain confirmation goes as follows: the Senate Judiciary Committee is slated to hold hearings sometime this summer (this involves both written depositions and of course open hearings), which should lead to formal Senate approval before Congress adjourns for its summer recess in early August. So Sotomayor will likely take her seat in time for the start of the new Court session on October 5. (I talk briefly about the likely politics of the nomination process below). What is of more interest to me, however, is what her selection reveals about the basis of presidential power. Political scientists, like baseball writers evaluating hitters, have devised numerous means of measuring a president’s influence in Congress. I will devote a separate post to discussing these, but in brief, they often center on the creation of legislative “box scores” designed to measure how many times a president’s preferred piece of legislation, or nominee to the executive branch or the courts, is approved by Congress. That is, how many pieces of legislation that the president supports actually pass Congress? How often do members of Congress vote with the president’s preferences? How often is a president’s policy position supported by roll call outcomes? These measures, however, are a misleading gauge of presidential power – they are a better indicator of congressional power. This is because how members of Congress vote on a nominee or legislative item is rarely influenced by anything a president does.

[Next Page]
Although journalists (and political scientists) often focus on the legislative “endgame” to gauge presidential influence – will the President swing enough votes to get his preferred legislation enacted? – this mistakes an outcome with actual evidence of presidential influence. Once we control for other factors – a member of Congress’ ideological and partisan leanings, the political leanings of her constituency, whether she’s up for reelection or not – we can usually predict how she will vote without needing to know much of anything about what the president wants. (I am ignoring the importance of a president’s veto power for the moment.) Despite the much publicized and celebrated instances of presidential arm-twisting during the legislative endgame, then, most legislative outcomes don’t depend on presidential lobbying. But this is not to say that presidents lack influence. Instead, the primary means by which presidents influence what Congress does is through their ability to determine the alternatives from which Congress must choose. That is, presidential power is largely an exercise in agenda-setting – not arm-twisting. And we see this in the Sotomayer nomination. Barring a major scandal, she will almost certainly be confirmed to the Supreme Court whether Obama spends the confirmation hearings calling every Senator or instead spends the next few weeks ignoring the Senate debate in order to play Halo III on his Xbox. That is, how senators decide to vote on Sotomayor will have almost nothing to do with Obama’s lobbying from here on in (or lack thereof). His real influence has already occurred, in the decision to present Sotomayor as his nominee. If we want to measure Obama’s “power”, then, we need to know what his real preference was and why he chose Sotomayor. My guess – and it is only a guess – is that after conferring with leading Democrats and Republicans, he recognized the overriding practical political advantages accruing from choosing an Hispanic woman, with left-leaning credentials. We cannot know if this would have been his ideal choice based on judicial philosophy alone, but presidents are never free to act on their ideal preferences. Politics is the art of the possible. Whether Sotomayer is his first choice or not, however, her nomination is a reminder that the power of the presidency often resides in the president’s ability to dictate the alternatives from which Congress (or in this case the Senate) must choose. Although Republicans will undoubtedly attack Sotomayor for her judicial “activism” (citing in particular her decisions regarding promotion and affirmative action), her comments regarding the importance of gender and ethnicity in influencing her decisions, and her views regarding whether appellate courts “make” policy, they run the risk of alienating Hispanic voters – an increasingly influential voting bloc (to the extent that one can view Hispanics as a voting bloc!) I find it very hard to believe she will not be easily confirmed. In structuring the alternative before the Senate in this manner, then, Obama reveals an important aspect of presidential power that cannot be measured through legislative boxscores.

6. COIN is increasingly unpopular with Democrats and Republicans
Washington Times, 9 (Kim R. Holmes SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES, 8/20/09, "What's the Big Idea: Obama facing the tests of war in Afghanistan amid elections", lexis)

All this is true. But keeping his promise to win the "good" war in Afghanistan won't be easy. The president will face many tests along the way. Starting now.
The first test is in responding to the outcome of Thursday's elections in Afghanistan. The Obama administration has not yet figured out how to integrate successfully its nation-building efforts at the central government level with the much harder work of dealing with local factions and tribes susceptible to Taliban intimidation.
If the elections simply ratify the status quo in Kabul, the disconnect between central and local governance will likely continue. Corruption is undermining the legitimacy of the Afghan government, and legitimacy is critical in building up a strong Afghan army - as well as U.S. counterinsurgency efforts in the countryside. Until corruption is at least minimized, the war cannot be won.
The second test is whether Mr. Obama will back his new strategy in Afghanistan with the resources needed to make it work. The administration's policy, unveiled in March, puts a high priority on protecting Afghan civilians as part of a counterinsurgency strategy.
There is already pushback from some Democrats who insist the Afghan "quagmire" will cost too much and drain resources from domestic programs. Mr. Obama 's habit of trying to have it both ways - tacking back and forth between tough and soft statements and ultimately splitting the difference on policy - may not convince these Democrats in the long run. Mr. Obama will probably end up trying to keep his liberal critics at bay by giving Gen. Stan McChrystal fewer troops than he needs.
That would produce an ever-worse dilemma down the road. Insufficient troops will minimize battlefield success, ultimately prolonging the war. The longer the war lasts, the more criticism Mr. Obama will face from his political base. Time is not on his side politically, and his antiwar position on Iraq actually puts him in a politically weaker position than former President George W. Bush was on war policies. Mr. Obama 's base is not only more hostile to some of his policies, but far less patient should he make unpopular decisions.
That could lead to Mr. Obama 's third big test - one that could actually be his undoing. Whether the president knows it or not, his biggest allies on Afghanistan are pro-national security conservatives. Yet he still gives defensive speeches, as he did this week before the Veterans of Foreign Wars, attacking Sen. John McCain of Arizona and other conservatives over the war in Iraq.
This makes no sense. If he is serious about winning in Afghanistan, he needs to stop this divisive rhetoric and realize that his Afghan policies face a potential challenge from the right flank as well.
So far, most conservatives are holding strong behind the war effort. But there already are rumblings among some conservatives that "Obama 's war" may not be worth fighting. Far more threatening than traditional isolationist or libertarian antiwar arguments are so-called conservative realists who may conclude that only a minimalist effort is all that is possible - or worse, needed - in Afghanistan. Such people may come to think that the U.S. is caught in the "graveyard of empires," a place where the more we try to do, the worse the problem gets.
It's not that Mr. Obama will face a conservative revolt against the war in Afghanistan. But when he needs conservatives to face down the dovish left wing of his own party, he may not find them eager allies.

7. Turn – current war will force Dems to inevitably abandon Obama
Donnelly, 9- staff writer for CQ weekly (John M. Donnelly, Nov. 23, 2009 “The Costs of Buying Time” http://library.cqpress.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/cqweekly/document.php?id=weeklyreport111-000003253119&type=hitlist&num=0&)

Even as President Obama contemplates how large a force of additional troops to send to Afghanistan, he reflected a growing concern last week that the war will deteriorate into a more protracted and bloody conflict. The president told reporters traveling with him on a weeklong tour of East Asia that he wants an “endgame” to the Afghanistan conflict so he won’t have to hand off the war to his successor. In doing so, Obama clearly indicated that he has his eye on a political clock that might run out in as few as three years. NOT ENOUGH TROOPS: As Marine patrols like the one above try to recapture Taliban-held areas, U.S. commanders are requesting as many as 40,000 more troops to carry out their mission. President Obama says he will give his answer soon. (Source: GETTY IMAGES / JOE RAEDLE.) On Capitol Hill, however, the Afghanistan clock is ticking much faster. With the war now in its ninth year, patience at home is wearing thin. And a growing chorus of lawmakers is now saying Obama has much less time before public support for the war — now below 50 percent — erodes to the point of collapse. The Democrats’ greatest fear is that the tipping point might occur just before the 2010 midterm elections — an awkward convergence of events that may imperil their jobs and jeopardize further congressional support for the war. So as Obama weighs a request from Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, his top commander in Afghanistan, for as many as 40,000 additional combat troops, lawmakers are focusing on their own political liabilities, which are the manifold costs of the conflict — in deaths, in dollars and in the deterioration of the military’s readiness to fight the next war. And they emphatically dismiss Obama’s multi-year time table, warning that whatever strategy he chooses must begin to show real progress by next fall at the latest. Otherwise, they warn, Democrats will abandon him. “He does not have that kind of time,” said Pennsylvania Democrat John P. Murtha, chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, noting that many fellow Democrats rode into Congress on a wave of anti-war sentiment in the last two elections. “This will affect not only his election, this will affect our election.” Already, the number of soldiers who have been killed in Afghanistan is approaching the watershed 1,000 mark, while thousands more have been horribly wounded and disfigured. Such casualty counts don’t include legions of servicemembers who suffer from debilitating psychological wounds that have resulted in catastrophic levels of anguish and suicide. With Obama expected to send over additional troops, all categories of casualties are certain to climb, further taxing public support for the war if the expected buildup doesn’t produce results quickly Lawmakers are also concerned about the financial cost of the Afghanistan fighting. Since U.S. troops invaded the country in late 2001, the war has cost U.S. taxpayers almost $227 billion. Congress is poised to provide almost $73 billion more for continuing operations this fiscal year.
And for every 1,000 additional troops Obama sends to Afghanistan, the price will jump by $1 billion per year. At a time when the nation’s economy is still fragile and unemployment remains high, big increases in defense spending are virtually guaranteed to spark debate over the president’s priorities. And then there is the cost of depleting the military’s readiness to fight in some other corner of the world, if called upon to do so. Almost a decade of fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq has worn down much of the military’s equipment and exhausted its ranks of experienced combat veterans, and the military’s focus on counterinsurgency operations has left it ill-trained for conventional conflicts. Individually, each of these rising costs would generate major concern for lawmakers. Taken together, they confront Congress like a cluster of time bombs, all potentially set to explode in the fall of 2010, or certainly by 2012 if conditions in Afghanistan don’t improve by then. The administration is also mindful of the looming political dangers of a war with too many costs. Last week, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton visited Kabul, where she urged President Hamid Karzai to strengthen his government’s accountability, a move that would give Congress greater confidence in U.S. military efforts there. Right now, the strongest support for the president’s plans for the war comes from Republicans, who have been urging Obama to approve McChrystal’s full troop request. War boosters argue that the 40,000 additional troops will tamp down the violence in Afghanistan and that the resulting stability will, in turn, shore up political support at home, just as George W. Bush’s 2007 surge of forces in Iraq eventually helped mollify critics of that conflict. An Increasingly Dangerous Place: Click Here to View Chart Many Democrats, however, fear the political consequences if a buildup of forces doesn’t produce results, at least before the sands in their political hourglass run out. Although most lawmakers have been supportive of the war in Afghanistan — launched with overwhelming approval by the public and Congress after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks — they cannot ignore recent opinion surveys that for the first time show that half the country feels the war is no longer worth the cost. Congress is unlikely to deny Obama the billions of dollars in appropriations for his troop buildup, which would probably be provided in a supplemental spending bill sometime next year. And experts say Congress
may not deny future increases in spending either. Nonetheless, dampened voter enthusiasm suggests that an increasingly unpopular war would be difficult for the president to wage successfully without considerable political cost to himself and his party, experts say. “Many parts of the Democratic base will be sitting on their hands in the next election because they are so disenchanted,” said John Mueller, a political scientist at Ohio State University and an expert on public opinion in wartime. Still, history shows that Americans can withstand substantial pain if they believe the military is winning a war, said Peter Feaver, a Duke University political scientist who worked on the National Security Council during the Clinton and Bush administrations. A corollary thought is that when Americans become dissatisfied with a war’s progress, either because of increasing violence or mounting casualties, public support erodes. In that light, Obama’s explanation of his new Afghanistan strategy and its benchmarks of progress will be as critical as his decision on additional forces, lawmakers say. “A lot depends on the case that the president makes and the expectations that he sets when he announces his troop deployment decision,” said Susan Collins of Maine, a member the Senate Armed Services Committee and one of the few Republicans who is skeptical about adding forces in Afghanistan. “If he decides to follow Gen. McChrystal’s recommendation, or comes close to it, and presents to Congress and the American people a rationale, people will give him additional time — how long exactly, I don’t know,” she said. “I would think the public would want to see improvement by next year at this time, certainly.” The real drivers of public opinion, of course, will be events in Afghanistan, not presidential speeches. If security doesn’t improve there, more and more voters may abandon a cause they once overwhelmingly supported. “If the Democrats are in trouble come September, October 2010, and it’s viewed as, to a significant extent, because of the war, then I think their constituents are going to argue for a shift,” said Andrew F. Krepinevich Jr., president of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a defense think tank, and an adviser on the Defense Policy Board, a group of outside experts that advises the Pentagon. Eroding Public Support The drop in public support for the war in Afghanistan has coincided with a sharp increase in U.S. military casualties this year. With 293 soldiers killed so far this year, 2009 is on track to become the deadliest year of the war. Indeed, of the 923 U.S. troops killed in Afghanistan since 2001, almost a third

8. Turn- wide support for plan- Dems support military reductions
Agiesta & Cohen, 9 (Jennifer and Jon, Washington Post Staff Writers, “Public Opinion in U.S. Turns Against Afghan War,” The Washington Post,http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/08/19/AR2009081903066.html)

That position gets the backing of 24 percent of those polled, while nearly twice as many, 45 percent, want to decrease the number of military forces there. (Most of the remainder want to keep the level about the same.) In January, before President Obama authorized sending an additional 17,000 troops to the country, public sentiment tilted more strongly toward a troop increase. Should Obama embrace his generals' call for even more forces, he would risk alienating some of his staunchest supporters. Although 60 percent of Americans approve of how Obama has handled the situation in Afghanistan, his ratings among liberals have slipped, and majorities of liberals and Democrats alike now, for the first time, solidly oppose the war and are calling for a reduction in troop levels. Overall, seven in 10 Democrats say the war has not been worth its costs, and fewer than one in five support a


Negative
Kritiks
Security
1NC

A. Discourse of danger. The aff’s construction of threats rigs debate into how best to secure the Self from the Other.
David Grondin, Masters in Political Science & Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, ‘4
(“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies)

Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices in order to disclose what is hidden in the use of concepts such as “national security” have something valuable to say. Their more reflexive and critically-inclined view illustrates how terms used in realist discourses, such as state, anarchy, world order, revolution in military affairs, and security dilemmas, are produced by a specific historical, geographical and socio-political context as well as historical forces and social relations of power (Klein, 1994: 22). Since realist analysts do not question their ontology and yet purport to provide a neutral and objective analysis of a given world order based on military power and interactions between the most important political units, namely states, realist discourses constitute a political act in defense of the state. Indeed, “[…] it is important to recognize that to employ a textualizing approach to social policy involving conflict and war is not to attempt to reduce social phenomena to various concrete manifestations of language. Rather, it is an attempt to analyze the interpretations governing policy thinking. And it is important to recognize that policy thinking is not unsituated” (Shapiro, 1989a: 71). Policy thinking is practical thinking since it imposes an analytic order onthe “real world”, a world that only exists in the analysts’ own narratives. In this light, Barry Posen’s political role in legitimizing American hegemonic power and national security conduct seems obvious:
U.S. command of the commons provides an impressive foundation for selective engagement. It is not adequate for a policy of primacy. […] Command of the commons gives the United States a tremendous capability to harm others. Marrying that capability to a conservative policy of selective engagement helps make U.S. military power appear less threatening and more tolerable. Command of the commons creates additional collective goods for U.S. allies. These collective goods help connect U.S. military power to seemingly prosaic welfare concerns. U.S. military power underwrites world trade, travel, global telecommunications, and commercial remote sensing, which all depend on peace and order in the commons” (Posen, 2003: 44 and 46).
Adopting a more critical stance, David Campbell points out that “[d]anger is not an objective condition. It (sic) is not a thing which exists independently of those to whom it may become a threat. […] Nothing is a risk in itself; [...] it all depends on how one analyses the danger, considers the event” (Campbell, 1998: 1-2). In the same vein, national security discourse does not evaluateobjective threats; rather, it is itself a product of historical processes and structures in the state and society that produces it.Whoever has the power to define security is then the one who has the authority to write legitimate security discourses and conduct the policies that legitimize them. The realistanalysts and state leaders who invoke national security and act in its name are the same individuals who hold the power to securitize threats by inserting them in a discourse that frames national identity and freezes it.9
Like many concepts, realism is essentially contested. In a critical reinterpretation of realism, James Der Derian offers a genealogy of realism that deconstructs the uniform realism represented in IR: he reveals many other versions of realism that are never mentioned in International Relations texts (Der Derian, 1995: 367). I am aware that there are many realist discourses in International Relations, but they all share a set of assumptions, such as “the state is a rational unitary actor”, “the state is the main actor in international relations”, “states pursue power defined as a national interest”, and so on. I want to show that realism is one way of representing reality, not the reflection of reality. While my aim here is not to rehearse Der Derian’s genealogy of realism, I do want to spell out the problems with a positivist theory of realism and a correspondence philosophy of language. Such a philosophy accepts nominalism, wherein language as neutral description corresponds to reality. This is precisely the problem of epistemic realism and of the realism characteristic of American realist theoretical discourses. And since for poststructuralists language constitutes reality, a reinterpretation of realism as constructed in these discourses is called for.10 These scholars cannot refer to the “essentially contested nature of realism” and then use “realism as the best language to reflect a self-same phenomenon” (Der Derian, 1995: 374). Let me be clear: I am not suggesting that the many neorealist and neoclassical realist discourses in International Relations are not useful. Rather, I want to argue that these technicist and scientist forms of realism serve political purposes, used as they are in many think tanks and foreign policy bureaucracies to inform American political leaders. This is the relevance of deconstructing the uniform realism (as used in International Relations): it brings to light its locatedness in a hermeneutic circle in which it is unwittingly trapped (Der Derian, 1995: 371). And as Friedrich Kratochwil argues, “[…] the rejection of a correspondence theory of truth does not condemn us, as it is often maintained, to mere ‘relativism’ and/or to endless “deconstruction” in which anything goes but it leaves us with criteria that allows us to distinguish and evaluate competing theoretical creations” (Kratochwil, 2000 : 52).
Given that political language is not a neutral medium that gives expression to ideas formed independently of structures of signification that sustain political action and thought, American realist discourses belonging to the neorealist or neoclassical realist traditions cannot be taken as mere descriptions of reality. We are trapped in the production of discourses in which national leaders and security speech acts emanating from realist discourses develop and reinforce a notion of national identity as synonymous with national security. U.S. national security conduct should thus be understood through the prism of the theoretical discourses of
American political leaders and realist scholars that co-constitute it. Realist discourses depict American political leaders acting in defense of national security, and political leaders act in the name of national security. In the end, what distinguishes realist discourses is that they depict the United States as having behaved like a national security state since World War II, while legitimating the idea that the United States should continue to do so. Political scientists and historians “are engaged in making (poesis), not merely recording or reporting” (Medhurst, 2000: 17). Precisely in this sense, rhetoric is not the description of national security conduct; it constitutes it.
Writing the National Security State
[F]rom the giddy days of the first and through the most morbid moments of the Second Cold War, the popular culture, journalism, and academic study of international intrigue has been an important intertext of power and play in world politics. This intertext represents a field of ideological contestation where national security strategies, with their endgames of impossibly real wars of mass annihilation can be played and replayed for mass consumption as a simulation of war in which states compete, interests clash, and spy counters spy, all in significant fun (Der Derian, 1992: 41).
It is difficult to trace the exact origins of the concept of “national security”. It seems however that its currency in policymaking circles corresponds to the American experience of the Second World War and of the early years of what came to be known as the “Cold War”. In this light, it is fair to say that the meaning of the American national security state is bound up with the Cold War context.
If one is engaged in deciphering the meaning of the Cold War prism for American leaders, what matters is not uncovering the “reality” of the Cold War as such, but how, it conferred meaning and led people to act upon it as “reality”. The Cold War can thus be seen as a rhetorical construction, in which its rhetorical dimensions gave meaning to its material manifestations, such as the national security state apparatus. This is not to say that the Cold War never existed per se, nor does it “make [it] any less real or less significant for being rhetorical” (Medhurst, 2000: 6). As Lynn Boyd Hinds and Theodore Otto Windt, Jr. stress, “political rhetoric creates political reality, structures belief systems, and provides the fundamental bases for decisions” (Hinds and Windt, cited in Medhurst, 2000: 6). In this sense, the Cold War ceases to be a historical period which meaning can be written permanently and becomes instead a struggle that is not context-specific and not geared towards one specific enemy. It is “an orientation towards difference in which those acting on behalf of an assumed but never fixed identity are tempted by the lure of otherness to interpret all dangers as fundamental threats which require the mobilization of a population” (Campbell, 2000: 227).
Indeed, if the meaning of the Cold War is not context-specific, the concept of national security cannot be disconnected from what is known as the Cold War, since its very meaning(s) emerged within it (Rosenberg, 1993 : 277).11 If the American national security state is a given for realist analysts,12 it is important to ask whether we can conceive the United States during the Cold War as anything other than a national security state.13 To be clear, I am not suggesting that there is any such essentialized entity as a “national security state”.14 When I refer to the American national security state, I mean the representation of the American state in the early years of the Cold War, the spirit of which is embodied in the National Security Act of 1947 (Der Derian, 1992: 76). The term “national security state” designates both an institutionalization of a new governmental architecture designed to prepare the United States politically and militarily to face any foreign threat and the ideology – the discourse – that gave rise to as well as symbolized it. In other words, to understand the idea of a national security state, one needs to grasp the discursive power of national security in shaping the reality of the Cold War in both language and institutions
(Rosenberg, 1993 : 281). A national security state feeds on threats as it channels all its efforts into meeting current and future military or security threats. The creation of the CIA, the Department of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the National Security Council at the onset of the Cold War gave impetus to a state mentality
geared to permanent preparedness for war. The construction of threats is thus essential to its well-being, making intelligence agencies privileged tools in accomplishing this task.
As American historian of U.S. foreign relations Michael Hogan observes in his study on the rise of the national security state during the Truman administration, “the national security ideology framed the Cold War discourse in a system of symbolic representation that defined America’s national identity by reference to the un-American ‘other,’ usually the Soviet Union, Nazi Germany, or some other totalitarian power” (Hogan, 1998: 17). Such a binary system made it difficult for any domestic dissent from U.S. policy to emerge – it would have “amounted to an act of disloyalty” (Hogan, 1998: 18).15 While Hogan distinguishes advocates from critics of the American national security state, his view takes for granted that there is a given and fixed American political culture that differs from the “new” national security ideology. It posits an “American way”, produced by its cultural, political, and historical experience. Although he stresses that differences between the two sides of the discourse are superficial, pertaining solely to the means, rather than the ends of the national security state, Hogan sees the national security state as a finished and legitimate state: an American state suited to the Cold War context of permanent war, while stopping short of a garrison state:
Although government would grow larger, taxes would go up, and budget deficits would become a matter of routine, none of these and other transformations would add up to the crushing regime symbolized in the metaphor of the garrison state. The outcome instead would be an American national security state that was shaped as much by the country’s democratic political culture as it was by the perceived military imperatives of the Cold War (Hogan, 1998: 22).
I disagree with this essentialist view of the state identity of the United States. The United States does not need to be a national security state. If it was and is still constructed as such by many realist discourses, it is because these discourses serve some political purpose. Moreover, in keeping with my poststructuralist inclinations, I maintain that identity need not be, and indeed never is, fixed. In a scheme in which “to say is to do”, that is, from a perspective that accepts the performativity of language, culture becomes a relational site where identity politics happens rather than being a substantive phenomenon. In this sense, culture is not simply a social context framing foreign policy decision-making. Culture is “a signifying part of the conditions of possibility for social being, […] the way in which culturalist arguments themselves secure the identity of subjects in whose name they speak” (Campbell, 1998: 221).
The Cold War national security culture represented in realist discourses was constitutive of the American national security state. There was certainly a conflation of theory and policy in the Cold War military-intellectual complex, which “were observers of, and active participants in, defining the meaning of the Cold War. They contributed to portray the enemy that both reflected and fueled predominant ideological strains within the American body politic. As scholarly partners in the national security state, they were instrumental in defining and disseminating a Cold War culture” (Rubin, 2001: 15). This national security culture was “a complex space where various representations and representatives of the national security state compete to draw the boundaries and dominate the murkier margins of international relations” (Der Derian, 1992: 41). The same Cold War security culture has been maintained by political practice (on the part of realist analysts and political leaders) through realist discourses in the post-9/11 era and once again reproduces the idea of a national security state.
This (implicit) state identification is neither accidental nor inconsequential. From a poststructuralist vantage point, the identification process of the state and the nation is always a negative process for it is achieved by exclusion, violence, and marginalization. Thus, a deconstruction of practices that constitute and consolidate state identity is necessary: the writing of the state must be revealed through the analysis of the discourses that constitute it. The state and the discourses that (re)constitute it thus frame its very identity and impose a fictitious “national unity” on society; it is from this fictive and arbitrary creation of the modernist dichotomous discourses of inside/outside that the discourses (re)constructing the state emerge. It is in the creation of a Self and an Other in which the state uses it monopolistic power of legitimate violence – a power socially constructed, following Max Weber’s work on the ethic of responsibility – to construct a threatening Other differentiated from the “unified” Self, the national society (the nation).16 It is through this very practice of normative statecraft,17 which produces threatening Others, that the international sphere comes into being. David Campbell adds that it is by constantly articulating danger through foreign policy that the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18.

Security discourse causes apocalypse in the name of survival
Peter Coviello, Asst Prof of English – Bowdoin, ‘1
(Queer Frontiers, ed. Boone, author’s italics)

Perhaps. But to claim that American culture is at present decisively postnuclear is not to say that the world we inhabit is in any way post-apocalyptic. Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed – it did not go away. And here I want to hazard my second assertion: if, in the nuclear age of yesteryear, apocalypse signified an event threatening everyone and everything with (in Jacques Derrida’s suitably menacing phrase) “remainderless and a-symbolic destruction,”6 then in the postnuclear world apocalypse is an affair whose parameters are definitively local in shape and in substance, apocalypse is defined now by the affliction it brings somewhere else, always to an “other” people whose very presence might then be written as a kind of dangerous contagion, threatening the safety and the prosperity of a cherished “general population.” This fact seems to me to stand behind Susan Sontag’s incisive observation, from 1989, that, “Apocalypse is now a long-running serial: not ‘Apocalypse Now’ but ‘Apocalypse from Now On.’”7 The decisive point here in the perpetuation of the threat of apocalypse (the point Sontag goes on, at length, to miss) is that apocalypse is ever present because, as an element in a vast economy of power, it is ever useful. That is, through the perpetual threat of destruction – through the constant reproduction of the figure of apocalypse – agencies of power ensure their authority toact on and through the bodies of a particular population. No one turns this point more persuasively than Michel Foucault, who in the final chapter of his first volume of The History of Sexuality addresses himself to the problem of a power that is less repressive than productive, less life-threatening than, in his words, “life-administering.” Power, he contends, “exerts a positive influence on life … [and] endeavors to administer, optimize, and multiply it, subjecting it to precise controls and comprehensive regulations.” In his brief comments on what he calls “the atomic situation,” however, Foucault insists as well that the productiveness of modern power must not be mistaken for a uniform repudiation of violent or even lethal means. For as “managers of life and survival, of bodies and the race,” agencies of modern power presume to act “on the behalf of the existence of everyone.” Whatsoever might beconstrued as a threat to life and survival serves to authorize any expression of force, no matter how invasive or, indeed, potentially annihilating. “If genocide is indeed the dream of modern power,” Foucault writes, “this is not because of a recent return to the ancient right to kill; it is because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population.”8 For a state that would arm itself not with the power to kill its population, but with a more comprehensive power over the patterns and functioning of its collective life, the threat of an apocalyptic demise, nuclear orotherwise, seems a civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.

Vote neg to critique the aff’s security discourse as a prior question
Graeme Cheeseman, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce, ‘96
(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)

This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual milieu of international relations in Australia, even though they are gaining influence worldwide as traditional modes of theory and practice are rendered inadequate by global trends that defy comprehension, let alone policy. The inability to give meaning to global changes reflects partly the enclosed, elitist world of professional security analysts and bureaucratic experts, where entry is gained by learning and accepting to speak a particular, exclusionary language. The contributors to this book are familiar with the discourse, but accord no privileged place to its ‘knowledge form as reality’ in debates on defence and security. Indeed, they believe that debate will be furthered only through a long overdue critical re-evaluation of elite perspectives. Pluralistic, democratically-oriented perspectives on Australia’s identity are both required and essential if Australia’s thinking on defence and security is to be invigorated.
This is not a conventional policy book; nor should it be, in the sense of offering policy-makers and their academic counterparts sets of neat alternative solutions, in familiar language and format, to problems they pose. This expectation is in itself a considerable part of the problem to be analysed. It is, however, a book about policy, one that questions how problems are framed by policy-makers. It challenges the proposition that irreducible bodies of real knowledge on defence and security exist independently of their ‘context in the world’, and it demonstrates how security policy is articulated authoritatively by the elite keepers of that knowledge, experts trained to recognize enduring, universal wisdom. All others, from this perspective, must accept such wisdom or remain outside the expert domain, tainted by their inability to comply with the ‘rightness’ of the official line. But it is precisely the official line, or at least its image of the world, that needs to be problematised. If the critic responds directly to the demand for policy alternatives, without addressing this image, he or she is tacitly endorsing it. Before engaging in the policy debate the critics need to reframe the basic terms of reference. This book, then, reflects and underlines the importance of Antonio Gramsci and Edward Said’s ‘critical intellectuals’.15
The demand, tacit or otherwise, that the policy-maker’s frame of reference be accepted as the only basis for discussion and analysis ignores a three thousand year old tradition commonly associated with Socrates and purportedly integral to the Western tradition of democraticdialogue. More immediately, it ignores post-seventeenth century democratic traditions which insist that a good society must have within it some way of critically assessing its knowledge and the decisions based upon that knowledge which impact upon citizens of such a society. This is a tradition with a slightly different connotation in contemporary liberal democracies which, during the Cold War, were proclaimed different and superior to the totalitarian enemy precisely because there were institutional checks and balances upon power. In short, one of the major differences between ‘open societies’ and their (closed) counterparts behind the Iron Curtain was that the former encouraged the critical testing of the knowledge and decisions of the powerful and assessing them against liberal democratic principles. The latter tolerated criticism only on rare and limited occasions. For some, this represented the triumph of rational-scientific methods of inquiry and techniques of falsification. For others, especially since positivism and rationalism have lost much of their allure, it meant that for society to become open and liberal, sectors of the population must be independent of the state and free to question its knowledge and power. Though we do not expect this position to be accepted by every reader, contributors to this book believe that critical dialogue is long overdue in Australia and needs to be listened to. For all its liberal democratic trappings, Australia’s security community continues to invoke closed monological narratives on defence and security.
This book also questions the distinctions between policy practice and academic theory that inform conventional accounts of Australian security. One of its major concerns, particularly in chapters 1 and 2, is to illustrate how theory is integral to the practice of security analysis and policy prescription. The book also calls on policy-makers, academics and students of defence and security to thinkcritically about what they are reading, writing and saying; to begin to ask, of their work and study, difficult and searching questions raised in other disciplines; to recognise, no matter how uncomfortable it feels, that what is involved in theory and practice is not the ability to identify a replacement for failed models, but a realisation that terms and concepts – state sovereignty, balance of power, security, and so on – are contested and problematic, and that the world is indeterminate, always becoming what is written about it. Critical analysis which shows how particular kinds of theoretical presumptions can effectively exclude vital areas of political life from analysis has direct practical implications for policy-makers, academics and citizens who face the daunting task of steering Australia through some potentially choppy international waters over the next few years. There is also much of interest in the chapters for those struggling to give meaning to a world where so much that has long been taken for granted now demands imaginative, incisive reappraisal. The contributors, too, have struggled to find meaning, often despairing at the terrible human costs of international violence. This is why readers will find no single, fully formed panacea for the world’s ills in general, or Australia’s security in particular. There are none. Every chapter, however, in its own way, offers something more than is found in orthodox literature, often by exposing ritualistic Cold War defence and security mind-sets that are dressed up as new thinking. Chapters 7 and 9, for example, present alternative ways of engaging in security and defence practice. Others (chapters 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8) seek to alert policy-makers, academics and students toalternative theoretical possibilities which might better serve an Australian community pursuing security and prosperity in an uncertain world. All chapters confront the policy community and its counterparts in the academy with a deep awareness of the intellectual and material constraints imposed by dominant traditions of realism, but they avoid dismissive and exclusionary terms which often in the past characterized exchanges between policy-makers and their critics. This is because, as noted earlier, attention needs to be paid to the words and the thought processes of those being criticized. A close reading of this kind draws attention to underlying assumptions, showing they need to be recognized and questioned. A sense of doubt (in place of confident certainty) is a necessary prelude to a genuine search for alternative policies. First comes an awareness of the need for new perspectives, then specific policies may follow.
As Jim George argues in the following chapter, we need to look not so much at contending policies as they are made for us but at challenging ‘the discursive process which gives [favoured interpretations of “reality”] their meaning and which direct [Australia’s] policy/analytical/military responses’. This process is not restricted to the small, official defence and security establishment huddled around the US-Australian War Memorial in Canberra. It also encompasses much of Australia’s academic defence and security community located primarily though not exclusively within the Australian National University and the University College of the University of New South Wales. These discursive processes are examined in detail in subsequent chapters as authors attempt to make sense of a politics of exclusion and closure which exercises disciplinary power over Australia’s security community. They also question the discourse of ‘regional security’, ‘security cooperation’, ‘peacekeeping’ and ‘alliance politics’ that are central to Australia’s official and academic security agenda in the 1990s. This is seen as an important task especially when, as is revealed, the disciplines of International Relations and Strategic Studies are under challenge from critical and theoretical debates ranging across the social sciences and humanities; debates that are nowhere to be found in Australian defence and security studies. The chapters graphically illustrate how Australia’s public policies on defence and security are informed, underpinned and legitimised by a narrowly-based intellectual enterprise which draws strength from contested concepts of realism and liberalism, which in turn seek legitimacy through policy-making processes. Contributors ask whether Australia’s policy-makers and their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?

Specific Links
China

Constructing China as a dangerous Other makes systemic violence against it inevitable.

Chengxin Pan, Lecturer in International Relations and School Honours Coordinator, Peking University and Australian National University, PhD in Political Science and International Relations, visiting scholar at the University of Melbourne, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, member of the International Studies Association, Chinese Studies Association of Australia, editoral board of Series in International Relations Classics, 2004, (The “China Threat” in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, Alternations 29 (2004), p. 306)
It is mainly on the basis of this self-fashioning that many U.S. scholars have for long claimed their "expertise" on China. For example, from his observation (presumably on Western TV networks) of the Chinese protest against the U.S. bombing of their embassy in Belgrade in May 1999, Robert Kagan is confident enough to speak on behalf of the whole Chinese people, claiming that he knows "the fact" of "what [China] really thinks about the United States." That is, "they consider the United States an enemy— or, more precisely, the enemy. . . . How else can one interpret the Chinese government's response to the bombing?" he asks, rhetorically. For Kagan, because the Chinese "have no other information" than their government's propaganda, the protesters cannot rationally "know" the whole event as "we" do. Thus, their anger must have been orchestrated, unreal, and hence need not be taken seriously.^^ Given that Kagan heads the U.S. Leadership Project at
the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and is very much at the heart of redefining the United States as the benevolent global hegemon, his confidence in speaking for the Chinese "other" is perhaps not surprising. In a similar vein, without producing in-depth analysis, Bernstein and Munro invoke with great ease such all-encompassing notions as "the Chinese tradition" and its "entire three-thousandyear history. "59 In particular, they repeatedly speak of what China's
"real" goal is: "China is an unsatisfied and ambitious power whose goal is to dominate Asia. . . . China aims at achieving a kind of hegemony. . . . China is so big and so naturally powerful that [we know] it will tend to dominate its region even if it does not intend to do so as a matter of national policy."^^ Likewise, with the goal of absolute security for the United States in mind, Richard Betts and Thomas Christensen argue: The truth is that China can pose a grave problem even if it does not become a military power on the American model, does not intend to commit aggression, integrates into a global economy, and liberalizes politically. Similarly, the United States could face a dangerous conflict over Taiwan even if it turns out that Beijing lacks the capacity to conquer the island. . . . This is true because of geography; because of America's reliance on alliances to project power; and because of China's capacity to harm U.S. forces, U.S. regional allies, and the American homeland, even while losing a war in the technical, military sense. By now, it seems clear that neither China's capabilities nor intentions really matter. Rather, almost by its mere geographical existence, China has been qualified as an absolute strategic "other," a discursive construct from which it cannot escape. Because of this, "China" in U.S. IR discourse has been objectified and deprived of its own subjectivity and exists mainly in and/or the U.S. self. Little wonder that for many U.S. China specialists, China becomes merely a "national security concern" for the United States, with the "severe disproportion between the keen attention to China as a security concern and the intractable neglect of China's [own] security concerns
in the current debate." At this point, at issue here is no longer whether the "China threat" argument is true or false, but is rather its reflection of a shared positivist mentality among mainstream China experts that they know China better than do the Chinese themselves. "We" alone can know for sure that they consider "us" their enemy and thus pose a menace to "us." Such an account of China, in many ways, strongly seems to resemble Orientalists' problematic distinction between the West and the Orient. Like orientalism, the U.S. construction of the Chinese "other" does not require that China acknowledge the validity of that dichotomous construction. Indeed, as Edward Said point out, "It is enough for 'us' to set up these distinctions in our own minds; [and] 'they' become 'they' accordingly. " It may be the case that there is nothing inherently wrong with
perceiving others through one's own subjective lens. Yet, what is problematic with mainstream U.S. China watchers is that they refuse to acknowledge the legitimacy of the inherent fluidity of Chinese identity and subjectivity and try instead to fix its ambiguity as absolute difference from "us," a kind of certainty that denotes nothing but otherness and threats. As a result, it becomes difficult to find a legitimate space for alternative ways of understanding an inherently volatile, amorphous China or to recognize that China's future trajectory in global politics is contingent essentially on how "we" in the United States and the West in general want to see it as well as on how the Chinese choose to shape it.^^ Indeed, discourses of "us" and "them" are always closely linked to how "we" as "what we are" deal with "them" as "what they are" in the practical realm. This is exactly how the discursive strategy of perceiving China as a threatening other should be understood, a point addressed in the following section, which explores some of the practical dimension of this discursive strategy in the containment perspectives and hegemonic ambitions of U.S. foreign policy.

AT: Perm

Net benefits and initial framing kill critique
Roland Bleiker, Associate Professor – University of Queensland, ‘1
(The Zen of International Relations, “Forget IR Theory,” p. 37-9)

Stories, so we are told by prevailing social science wisdom, are not part of international relations (IR) scholarship. Stories belong to the realm of fiction, not the deomain of fact. And yet, stories freely whiz in and out of IR. Indeed, if we look more carefully, IR appears as nothing but a set of narratives that provide us with meaning and coherence. Consider how critical scholars increasingly portray the locus classicus of IR – the state, that is – not only as an institution, but also, and primarily, as a series of stories. These stories, Michael Shapiro points out, are part of a legitimization process that highlights, promotes and naturalises certain political practices and the territorial context within which they take place. Taken together, these stories provide the state with a sense of identity, coherence and unity. They create boundaries between an insider and an outside, between a people and its Others. But by virtue of what they are and do, state-stories also exclude, for they seek “to repress or delegitimise other stories and practices of identity and space they reflect.”3
Of course, the prevailing IR stories have not gone unchallenged. Since the early 1980s, IR has come under harsh criticism. We have heard not only of state-centrism, but also of masculine values, structural determinism, ethnocentrism, positivism, and indeed, of the refusal to engage altogether in epistemological debates.4 And yet, orthodox approaches to IR appear surprisingly resilient, or so at least they present themselves. Many IR scholars who occupy key positions in the Western academy, particularly in North America, unwaveringly pursue the same research agendas. They reaffirm the realist dilemmas that allegedly arise from the anarchical character of the international system, contemplate the role of regimes and international institutions, or revisit one more time the issue of absolute versus relative gains.5 What accounts for this surprising resilience of entrenched IR stories? Are prevalent realist and liberal stories simply more convincing than others?
The power to tell stories is the power to define common sense. Prevalent IR stories have been told for so long that they no longer appear as stories. They are accepted as fact, for their metaphorical dimensions have vanished from our collective memories. We have become accustomed to our distorting IR metaphors until we come to lie, as Nietzsche would say, ‘herd-like in a style obligatory for all’.6 As a result, dominant IR stories have successfully transformed one specific interpretation of world political realities, the realist one, into realityper se.7 Realist perceptions of the international have gradually become accepted as common sense, to the point that any critique against them has to be evaluated in terms of an already existing and objectivised world view. There are powerful mechanisms of control precisely in this ability to determine meaning and rationality. ‘Defining common sense’, Steve Smith argues, ‘is the ultimate act of political power.’8 It separates the possible from the impossible and directs the theory and practice of international relations on a particular path.
The prime objective of this essay is to challenge prevalent IR stories. The most effective way of doing so, the chapter argues, is not to critique these stories, but to forget them, to tell new stories about world politics – stories that are not constrained by the boundaries of established and objectified IR narratives. Such an approach diverges from many critical engagements with world politics. Most challenges against dominant IR stories have been advanced in the form of critiques. While critiquing orthodox IR stories remains an important task, it is not sufficient. Exploring the origin of problems, in this case discourses of power politics and their positivist framing of political practice, cannot overcome all the existing theoretical and practical dilemmas. By articulating critique in relation to arguments advanced by orthodox IR theory, the impact of critical voices remains confined within the larger discursive boundaries that have been established through the initial framing of debates. A successful challenge of orthodox IR stories must do more than merely critique their narrow and problematic nature. To be effective, critique must be supplemented with a process of forgetting the object of critique, of theorizing world politics beyond the agendas, issues and terminologies that are preset by orthodox debates. Indeed, the most powerful potential of critical scholarship may well lie in the attempt to tell different stories about IR, for once these stories have become validated, they may well open up spaces for a more inclusive and less violence-prone practice of world politics.

Gospel
1NC

Totalizing ideologies that order human existence enable endless violence, dehumanization, and kill value to life
Odysseos, IR @ the University of Sussex, March ‘8(Dr. Louiza, Against Ethics? Iconographies of Enmity and Acts of Obligation in Carl Schmitt’s Theory of the Partisan,” http://www.louizaodysseos.org.uk/resources/Odysseos+ISA+2008+Against+Ethics.pdf) Most importantly, and related to this concern, there is the relation of the concept of humanity to ‘the other’, and to war and violence. In its historical location, the humanity concept had critical purchase against aristocratic prerogatives; yet its utilisation by liberal ethical discourses within a philosophy of an ‘absolute humanity’, Schmitt feared, could bring about new and unimaginable modes of exclusion (1996a, 2003, 2004/2007):By virtue of its universality and abstract normativity, it has no localizable polis, no clear distinction between what is inside and what is outside. Does humanity embrace all humans? Are there no gates to the city and thus no barbarians outside? If not, against whom or what does it wage its wars? (Rasch 2003: 135).‘Humanity as such’, Schmitt noted, ‘cannot wage war because it has no enemy’, (1996a: 54), indicating that humanity ‘is a polemical word that negates its opposite’ (Kennedy 1998: 94; emphasis added). In The Concept of the Political Schmitt argued that humanity ‘excludes the concept of the enemy, because the enemy does not cease to be a human being’ (1996a: 54). However, in his 1950 book with an international focus, The Nomos of the Earth, Schmitt noted how only when ‘man appeared to be the embodiment of absolute humanity, did the other side of this concept appear in the form of a new enemy: the inhuman’ (2003a: 104). It becomes apparent that, historically examined, the concept of humanity engenders a return to a ‘discriminatory concept of war’, by which Schmitt meant that itreintroduces the legitimacy and need for substantive causes of justice in war (Schmitt 2003b: 37-52). This in turn disallows the notion of justus hostis, of a ‘just enemy’ – explored in section three – associated with the notion of non-discriminatory interstate war which took the shape of guerre en forme (Schmitt 2003a: 142-144). The concept of humanity, therefore, shatters the formal concept of justus hostis, allowing the enemy to now be designated substantively as an enemy of humanity as such. This leaves the enemy of humanity with no value and open to dehumanisation and political and physical annihilation (Schmitt 2004: 67). In discussing the League of Nations, Schmitt highlights that, compared to the kinds of wars that can be waged on behalf of humanity, the interstate European wars from 1815 to 1914 in reality were regulated; they were bracketed by the neutral Great Powers and were completely legal procedures in comparison with the modern and gratuitous police actions against violators of peace, which can be dreadful acts of annihilation (Schmitt 2003a: 186).Enemies of humanity cannot be considered ‘just and equal’. Moreover, they cannot claim neutrality: one cannot remain neutral in the call to be for or against humanity or its freedom; one cannot, similarly, claim a right to resist or defend oneself, in the sense we understand this right to have existed in the international law of Europe (the jus publicum Europeaum). Such a denial of self-defence and resistance ‘can presage a dreadful nihilistic destruction of all law’ (ibid.: 187). When the enemy is not accorded a procedural justice and formal equality, the notion that peace can be made with him is unacceptable, as Schmitt detailed through his study of the League of Nations, which had declared the abolition of war, but in rescinding the concept of neutrality only succeeded in the ‘dissolution of “peace”’ (ibid.: 246). It is with the dissolution of peace that total wars of annihilation become possible, where ‘the other’ cannot be assimilated, or accommodated, let alone tolerated: the friend/enemy distinction is not longer taking place with a justus hostis but rather between good and evil, human and inhuman, where ‘the negative pole of the distinction is to be fully and finally consumed without remainder’ (Rasch 2003: 137). Vote neg to embrace political discourses and solutions – it avoids simplified, reactionary viewpoints in favor of nuanced thoughtOdysseos, IR @ the University of Sussex, March ‘8(Dr. Louiza, Against Ethics? Iconographies of Enmity and Acts of Obligation in Carl Schmitt’s Theory of the Partisan,” http://www.louizaodysseos.org.uk/resources/Odysseos+ISA+2008+Against+Ethics.pdf) Such critiques, however, do not negate that there exists ‘an urgent plea for a universal morality’ (Nielsen 1966: 545; cf. Cochran 1999: 206; Booth 1999: 53). Put otherwise, these objections and critiques do not actually articulate the impossibility of an ethics. They are not tantamount to a denial of its need or possibility but variably suggest other, better, paths to ethics: ontological ethics (Benso 1994), originary ethics (Caputo 1989), dialogical ethics (Coles 1992) etc.: that ethics might lie, in other words, in an ‘openness’ (in the sense of disposition, sensibility or even obligation) towards the other (Campbell 1994, 1996; Warner 1996; Odysseos 2003, 2007a). Even political realists are really idealists of prudence. Ethics holds us in captivity to it: we have, as John Caputo accuses Emmanuel Levinas, ‘made ethics into a holy of holies, an inviolable inner sanctum, pure and uncontaminated’ (1993: 125). Yet, the situation is far more ‘polymorphic’ andthere are other ‘games’ to play: there is politics, Caputo says (ibid.). Coming from a philosopher particularly interested in the question of ethics (cf. Scott 1990) and working intensively in the Heideggerian and Levinasian traditions, this declaration against (universal, originary, fundamental, etc.) ethics is important. Caputo moves from the question of ethics to the possibility of a notion of obligation that cannot be contained within ethics, which shatters ethics (1993). Caputo’s injunction begs the question: might we conceive of a different trajectory? Can we today speak against ethics, hope for an anti-ethics? This paper situates itself in much this vein of thinking, yet by further specifying and refocussing its domain of concern: to speak against ethics, to hope for an anti-ethics, is to listen to the demands of and for politics. The paper examines Carl Schmitt’s particular, if increasingly familiar, critique of universal ethics. This critique argues that, in as much as ethics is predicated on the discourse of a universal humanity (and its human rights), it produces and objectifies the other as the inhuman, which then becomes the proper object of annihilation as the enemy of humanity (Schmitt 1996a, 2003, 2004; Rasch 2003; Odysseos 2007b). The paper extends this critique to include the ways in which the discourse of humanity transforms itself in the era of global governmentality into ‘biopolitical care of the living’, taking ‘population’ as its privileged object (Foucault 2001, 2007a), and leading to an governmental stance that the paper analyses as the ethics and politics of the subject of (enforced) freedom. Inherent, too, in this governmental transformation of universal ethics is the figure of the enemy.

AT: Perm﻿

The plan’s universalist mentality destroys the alt
Odysseos, IR @ the University of Sussex, March ‘8
(Dr. Louiza, Against Ethics? Iconographies of Enmity and Acts of Obligation in Carl Schmitt’s Theory of the Partisan,” http://www.louizaodysseos.org.uk/resources/Odysseos+ISA+2008+Against+Ethics.pdf)

In The Concept of the Political Schmitt had already indicted the increased usage of the terminology of ‘humanity’ by both theorists and institutional actors such as the League of Nations (1996a). His initial critique allows us to illuminate four distinct criticisms against contemporary world politics’ ethical recourse to the discourse of humanity (cf. Odysseos 2007b). The first objection arises from the location of this discourse in the liberal universe of values. By using the discourse of humanity, the project of a universal ethics reverberates with the nineteenth century ‘ringing proclamations of disinterested liberal principle’ (Gowan 2003: 53) through which ‘liberalism quite successfully conceals its politics, which is the politics of getting rid of politics’ (Dyzenhaus 1998: 14). For Schmitt, the focus of liberal modernity on moral questions aims to ignore or surpass questions of conflict altogether: it is therefore ‘the battle against the political - as Schmitt defines the political’, in terms of the permanency of social antagonism in politics (Sax 2002: 501).
The second criticism argues that ‘humanity is not a political concept, and no political entity corresponds to it. The eighteenth century humanitarian concept of humanity was a polemical denial of the then existing aristocratic feudal system and the privileges accompanying it’ (Schmitt 1996a: 55). Outside of this historical location, where does it find concrete expression but in the politics of a politically neutral ‘international community’ which acts, we are assured, in the interest of humanity? (cf. Blair 1999). The ‘international community is coextensive with humanity…[it]possesses the inherent right to impose its will…and to punish its violation, not because of a treaty, or a pact or a covenant, but because of an international need’, a need which it can only determine as the ‘secularized “church” of “common humanity”’ (Rasch 2003: 137, citing James Brown Scott).2
A third objection, still, has to do with the imposition of particular kind of monism: despite the lip-service to plurality, taken from the market (Kalyvas 1999), ‘liberal pluralism is in fact not in the least pluralist but reveals itself to be an overriding monism, the monism of humanity’ (Rasch 2003: 136). Similarly, current universalist perspectives, while praising ‘customary’ or cultural differences, think of them ‘but as ethical or aesthetic material for a unified polychromatic culture – a new singularity born of a blending and merging of multiple local constituents’ (Brennan 2003: 41). One oft-discussed disciplining effect is that, politically, the ethics of a universal humanity shows little tolerance for what is regarded as ‘intolerant’ politics, which is any politics that moves in opposition to its ideals, rendering political opposition to it illegitimate (Rasch 2003: 136). This is compounded by the fact that liberal ethical discourses are also defined by a claim to their own exception and superiority. They naturalise the historical origins of liberal societies, which are no longer regarded as ‘contingently established and historically conditioned forms of organization’; rather, they ‘become the universal standard against which other societies are judged. Those found wanting are banished, as outlaws, from the civilized world. Ironically
, one of the signs of their outlaw status is their insistence on autonomy, on sovereignty’ (ibid.: 141; cf. Donnelly 1998).


Counterplans
MTCR
1NC

Text: The United States federal government should [PLAN] if and only if the People’s Republic of China adheres to the export control and behavior standards of the Missile Technology Control Regime.
Contention One – Solvency Positive incentives from the U.S. are key to Chinese MTCR complianceMoltz 1997 (James Clay Moltz, PhD, Assoc. Prof. Nat’l Security Affairs @ Naval Postgraduate School, “Missile Proliferation in East Asia: Arms Control vs. TMD Responses,” in the Nonproliferation Review, Summer, http://cns.miis.edu/npr/pdfs/moltz43.pdf) Another area where Chinese behavior has clashed with U.S. policies has been in sale of missile technologies, especially toIran, Pakistan, and other states which Washington regards as having dangerous proliferation intentions. Therefore, another missile initiative worth discussing with China would be new CBMs that would put teeth into Chinese promises regarding the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR). To date, U.S. efforts have largely failed in this regard. The problem relates in part to the lack of positive incentives offered by the United States to date in areas that China cares about. If Washington agreed to halt arms sales of TMD technologies to Taiwan, however, it is likely that Beijing would begin to treat more seriously U.S. efforts to reach a quid pro quo on halting exports of missile technology to countries of U.S. concern Contention Two – Prolif China’s the key supplier of tech to Pakistan – only diplomacy can stop this – sanctions empirically failKan 2009 (Shirley A. Kan, specialist in Asian Security Affairs, works in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division of the Congressional Research Service, “China and Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction and Missiles: Policy Issues,” in CRS Report for US Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL31555.pdf) Congress has long been concerned about whether U.S. policy advances the national interest in reducing the role of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and missiles that could deliver them.Recipients of China’s technology reportedly include Pakistan and countries that the State Department says support terrorism, such as Iran and North Korea. This CRS Report, updated as warranted, discusses the security problem of China’s role in weapons proliferation and issues related to the U.S. policy response since the mid-1990s. China has taken some steps to mollify U.S. and other foreign concerns about its role in weapons proliferation. Nonetheless, supplies from China have aggravated trends that result in ambiguous technical aid, more indigenous capabilities, longer-range missiles, and secondary (retransferred) proliferation. According to unclassified intelligence reports submitted as required to Congress, China has been a “key supplier” of technology to North Korea, Iran, and Pakistan for use in programs to develop ballistic missiles, chemical weapons, or nuclear weapons. Policy issues in seeking PRC cooperation have concerned summits, sanctions, and satellite exports. On November 21, 2000, the Clinton Administration agreed to waive missile proliferation sanctions, resume processing licenses to export satellites to China, and discuss an extension of the bilateral space launch agreement, in return for another promise from China on missile nonproliferation. However, continued PRC proliferation activities again raised questions about sanctions. In contrast to the Clinton Administration, the Bush Administration repeatedly imposed sanctions on PRC “entities” for troublesome transfers. Since 1991, the United States has imposed sanctions on 26 occasions on over 30 different PRC “entities” (not the government) for transfers (related to missiles and chemical weapons) to Pakistan, Iran, or another country, including repeated sanctions on some “serial proliferators.” Among those sanctions, in September 2001, the Administration imposed missile proliferation sanctions that effectively denied satellite exports (for two years), after a PRC company transferred technology to Pakistan, despite the November 2000 promise. In September 2003, the State Department imposed additional sanctions on NORINCO, a defense industrial entity, effectively denying satellite exports to China. However, for six times, the State Department waived this sanction for the ban on imports of other PRC government products related to missiles, space systems, electronics, andmilitary aircraft, and issued a permanent waiver in March 2007.Skeptics question whether China’s cooperation in weapons nonproliferation has warranted the U.S. pursuit of closer bilateral ties, even as sanctions were required against some PRC supplies of sensitive technology. Some question the imposition of numerous U.S. sanctions targeting PRC “entities” but not the PRC government. Others question the effectiveness of any stress on sanctions over diplomacy. Since 2002, the United States has relied on China’s “considerable influence” on North Korea to dismantle its nuclear weapons and praised its role, but Beijing has hosted the “Six-Party Talks” with limited results, while the United States also resumed bilateral negotiations with North Korea. China has evolved to vote for some U.N. Security Council sanctions against nuclear proliferation in North Korea and Iran. But it also has maintained balanced positions on North Korea and Iran, including questionable enforcement of sanctions and business as usual (particularly energy deals). Some have called for pressing Beijing to use effective leverage against Pyongyang and Tehran. However, North Korea’s second nuclear test in May 2009 prompted greater debate about the importance of China and the Six-Party Talks. Still, at a summit in Beijing on November 17, 2009, President Obama discussed China’s “support” for nuclear nonproliferation in North Korea and Iran. This causes an Indo-Pak conflict that escalates to global nuclear war – it’s the most probable scenarioBlank 2009 (Stephen J. Blank, Assoc. Prof. Soviet Studies at the Center for Aerospace Doctrine – Maxwell Air Force Base, SSI expert on the Soviet bloc and post-Soviet world, Prospects for U.S.-Russian Security Cooperation, March, Strategic Studies Institute, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB892.pdf) Other reasons for concern about cruise missiles relate to developments like the Ukrainian revelation in 2005 of illicit missile transfers of the Kh-55 cruise missile, a long-range nuclear-capable cruise missile (NATO designation AS-15 Kent) to Iran and China, and the Indo-Russian joint Brahmos project. The Kh-55 has a range of 2-300Km at subsonic speed with high precision, and represented Irano-Chinese access to a higher level of technological sophistication than was previously the case. The Brahmos (PJ-10) is a supersonic anti-ship ramjet-powered cruise missile and has a 300Km range and identical configuration for land-sea, 190 and sub-sea launching platforms.77 The spread of these systems and the fact that countries as diverse as Sweden, France, China, and Taiwan were working on advanced cruise missiles in 2005, underscore the porosity of existing anti-proliferation regimes, including the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR), and the ensuing rising threat from missile proliferation which has continued without letup since 2005.78Furthermore Gormley’s evidence of trends in cruise missiles proliferation and improvements to them underscores the danger of missile and nuclear proliferation from another angle. According to his evidence, “signs of a missile contagion abound.” Pakistan surprised the world by test launching Tomahawk look-alike cruise missiles. India, together with Russia, is developing the Brahmos supersonic cruise missile, which will have the capability to strike targets at sea or over land to a range of 290 kilometers.In East Asia, China, Taiwan, and South Korea are rushing to develop and deploy new Land Attack Cruise Missiles (LACMs) with ranges of 1,000Km or more, while Japan is contemplating the development of a LACM for “preemptive” strikes against enemy missile bases. In the Middle East, Israel was once the sole country possessing LACMs, but now Iran appears to be pursuing cruise missile programs for both land and sea attack. Iran has also provided the terrorist group Hezbollah with unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and sophisticated anti-ship cruise missiles, one of which severely damaged an Israeli vessel and killed four soldiers during the 2006 war in Lebanon. In April 2005, Ukraine’s export agency unveiled plans to market a new LACM called Korshun. The design of this new missile appears to be based solely on the Russian Kh55, a nuclear-capable, 3,000Km-range LACM, which 191 Ukrainian and Russian arms dealers had illegally sold to China in 2000 and Iran in 2001.79When we bear in mind what Lennox had to say about the impact of the illicit Kh-55 transfers, the dangers of that particular missile or its Ukrainian “clone” become quite real. Furthermore, as Gormley points out this “epidemic” or “contagion” could not have happened without the willing participation of other parties. Thus, Chinese fingerprints are all over Pakistan’s newly tested LACM, while Russian engineering is known to have enabled China to produce a workable propulsion system for its new LACMs. Russian technical assistance, formalized in a joint production agreement, has helped India to produce and deploy its first cruise missile, the supersonic Brahmos. Iran’s three new cruise missile programs depend heavily on foreign-trained engineers who honed their skills in France, Germany, Russia, China, and North Korea. Thus while the flow of technology components is necessary, it is not sufficient to enable cruise missile proliferation without the critical support of a small and exceptionally skilled group of engineering practitioners.80Certainly such trends raise the question of missile defenses, but they should also stimulate greater cooperation against missile and nuclear proliferation. And it is not only a question of missile defenses. As we shall see, in South and East Asia, for example, states and governments are also trying to counter their rivals’ offensive missile programs by developing their own “superior” programs whereby both sides rely on a purely offensive missile capability race against their rivals. Moreover, the universality of these trends makes clear that it is not only in the Middle East that we must worry about proliferation.192 For example, we find this competitive offense model in East Asia. Because of its concerns about the consequences of the DPRK’s proliferation, Washington, in 2001 persuaded Seoul to accept a 300Km range and 500Kg payload limit on ballistic missiles as a condition of South Korea’s entry into the MTCR. Yet Washington allowed Seoul to develop LACMs with no conditions. The consequences were not long in coming, especially as South Korea, mindful of Chinese pressure, the costs involved, and its own strategic vulnerability to North Korea, has rejected participation in the U.S. missile defense system and the U.S. proposals to sell it the Patriot missile defense system. As Gormley notes,Shortly after Pyongyang’s October 2006 nuclear test, South Korean military authorities leaked the existence of three LACM programs, involving ranges of 500Km, 1,000Km, and 1,500Km. The South Korean press took immediate note of the fact that not just all of North Korea would be within range of these missiles, but also neighboring countries, including Japan and China. Nearly simultaneously Seoul’s military rolled out a new defense plan, involving preemptive use of “surgical strike” weapons, including its LACMs, against enemy missile batteries.81The same kind of dominance of the offensive based on mutual deterrence, an inherently hostile posture between two states armed with missiles, not to mention nuclear missiles, is occurring in Taiwan. Although Washington has successfully persuaded Taiwan to steer clear of ballistic missiles, faced with China’s relentless buildup of conventional missiles against it, Taiwan bought Patriots but demurred from buying the latest U.S. hit-to-kill missile defense due to the Chinese buildup and the cost of the U.S. system. Instead, it started developing its own LACMs in 2005, originally 193 with a range of 500Km, but with the intention of ultimately deploying 500 of them with ranges of 1,000 Km on mobile launchers. Taiwanese military leaders spoke increasingly of a “preventive self-defense” strike option, to disrupt China’s plans. And recent evidence suggests that Taiwan also now has started a ballistic missile program.82South Asia.As the foregoing analysis strongly argues, the urgency of reviving great power cooperation on proliferation and the enhanced capability of missiles and regimes is not confined to the Middle East or Northeast Asia where nonproliferation appears to have succeeded to some degree vis-à-vis North Korea. Indeed, there is a distinct spillover of proliferation trends or events from Northeast Asia to South Asia and vice versa. The North Korean-Pakistani reciprocal supply relationship of missile and nuclear technologies is an outstanding example of such spillover. At least in part due to this relationship, pressures for not only proliferation but also missile defense programs are growing in both Japan and India. In turn, those programs could ultimately have transformative strategic implications across Asia.83 Both Russia and China have already registered their strong opposition to Japan’s missile defense program and its strengthening of its alliance with America as a result of that program.84 Were India to be added to this relationship, the consequences throughout Asia and world politics would be immense and profound.In the context of that DPRK-Pakistani relationship, we need to remember that the single biggest proliferator in the last generation has been Pakistan through the A. 194 Q. Khan operation that has been extensively described at least as regards its public record.85 Khan (whom it is difficult to believe was not working with the knowledge and consent of Pakistani military and political authorities) sold centrifuge and other technologies to North Korea and Iran as well as to other proliferators like Libya.86 As noted above, India and Pakistan are expanding the number, range, and type of their nuclear weapons and missiles, e.g., moving to submarine-based systems and developing the capability for strikes across a greater distance with conventional missiles, e.g., the Agni missile.87 Both states are also developing new and advanced conventional weapons that could be used in a bilateral or proxy war between them or between one of them and the other’s proxy. Indeed, recently there have been charges that Pakistan continues to sell nuclear technology and that Khan’s former middlemen are still trying to acquire those technologies.88
Thus the danger of a conventional war between India and Pakistan or proxies acting in their behalf presents the real possibility of an escalation first to missile war and then nuclear war. Indeed, as the stability-instability theory tells us, the possession by both sides of nuclear war capability paradoxically “makes the region (or the world) safe for conventional war” in the belief that the other side will be deterred due to the aggressor’s possession of a nuclear capability. Thus stability at the nuclear level creates the paradox of giving openings to governments or even to terrorist groups to trigger instability at lower levels of conflict. Those crises could then spiral out of control into bigger wars. The many crises in the region, the last one being in 2001-02, indicate just how precarious regional stability is, and Pakistan’s continuing ambivalence about supporting 195 terrorist and Islamist military forces in Kashmir and against Afghanistan provide ample opportunities for such a war to break out.

AT: Perm
China will pocket the plan—Dalai Lama, currency, and human rights prove.
Klug 2010 (Foster Klug, staff writer - Associated Press, "Obama still seeking Chinese help on many fronts," January 16, Lexis)

The stern words of his presidential campaign, however, faded almost as soon as Obama settled in at the White House one year ago. During his first year, Obama's administration postponed a meeting with the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan monk reviled by Beijing, declined to label China a currency manipulator and was cautious in its criticism of China's human rights record.
Obama's China policy has been designed to gain concessions from a country crucial to solving global crises. Yet the United States has seen little benefit on many of its pressing problems, including nuclear standoffs with Iran and North Korea and tackling climate change and economic worries.



China Says Yes


US drawdowns in East Asia would be a quid pro quo for missile reductions
Donald Gross, senior advisor to Albright Stonebridge Group, a leading international strategy consulting firm in Washington, Global Asia Spring ‘7, “Transforming the U.S. Relationship with China” http://www.donaldgross.net/articles/2007/transforming-the-us-relationship-with-china
Under a Framework Agreement, theU.S. would consolidate, pull back and reduce its forcesin Asiaso that China no longer perceives an immediate military threat. This decision would drastically curtail close U.S. surveillance and patrolling of the Chinese coast by the Navy and Air Force. It would scale down U.S. forces, which currently maintain a robust deterrence posture in the Pacific, to a level consistent with normal peacetime needs – such as protecting sea lines of communications. With China no longer regarded as a potential major security threat, deterrence would no longer be the operative principle guiding U.S. strategy or regional deployments. As part of a military quid pro quo, China would agree to radically reduce and redeploy the missile, naval and air forces that now threaten Taiwan (and, by extension, the U.S. military forces that would come to Taiwan’s aid in the event of war). China would no longer need this force level because the Taiwan issue would be resolved to a great extent within the Framework Agreement. In return for curtailing close U.S. patrols of its coast, China would also agree to pull back, permanently and verifiably, all its forces that are engaged in surveillance and patrolling Japanese territory.

MTCR is the most likely bargaining chip for US foreign policy concessions
Saunders et al 2k (Phil Saunders, Director of the East Asia Program at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, with Jing-dong Yuan and Gaurav Kampani, Senior Research Associates at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, "How and Why China Proliferates Ballistic Missiles to Pakistan," August 22, Rediff, http://www.rediff.com/news/2000/aug/22spec.htm]
But China's policies are not monocausal. China also uses missile sales and the ambiguity of its commitment to MTCR standards as a bargaining chip to achieve other foreign policy goals with the United States. For example, during negotiations with American diplomats, China linked the M-11 transfers to Pakistan with the US sale of 150 F-16s to Taiwan. Similarly, continuing technological assistance to Pakistan may be linked to US threats to transfer theater missile defense systems and other sophisticated conventional arms to Taiwan. China probably hopes to use the threat of ballistic missile proliferation and the carrot of full MTCR compliance to persuade the United States to forego any potential transfer of theater missile defense systems currently under development to Taiwan.

BMD is a unique bargaining chip Godwin and Medeiros 2k (Paul Godwin, Prof. IR @ the Nat’l War College, and Evan Medeiros, senior research assoc. in the East Asia Program @ the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, “Current History, China, America, and Missile Defense: Conflicting National Interests,” September, cns.miis.edu/archive/country_china/pdfs/godwinma.pdf)
Although challenging, theater defenses to be deployed in East Asia are more amenable to negotiation and deal-making than are bilateral NMD programs. The issue of Taiwan presents major difficulties, however. Before making any final decision, the United States must decide whether lower or upper-tier TMD enhances or degrades Taiwan’s security. Because China can simply overwhelm TMD with a barrage attack or countermeasures, the security benefits from TMD may be ephemeral, at best, and provocative, at worst. The value of TMD for the United States and Taiwan lies in its potential use as a bargaining chip. Theater missile defense transfers to Taiwan could be limited to the land-based PAC-2 or the least-advanced model of the PAC-3 in exchange for China’s restraint in deploying shortrange ballistic missiles in coastal provinces. Linking TMD sales to Taiwan with curbs on Chinese missile technology exports to both Pakistan and Iran is also in the United States security interest.

China specifically wants concessions on Japanese BMD – they’re afraid of Taiwanese protection
Brad Roberts, member of the research staff at the Institute for Defense Analyses with expertise on the proliferation and control of weapons of mass destruction. · Adjunct professor at George Washington University · Member of DoD’s Threat Reduction Advisory Committee and chairs its panel on implementation of the National Strategy to Combat WMD · Advisor to the STRATCOM Senior Advisory Group · Member of the board of directors of the United States Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific, September 2003, “China and Ballistic Missile Defense: 1955 to 2002 and Beyond”, http://www.fas.org/nuke/guide/china/doctrine/bmd.pdf
There is another possibility for China’s arms control strategy: that it will become directly concerned with establishing “red lines” in the U.S. BMD deployment strategies. Chinese experts and policymakers have sometimes suggested that if BMD is inevitable, then the United States should go about it in a way that minimizes its destabilizing implications. For example, the deployment by Japan of sea-based systems is seen in China as more destabilizing than the deployment of ground-based systems, as this suggests the possibility that those systems would be deployed to protect Taiwan in time of crisis or war. As another example, the deployment by the United States of space-based boost-phase interceptors is seen in China as more destabilizing than the deployment of ground-based interceptors in the continental United States, as the latter can more easily be overwhelmed by Chinese responses. More generally, Chinese experts are keenly aware of the assurances provided Moscow on the limited nature of the defenses that the U.S. will seek to deploy over the period of the Treaty of Moscow (i.e., to 2012) and wonder what assurances Washington is prepared to offer Beijing on a similar score.

Impact Wall

Turns the case - Chinese weapons cooperation with Pakistan and North Korea makes global prolif inevitable
Malik 2006 (Mohan Malik, PhD, Prof. Geopolitics and Proliferation @ Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, “The Proliferation Axis: Beijing-Islamabad-Pyongyang,” KIDA, http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/03_malik.pdf)

Though preoccupied with the Iraqi and al-Qaeda threats in the short term, Washington will eventually have no other option but to act tough to neutralize the challenge posed by the Beijing-IslamabadPyongyang axis. The growing threat of nuclear terrorism post-September 11 has already resulted in the imposition of sanctions against Chinese entities three times in less than a year (Sept. 1, 2001, Jan. 24, and May 9, 2002). Beijing’s unconditional support for the “War on Terror” notwithstanding, the US ambassador to China, Clark Randt, describes China-assisted proliferation of WMD technologies as “a make-or-break issue.” By openly defying attempts to limit WMD proliferation, Kim Jong-il has undermined the credibility of the US extended nuclear deterrence guarantees throughout the region. And credibility is an integral part of deterrence. The worst-case scenario is a “nuclear domino effect” where an overtly nuclear-armed North Korea forces Japan, South Korea, and even Taiwan to go nuclear, setting off a proliferation race in Asia with serious consequences for China’s great power ambitions and regional stability on which China’s economic growth depends. This would profoundly reshape the security environment in Northeast Asia and prompt the United States to accelerate deployment of ballistic-missile defenses. In response, China would likely want to boost its arsenal, which would prompt India to expand its nuclear arsenal, which in turn would spur Pakistan to do the same—and so on and on into an ever more perilous future. Clearly, Pyongyang’s nuclear brinkmanship has the potential to derail Chinese objectives of economic development and a peaceful security environment.

And, even a limited nuclear exchange would cause megafires that destroy the ozone layer.
Reuters 2008 (Maggie Fox, Reuters – Economy and Politics, "India-Pakistan nuclear war would create ozone hole," April 8, Live Mint & the Wall Street Journal, http://www.livemint.com/2008/04/08231716/IndiaPakistan-nuclear-war-wou.html)

Eight nations are known to have nuclear weapons, and Pakistan and India are believed to have at least 50 weapons apiece, each with the power of the weapon the US used to destroy Hiroshima in 1945.
Mills said the study added a new factor to the worries about what might damage the world’s ozone layer, as well as to research about the effects of even a limited nuclear exchange.
“The smoke is the key and it is coming from these firestorms that build up actually several hours after the explosions,” he said. “We are talking about modern megacities that have a lot of material in them that would burn. We saw these kinds of megafires in World War II in Dresden and Tokyo. The difference is we are talking about a large number of cities that would be bombed within a few days.”
Nothing natural could create this much black smoke in the same way, Mills noted. Volcanic ash, dust and smoke is of a different nature, for example, and forest fires are not big or hot enough.
The University of Colorado’s Brian Toon, who also worked on the study, said the damage to the ozone layer would be worse than what has been predicted by “nuclear winter” and “ultraviolet spring” scenarios.
“The big surprise is that this study demonstrates that a small-scale, regional nuclear conflict is capable of triggering ozone losses even larger than losses that were predicted following a full-scale nuclear war,” Toon said in a statement.

Ozone layer’s key to prevent extinction
Greenpeace 1995 (“Full of Homes: The Montreal Protocol and the Continuing Destruction of the Ozone Layer, http://archive.greenpeace.org/ozone/holes/holebg.html)

When chemists Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina first postulated a link between chlorofluorocarbons and ozone layer depletion in 1974, the news was greeted with scepticism, but taken seriously nonetheless. The vast majority of credible scientists have since confirmed this hypothesis.
The ozone layer around the Earth shields us all from harmful ultraviolet radiation from the sun. Without the ozone layer, life on earth would not exist. Exposure to increased levels of ultraviolet radiation can cause cataracts, skin cancer, and immune system suppression in humans as well as innumerable effects on other living systems. This is why Rowland's and Molina's theory was taken so seriously, so quickly - the stakes are literally the continuation of life on earth.

"New Franken" CP- COIN
1NC

Text: The United States federal government should
· Restrict targets of commando raids and drone strikes to networks directly operating with Al-Qaeda and the Afghan Taliban.
· Condition future aid to Afghanistan on internal reforms and the enforcement of anti-corruption strategies
· Convert the mission of all counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan to follow a Tribal Engagement Strategy.
· Reform officer ratings to include three levels of performance, increase compensation benefits and housing incentives, increase the amount of military recruiters, modify high-year tenure rules, and expand the Army’s Partnership for Youth program
• Clarify that it has no intent to withdraw

Reforming COIN solves
Michael J Boyle, Lecturer, International Relations, research fellow, Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, University of St. Andrews, 2010., International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?,” Vol. 86, No. 2, March, IntraConnect

Accordingly, it is now essential for the US to think about ways to manage these tradeoffs effectively, so that the CT and COIN missions reinforce each other’s effects. Three important steps can be identified. First, the US needs to restrict the number of potential targets of commando raids and drone strikes, and to tighten the rules of engagement to prevent civilian casualties and reduce the risk of public backlash. Force should be used sparingly, especially in Pakistan, and directed only at networks directly operating with Al-Qaeda and the Afghan Taleban. These strikes should not be extended to other Islamist networks whose support for or links with Al-Qaeda and the Taleban might be incidental. The US must be mindful that the long-term political costs of employing these strikes against militant networks in Pakistan may outweigh the tactical benefits of doing so.91 Second, as President Obama has recognized, the US needs to preserve its leverage over the governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan by explicitly making aid, and the contribution of troops, dependent on reform, the end of corruption and improvements in self-policing capacity. Third, the US needs to limit its focus in Afghanistan to the problem of violence—that is, destroying Al-Qaeda and reversing the momentum of the Taleban—and to put some distance between itself and the Karzai government. Rather than trying to enhance the legitimacy of the Karzai government, it should focus its energies on supporting good governance at the local and tribal level and on ensuring that the local delivery of security, justice and public services suffers less from corruption.92 Such a bottom-up approach would see the Afghan state remaining a patchwork of territories run by local warlords and strongmen with indirect links to the central government in Kabul. This end-state is hardly inspiring, but it is far more realistic than assuming that it is possible to defeat an ever-expanding circle of enemies while remaking Afghani- stan into a centralized modern state.

New rating systems solve retention
Weafer ‘1 (Thomas W., Colonel, US Army) Averting the Trainwreck of Captain Attrition- A Leadership Solution, US Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA391215&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

This problem could be easily rectified by lowering the maximum percentage of ratings a senior rater can put in the top block to the 25-35% range. If 70% of all officers were in the second block, then that block could truly be the 'center-of-mass,’ and officers who received such a rating would not view it as a “loser’ rating, but simply as an average one. This would keep hope alive for officers who receive two-block ratings and lessen the unhealthy competition that currently exist for one blocks. This change to the QER is a relatively simple fix that should be made immediately. The field clearly has little faith in the current OER, and the evaluation system is damaging the culture by not only reinforcing the zero defects mentality but also by fraying the bond of trust between the officer corps and the institution.
It is not surprising that General Shinseki's message also highlights the fact that “officers continue to say they are not being counseled.’ Commanders who are self-serving and focused on short-term results have little time to coach and mentor their subordinates, for mentoring is ‘a leadership obligation rarely rewarded when done well.’57 Even though our Xer captains crave feedback and despite the fact that we have added all kinds of mandatory counseling to the OER system, counseling is still not happening. It is unlikely that exhortations from the Chief of Staff “to slow things down and reenergize the formal and informal counseling of our officers” will have much impact on improving the mentoring of our young leaders.58 we need to change the culture to make mentoring a leadership obligation that is rewarded when done well.






﻿2NC


And, tribal engagement solves public support
Hannah Gurman, assistant professor at New York University’s Gallatin School, 2010, Small Wars Journal, “Tribal Engagement and the Heavy History of Counterinsurgency Light,” June 6, http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2010/06/tribal-engagement-and-the-heav/

Counterinsurgency light promises a possible alternative to a politically unpopular “cut and run” policy This strategy. doesn’t just entail scaling down the number of U.S. troops in Afghanistan, but also building up relationships between American advisors and the Afghan people based on mutual trust and responsibility. This ideal is actually central to the Army’s current counterinsurgency doctrine, which emphasizes the importance of partnering with the Afghans so that they can be the agents of their country’s security and well-being. Yet, the U.S. experience thus far in Afghanistan reflects the problem of building up the Afghans’ capacity to protect themselves with little understanding of Afghan politics and culture and through a national structure that most Afghans perceive as foreign. “The more an alien force tries to change the way tribes live, the more the tribes resist,” argues Gant in “One Tribe at a Time.” Tribal engagement thus aims to help Afghans help themselves in a way that is consistent with their culture and with an emphasis on mutual trust and respect for the existing power structure. Gant refers to this goal as having “influence without authority.”12

2. Corruption. Conditioning aid on Karzai reform solves corruption – he knows the only way he can stay in power is with US support – meaning ONLY US conditions can incentivise reform, that’s Boyle.

Here’s more evidence – failure to condition aid caused current corruption
Jonathan Goodhand, Senior Lecturer in the Department of Development Studies, School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, and Mark Sedra, Research Scholar in the Department of Political Science at the University of Waterloo, January 2007 (“Bribes or Bargains? Peace Conditionalities and ‘Post-Conflict’ Reconstruction in Afghanistan” International Peacekeeping, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 41-61)

Third, donors' policy of 'backing winners' through unconditional support has tended to reduce the incentives for meaningful reform. International donors rarely venture beyond the 'charmed circle' of Karzai and a coterie of technocrat ministers, which greatly circumscribes their use of political dialogue and pressure. The belief among most donors that there is no alternative to Karzai has imbued him with a high level of leverage and manoeuvrability. It has served to tie the political future of Karzai with that of the wider reconstruction process, fostering an engrained reluctance to apply conditions of any kind. Perhaps the most conspicuous example of the failure of donors to enforce conditionally was the legislative elections. The international community supported the establishment of a rigorous vetting process to ensure the observance of the electoral law which 'prohibits anyone who commands or belongs to an unofficial military force or armed group from becoming a candidate'.45 However, in spite of government estimates that more than 1,100 candidates potentially possessed links to armed groups, only 34 were removed from the ballot/ In the aftermath of the election it was estimated that more than 80 per cent of the winning candidates in the provinces and 60 per cent in Kabul maintained ties to armed groups.4" This laissez-faire approach to the vetting process was driven by concerns that armed power brokers barred from the elections would oppose the central government. This episode revealed the ambiguity surrounding the stated goal of statebuilding. A tension exists between the objective of creating a centralized democratic state, which has involved robust support for modernizers in the government, and the practice of supporting regional powerbrokers and appeasing the Islamic establishment to ensure short-term stability.

The CP’s refocusing recruiting efforts and preparatory programs solves
Devlin ‘3 (Lt. Col. Theodore E., USMC) Recruiting and Retention, A Force Planning Dilemma, US Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA415016&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

The difficulty in effectively recruiting from all ethnic groups is a force planning concern, especially as it relates to the social diversity of the armed forces. Establishing special preparatory programs would enable more of today's inner-city youths to enlist. These programs would be along the same line as performing arts schools or trade schools, only in this case they would focus on military science. The purpose of the prep schools would be to assist in qualifying urban youths for future military service. Since a large proportion of the military's future recruiting pool is resident in these areas, it only makes sense to cultivate these prospects.
Everyone is told that the American economy is great. It's not all great; the average is great. "The joke is that if my neighbor is out of work, it's a recession. But if I'm out of work, it's a depression." There are large pockets of unemployment, and the military should reach out and touch them. One program being tested by the Army Recruiting Command is cooperating with state unemployment agencies. Before applying for unemployment benefits, applicants are screened for possible military service and referred to recruiters. There is a large market of unemployed, migrant workers, and frequent movers who are potential quality applicants. Including these and other groups in the recruiting market would expand the base for recruiters, but others caution that it could also lead to greater retention problems downstream.114
Other suggestions include continuing to expand the Army's Partnership for Youth Success program, as well as new programs such as allowing delayed entry participants access to exchange, commissary, and recreation facilities.115 Paying a nominal stipend to delayed entry applicants might also reduce enlistment pool attrition rates. Even more creative solutions have suggested lateral entry by talented civilians at levels high enough to be attractive to successful executives or professionals.116 A contribution based retirement system - like a 401(k) - could be a powerful recruiting tool if structured to meet the desires of current youth, especially if it includes things like personal choice, competitive returns on investment, transferability, and vesting short of 20 years.117 This program could expand on the current Thrift Savings Plan.

Focus on youth recruiting and quality of life issues solves
Devlin ‘3 (Lt. Col. Theodore E., USMC) Recruiting and Retention, A Force Planning Dilemma, US Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA415016&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf

This paper offers few recommendations for retention efforts. Other than a disciplined staying of the current course, only marginal improvements are recommended. An expanded apprentice-like program similar to the Navy's would create more technically proficient service members, which in turn will be an incentive to extend enlistment. Also, very important to retention efforts, is prior service recruiting. This program taps recently separated service members who are already trained and provide a rapid infusion of critical skills where needed. In addition to these programs, further educational opportunities are proven retention tools and they should be continued.

In order to continue achieving high retention levels, the armed forces will have to place increasing emphasis on quality of life issues; compensation benefits comparable to the civilian sector; quality and affordable health care; upgrading bachelor and family housing; expanded educational benefits, perhaps even to family members; and finally, fostering greater job satisfaction. These retention incentives are easy to state, but much more difficult to achieve in an austere and highly competitive budget environment.
Disads
SKFTA Politics- MBA
1NC
SKFTA will pass soon – revitalizes global free trade
James Bacchus, Chairman, Global Trade and Investment Practice Group, Greenberg Traurig, 12/30/2010**.** “Reviving US Power Abroad from Within,” http://www.cfr.org/publication/23701/reviving_us_power_abroad_from_within.html


President Barack Obama seemed to discover international trade in 2010. This raises hopes in the United States and elsewhere that real progress may actually be made in lowering worldwide barriers to trade in 2011. As one more means of jumpstarting the sputtering American economy and creating more American jobs, the president announced this past year a goal of doubling exports in five years. New export incentives and aggressive export promotion will continue in 2011. But the president may be beginning to realize -- if he did not before -- that trade is not only about exports; it is about how exports and imports can combine in an international division of labor to create more overall prosperity for the entire world. Creating such prosperity requires much more than merely export incentives and export promotion; it requires increased market access everywhere. This is why, in the past, Democratic and Republican presidents alike have made securing more market access by lowering tariff and non-tariff barriers to international trade the bipartisan cornerstone of U.S. trade policy. And this is why Obama will be driven to do the same in 2011. By far the best way of creating more market access worldwide for American goods and services -- and more American jobs through more trade -- is by lowering trade barriers worldwide among all WTO members. He got a head start toward yearend when the United States and South Korea resolved their longstanding differences over auto trade. This could lead to congressional approval early in the new year of the long-delayed free trade agreement between the two countries. Approval of the trade agreement with South Korea could also pave the way toward approval of long-pending free trade agreements with Colombia and Panama. This in turn could open the political door, at long last, to renewed American leadership in breaking the deadlock in the decade-long Doha Development Round of global trade negotiations among the more than 150 member countries of the World Trade Organization. By far the best way of creating more market access worldwide for U.S. goods and services -- and more American jobs through more trade -- is by lowering trade barriers worldwide among all WTO members. Although it is not at all clear where "Tea Party" Republicans stand on trade, Republican control of the U.S. House of Representatives in the new Congress should ease the way for all of this politically and could give the president yet another opportunity for achieving bipartisan success in the new year.



And, Capital key to ensure GOP votes for pasasage
Keith Koffler, 12/3/10
White House Dossier, http://www.whitehousedossier.com/2010/12/03/obama-finally-trade-policy/

With suspicion of trade growing in the country, a tough battle is ahead in Congress. We’ll see if President Obama is willing to put his political capital on the line to get it done, because the game is going to be grabbing just enough Democratic votes to add to overwhelming GOP support in order to pass the measure.


[Link]

Agreement key to south Korean economy
LEE, 6 chair of the Korea International Trade Association Lee Hee-beom, Korea Herald, 11-23-06, lexis


Extensive research has been conducted on the expected benefits of the KORUS FTA. Although exact analyses of the possible effects of the FTA on detailed items will be possible, we can't overemphasize the reason the KORUS FTA should be concluded and the significance the FTA has for the overall Korean economy. Above all, Korea's FTA with the United States, one of its top three trading partners, can be regarded as the heart of FTA promotion policies which Korea has been actively pursuing. For Korea, the United States has been traditionally its most important partner in terms of trade and investment. Recently, the shares of the two countries have been dwindling in bilateral trade and investment. In this sense, the KORUS FTA is expected to provide an opportunity for the two nations to put their bilateral trade and investment back on a recovery track by reversing the current situation. We must not give up an opportunity to secure stable access to the U.S. market, the world's biggest and most advanced market, which is vital to achieving a sustainable growth of trade considered as the backbone of the Korean economy. Korea is now working toward achieving the goal of $1 trillion in trade and a per capita income of $20,000. Up until now, Korea depended mainly on quantitative inputs for its economic growth. From now on, however, it is necessary for Korea to shift the quantitative growth to a qualitative growth. To that end, it is required to strengthen the efficiency in each sector of the Korean economy. Thus, FTAs with advanced countries like the United States are expected to upgrade the Korean economy to a higher level in quality by improving domestic systems and attracting more investment into Korea. What's more, if the KORUS FTA is concluded, Korea will be placed in a more advantageous position in the negotiation tables with Japan, the European Union, and China with which Korea has been currently discussing FTAs. Furthermore, there will be noneconomic benefits. Through the KORUS FTA, Korea and the United States will be able to elevate their security alliance to a more comprehensive relationship to include bilateral economies. In the meantime, the KORUS FTA will serve as an effective instrument to bring stability to the East Asian region and the Korean Peninsula which are now in unstable situations due to the North Korean nuclear issue and other issues.


South Korean economy is key to Asian democracy
Newsweek, 10 (1/29/10, “Selling South Korea,” http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html)

In short, the South Korean model is a more mature cousin of China's—a hybrid economy, part free market, part state-controlled—but with more freedom for the market and for political dissent. Now Lee is positioning South Korea within Asia as a dynamic alternative to both China's mighty command economy and Japan's no-growth economy. In Southeast Asia, South Korea has long been admired for completing an economic miracle in just one generation, moving its 48 million people out of poverty and entering the ranks of fully industrialized nations, with average per capita income that surpassed $20,000 in 2007. And, unlike China, South Korea has achieved economic and political growth at the same time, with an increasingly well-established multiparty democracy that respects free speech and election results. South Korea, says U.S. Ambassador Kathleen Stephens, is "the best example in the post–World War II era of a country that has overcome enormous obstacles to achieve this kind of success." Many Southeast Asian nations, alarmed by the harsh sides of the China model, look to South Korea as an alternative. Vietnam is sending civil servants there, studying how in the 1970s and '80s Seoul used massive government support, such as cheap loans, to develop strategic industries such as steel and petrochemicals as the backbone of its export economy. As part of Vietnam's effort to develop capital markets, it also now runs a stock exchange in Hanoi, built with the help of the Korea Stock Exchange. Officials from Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, and Uzbekistan regularly visit South Korea to join training programs that teach economic and business management. "Developing countries are eager to learn South Korea's economic model because of its relevance to them," says Euh Yoon-dae, a Korea University economist currently heading a presidential committee to promote the national brand. "Our open economic system is more appealing to them than, say, that of China."

Extinction
Diamond, 95 – Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm)


This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic ones. Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons continue to proliferate. The very source of life on Earth, the global ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered. Most of these new and unconventional threats to security are associated with or aggravated by the weakness or absence of democracy, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness.

Impacts
Laundry List
SKFTA solves human rights, prolif, terrorism, diseases, the economy, and war.
Politico 1/5 (David Dreier, 1/5/11, " Bipartisanship can revive economy ", http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0111/47044.html)
There are no higher priorities for our country right now than job creation and economic growth. As the new Congress begins, every decision we make must be tied directly to those goals. If we are going to get our economy back on track, we need to take several key steps. These include making the current tax rates permanent, repealing the job-killing health care law and dramatically reducing federal spending. Some of these efforts will divide Congress politically. But they are all a part of what House Republicans pledged we would do — and of what the American people expect us to do. At the same time, there are areas in which both parties can work together. A strong trade agenda presents a unique opportunity to promote economic growth, global partnerships and bipartisan cooperation. Unfortunately, the trade agenda has been allowed to languish for the past four years and, in some cases, has been thwarted. In the meantime, our economy and our global prestige have suffered. There’s never been a more important time to re-engage on trade. Trade is often blamed for every manner of society’s ills. Globally connected commerce has been accused of having a hand in everything from terrorism to pandemics. In December, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez blamed it for the tragic mudslides that claimed dozens of lives in his nation and in Colombia. Setting aside the disservice that such a claim does for addressing the true root causes of the great challenges we face, the reality of the role of trade is precisely the opposite of what this viewpoint presents. International trade plays an important part in improving a nation’s circumstances — far beyond the immediate scope of exports and imports. Given the current climate, the direct economic impact is the most urgent. Opening up new markets for U.S. producers, farmers, service providers and investors is essential for spurring growth and creating new job opportunities for both union and nonunion workers here at home. The three markets with which we have pending free-trade agreements — Colombia, Panama and South Korea — represent 96 million consumers and $1.8 trillion in economic activity. The opportunity for U.S. job creators is enormous, so the delay in the agreements’ consideration is unjustifiable. The benefits of trade, however, extend considerably beyond job creation and economic growth. Economic engagement across borders builds the strong global partnerships that are necessary to address the challenges of the 21st century. Whether the issue is tariffs or nuclear proliferation, the trust and spirit of collaboration forged through economic ties help the United States advance its interests and spread its values around the globe. Enhancing prosperity through international trade also creates the resources necessary for essential efforts like improving environmental quality, protecting human rights and building democratic institutions. Raising living standards, in fact, helps alleviate many of society’s ills, including terrorism, pandemics and, yes, even the ability to respond to natural disasters in South America. Reviving the trade agenda also helps with another challenge: partisan politics. Trade once enjoyed a strong bipartisan consensus. The last time there was a new Republican majority, we were enthusiastic about working with then-President Bill Clinton on the trade agenda. That collaboration produced some of the biggest bipartisan achievements of the 1990s. We are eager, again, to join with a Democratic president in revitalizing America’s global leadership role in trade liberalization. President Barack Obama has demonstrated a commitment to expanding trade by finalizing negotiations on a side agreement with South Korea, as well as through his National Export Initiative. Republicans stand ready as committed partners in these efforts to create new opportunities for Americans through greater international trade. By working together to pass our three pending free-trade agreements and re-engaging in the bilateral, regional and multilateral negotiations that have languished, we can revive our stagnant job market and sluggish economy. We can re-energize our relationships with key international partners. What’s more, we can demonstrate that Republicans and Democrats can come together for the sake of our economy and our country. Though many of the issues the 112th Congress faces will inevitably lead to a clash of ideas, both parties can and should work together with a renewed commitment to economic growth and global leadership through trade.

Warming
SKFTA key to solve warming
Anthony B. Kim 10 is a Policy Analyst in the Center for International Trade and Economics at The Heritage Foundation. "Time to Build a Clean Energy Future through the KORUS FTA" June 28 heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/06/Time-to-Build-a-Clean-Energy-Future-through-the-KORUS-FTA
“Clean energy” has become a political and economic buzzword for the broad policy debate on how to deal with energy challenges and achieve green growth in the future. Indeed, the global clean energy industry presents a critical market opportunity for the United States, one that could lead to dynamic exports and job creation. In order to capitalize on such economic opportunities, America’s clean energy strategy must be driven by practical policy actions that, at their core, all promote free trade. The pending Korea–U.S. Free Trade Agreement, known as the KORUS FTA, is a ready-made vehicle for pioneering a clean energy future and ensuring greater prosperity in the two nations. If President Obama is genuinely serious about clean energy and successfully expanding markets for American entrepreneurs, he should submit the KORUS FTA for congressional ratification without further delay, according to the November 2010 timetable he indicated during the recent G-20 summit in Toronto. Freer Trade Is Key to Clean Energy and Protecting the Environment When a country lowers its barriers to trade, it opens its economy to competitive opportunities for greater efficiency and dynamic economic growth. Competition spurs the movement of labor and capital from industries that cannot compete to those that can, enabling a nation to both produce more efficiently and attract new investment. The need to adhere to such a strategy is no less important today than in previous eras. Free trade expands the base for vibrant innovation and growth. In countries around the world, trade has been shown to be one of the greatest drivers of technological change. Clean energy technology is no exception. Indeed, the most practical improvements in clean energy technology efficiency and environmental protection over the past decades have not stemmed from government mandates, but by freer trade and economic freedom.
The KORUS FTA: Compelling Case for Advancing Green Growth
In 2007, the U.S. and South Korea concluded a free trade pact that in part reflects and in part encourages a virtuous economic relationship between the two nations. The agreement has been characterized as “strong and balanced” and as “an agreement for the 21st century.”Key features of the agreed trade deal include reducing tariff rates on 95 percent of all consumer and industrial products, improving transparency and intellectual property rights protection, and addressing standards and regulations. Indeed, if timely ratified, America firmly stands to gain from the KORUS FTA, particularly given its competitive edge in innovation, commercialization, and deployment of advanced technologies.
South Korea has been heralded as a leader in crafting green growth strategies in recent years. Since 2008, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak’s long-term vision of “Low Carbon, Green Growth” has driven policy to dramatically expand clean energy usage. Significant components of the plan aim to attract international partners and foreign technologies. This presents a tremendous market opportunity for American entrepreneurs. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, most if not all of the targeted economic sectors under the “green growth vision” are in sectors of U.S. competitive strength. Key U.S. exports to those sectors include industrial electronic machinery, auto parts, power generation equipment, and scientific equipment. These exports are all directly or indirectly related to clean energy technology.
Time for Action As America has a comparative advantage over South Korea in commercializing and deploying clean energy technology such as solar, wind, nuclear, and smart grids, the trade pact would capitalize on an existing strength. The U.S. need not fear clean energy competition from South Korea. Business and workers in both countries would benefit.

Economy
Economy on the brink of collapse – prefer most recent evidence
**Slavo 1/6** (Mac, small business owner and independent investor focusing on global strategies to protect, preserve and increase wealth during times of economic distress and uncertainty, “On the Brink of Catastrophic Economic Collapse”, January 06, 2011, http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article25418.html)

We’ve been told a lot of things since the global economic crisis first became apparent in 2007. In March of that year Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said, “the impact on the broader economy and financial markets of the problems in the sub-prime markets seems likely to be contained.” Clearly, Mr. Bernanke’s assessment was incorrect and the sub-prime real estate issues were only part of a broader, systemic issue. The fundamental problems within our economy became mainstream news in the latter part of 2008 when stock markets around the world were in free fall and most major financial institutions were on the cusp of insolvency. In response, our government, with the full support and confidence of Congress, took unprecedented steps to save the system by injecting, first billions, and then trillions of dollars to bailout failed companies, stabilize deflationary price collapses and stimulate the economy. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson eventually wrote a book about the crisis, aptly titled On the Brink. But how close to the brink were we? If Representative Brad Sherman is to be believed, we were close. So close, in fact, that according to Sherman, Congressional members were told that if the bailout was not authorized by Congress the collapse would be so severe that martial law may have to be declared - basically, tanks in the streets. The following short video is Brad Sherman discussing the situation on the House floor: Are we now to believe that the actions taken by Congress, The President, US Treasury and The Federal Reserve have resolved the fundamental problems facing our nation? For those 17% of people who think the economy is in recovery and the other 33% who believe it will happen soon, we point you to the latest statement from current Treasury Secretary Timothy Geitherner, who outlines the severity of the problem in a January 6, 2011 letter to Congress writes: I am writing in response to your request for an estimate by the Treasury Department of when the statutory debt limit will be reached, and for a description of the consequences of default by the United States. Never in our history has Congress failed to increase the debt limit when necessary. Failure to raise the limit would precipitate a default by the United States. Default would effectively impose a significant and long-lasting tax on all Americans and all American businesses and could lead to the loss of millions of American jobs. Even a very short-term or limited default would have catastrophic economic consequences that would last for decades. Failure to increase the limit would be deeply irresponsible. For these reasons, I am requesting that Congress act to increase the limit early this year, well before the threat of default becomes imminent. … Treasury would prefer not to have to engage again in any of these extraordinary measures [suspension of the issuance of certain types of government debt and government investment vehicles]. If we are forced to do so again, these measures could delay the date by which the limit is reached by several weeks. Once these steps have been taken, no remaining legal and prudent measures would be available to create additional headroom under the debt limit, and the United States would begin to default on its obligations. The Treasury Secretary of The United States of America just said that if we don’t get another $1 trillion or so dollars by March of this year then this country will begin to default on its debt obligations. These remarks are extremely serious and should be understood for what they are. We are, literally and without mixing words, on the brink of economic catastrophe. The scary thing is, according to Mr. Geithner and the many supporters of raising our debt ceiling, that borrowing more money is the only solution available. In a recent commentary we pointed out the opposing view from Karl Denninger of Market Ticker, who said that raising the debt ceiling would essentially lead to the very same consequence as leaving it as is: Let me be clear: If you extend the debt ceiling and by doing so allow deficits of this sort to continue for another year, say much less two, you will have placed a loaded shotgun in the mouth of this nation and pulled the trigger. It will go off, and you will splatter this nations’ economic and political system all over the wall. It’s a Catch 22 and there’s no way out. Defaulting on or inflating away our debt are the only viable solutions. Both of these will lead to the same end - a complete and total collapse of the way of life Americans have become used to. Just as Henry Paulson, President Bush, et. al. warned of economic collapse and depression in 2008, Mr. Geithner warns of the very same today. All of the trillions spent, all of the laws passed, and all of the manipulations of global asset markets, have done absolutely nothing to resolve the fundamental systemic problems we faced prior to the onset of the crisis. It is, quite literally, going to be the end of the world as we know it - and it cannot be stopped. It’s time for each individual to take steps to prepare for a national debt default and a complete debasement of the US dollar. It won’t be long before we either can’t meet our debt obligations or our creditors finally put a stop to our out of control borrowing. And when they do, the chances are high that we will experience a hyperinflationary monetary collapse, complete with disruptions to the normal flow of commerce, food shortages and out of control prices. The only refuge will be to understand what is money when the system collapses and start preparing now. The government is getting ready for it, so should you.


FTA increases free trade and adds billions to GDP, solving for the economy
Bandow 10 (Doug, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. A former Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan, he is the author of several books, “South Korea Free Trade Agreement Key to Prosperity and Security”, October 19, inclhttp://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12488)
one of which means that we can just sit back and enjoy the recession. History may suggest that financial crises actually help capitalist great powers maintain their leads--but it has other, less reassuring messages as well. If financial crises have been a normal part of life during the 300-year rise of the liberal capitalist system under the Anglophone powers, so has war. The wars of the League of Augsburg and the Spanish Succession; the Seven Years War; the American Revolution; the Napoleonic Wars; the two World Wars; the cold war: The list of wars is almost as long as the list of financial crises. Bad economic times can breed wars. Europe was a pretty peaceful place in 1928, but the Depression poisoned German public opini
Washington should be expanding American investment and trade opportunities throughout East Asia. The starting point should be ratifying the FTA with the Republic of Korea (ROK). South Korea possesses one of the world's largest economies — number 13 at last count — and is among the top dozen trading nations. Total bilateral trade between the U.S. and the ROK ran about $85 billion in 2008. The seventh largest merchandise trading partner of the U.S., the ROK is a major importer of aircraft, cereals, chemicals, machinery, and plastics. Even a small expansion of U.S.-ROK trade would offer a significant benefit for America's economy. Despite its stunning economic success due in large part to exports, the South has never welcomed international competition. Korean business professor Moon Hwy-chang admits: "Korea has not been a very open economy." The FTA helps change that. Jeffrey Schott of the Peterson Institute for International Economics reported: "The U.S.-Korea pact covers more trade than any other U.S. trade agreement except the North American Free Trade Agreement" and "opens up substantial new opportunities for bilateral trade and investment in goods and services." Roughly 95 percent of trade would become duty free within three years and most of the other tariffs would be lifted within a decade. The accord would provide particularly significant benefits for U.S. agriculture, financial services companies, and American firms seeking access to ROK government procurement. Obviously, the FTA does not eliminate all economic barriers in the South — just as it does not eliminate all import restrictions by America. Nevertheless, even in the contested areas of autos and beef the FTA makes progress, eliminating taxes on the former and reducing tariffs on the latter. Only by ratifying the current agreement is further progress likely. Both countries would benefit economically from the FTA, but the U.S., whose share of Korean imports has been falling, would probably benefit more. According to the U.S. International Trade Commission, eliminating South Korean tariffs alone should add $10 billion to $12 billion to America's GDP. Demand for American audiovisual, financial, and telecommunications services also likely would increase substantially. Overall, the ITC figures that American exports to South Korea would go up nearly twice as much as imports from the ROK. Moreover, the longer-term gain could be even greater. First, South Koreans remain less affluent than suggested by their GDP: the ROK's per capita GDP is about $17,000. Continued strong growth — especially if enhanced by the sort of economic reforms which would be likely in the faced of increased U.S. economic competition — would enhance individual buying power, leading to increased purchases of American goods and services in the future. Second, reunification with the North is likely to come some day. A united Korea will be an even more important economic market for U.S. concerns. The FTA would give American companies an advantage when that day comes.

Econ collapse causes nuc war
Walter Russell Mead, Senior Fellow-Council Foreign Relations, 2-4-09
(http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)

Non and helped bring Adolf Hitler to power. If the current crisis turns into a depression, what rough beasts might start slouching toward Moscow, Karachi, Beijing, or New Delhi to be born? The United States may not, yet, decline, but, if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

ROK Economy
Plan collapses South Korean economy – guts investment
Magnum 4- Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea
(Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf])

Many Koreans ignore the fact that while the ROK economy performed exceptionally well during the Asian economic crisis of the late 1990s, it is a fragile economy that is dependent on regional stability to encourage continued foreign investment. Investors state that a strong military presence in South Korea provides stability against foreign aggression, **which gives investors the confidence** to put money in the Korean economy. Because Korea relies so heavily on the import of natural resources to fuel its industry, the lack of foreign investment to permit the purchase of those resources would be devastating. Consequently, maintaining a strong military, whether independent of a U.S. military presence or not, is critical to maintaining the health of the South Korean economy. This fact is often overlooked in the ROK public’s emotional rush to seek equality in its relationship with the United States. Furthermore, without strong public will to support and pay for the transformation of ROK forces into a strong regional military, the ROK public may not let its government spend the money necessary to improve the capability of its forces.

South Korean economy is key to Asian democracy
Newsweek, 10 (1/29/10, “Selling South Korea,” http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html)

In short, the South Korean model is a more mature cousin of China's—a hybrid economy, part free market, part state-controlled—but with more freedom for the market and for political dissent. Now Lee is positioning South Korea within Asia as a dynamic alternative to both China's mighty command economy and Japan's no-growth economy. In Southeast Asia, South Korea has long been admired for completing an economic miracle in just one generation, moving its 48 million people out of poverty and entering the ranks of fully industrialized nations, with average per capita income that surpassed $20,000 in 2007. And, unlike China, South Korea has achieved economic and political growth at the same time, with an increasingly well-established multiparty democracy that respects free speech and election results. South Korea, says U.S. Ambassador Kathleen Stephens, is "the best example in the post–World War II era of a country that has overcome enormous obstacles to achieve this kind of success." Many Southeast Asian nations, alarmed by the harsh sides of the China model, look to South Korea as an alternative. Vietnam is sending civil servants there, studying how in the 1970s and '80s Seoul used massive government support, such as cheap loans, to develop strategic industries such as steel and petrochemicals as the backbone of its export economy. As part of Vietnam's effort to develop capital markets, it also now runs a stock exchange in Hanoi, built with the help of the Korea Stock Exchange. Officials from Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, and Uzbekistan regularly visit South Korea to join training programs that teach economic and business management. "Developing countries are eager to learn South Korea's economic model because of its relevance to them," says Euh Yoon-dae, a Korea University economist currently heading a presidential committee to promote the national brand. "Our open economic system is more appealing to them than, say, that of China."

Extinction
Diamond, 95 – Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm)

This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic ones. Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons continue to proliferate. The very source of life on Earth, the global ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered. Most of these new and unconventional threats to security are associated with or aggravated by the weakness or absence of democracy, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness.

Plan also stops U.S. foothold in the Asian Pacific Market which will collapse the U.S. economy
Kinne, 4- Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691])

Strategic withdrawal of U.S. forces from South Korea would present some unique economic challenges for the United States. As discussed earlier, removal of forces might promote a peaceful solution that affords the U.S. and other regional actor’s access to a new and emerging North Korean market. Although remotely possible, this is highly unlikely given the North’s past history and aggressive nature. More than likely, the U.S. would lose global and regional credibility, unfettered access to the Asian-Pacific market, and the ability to influence regional economic policies. Our departure might also lead to reduced levels of foreign investment (other than by U.S.) due to security concerns. Loss of this foothold in the Asian- Pacific market would be cataclysmic to the U.S. economy**.** Approximately 25 percent of our annual imports come from this region.14 In addition, the emergence of China as a potential global super power will require that the U.S. remain fully entrenched in this region in order to contain and shape China’s ascendancy into the global marketplace.

Nuclear war
Walter Mead, Senior Fellow-Council on Foreign Relations, 2/4/9 (http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)

History may suggest that financial crises actually help capitalist great powers maintain their leads--but it has other, less reassuring messages as well. If financial crises have been a normal part of life during the 300-year rise of the liberal capitalist system under the Anglophone powers, so has war. The wars of the League of Augsburg and the Spanish Succession; the Seven Years War; the American Revolution; the Napoleonic Wars; the two World Wars; the cold war: The list of wars is almost as long as the list of financial crises. **Bad economic times** can **breed wars**. Europe was a pretty peaceful place in 1928, but the Depression poisoned German public opinion and helped bring Adolf Hitler to power. **If the** **current crisis turns into a depression**, **what rough beasts might** start **slouch**ing **toward Moscow, Karachi, Beijing, or New Delhi** to be born**?** The United States may not, yet, decline, but, **if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may** still **have to fight****.**


Deterrence
South Korea
Withdrawal causes regional instability – this guarantees allied prolif, northern aggression, cooperation breakdowns, arms races, miscalc and pre-emption – no other checks on escalation
Richardson, 6 **(Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9-2006, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html)**

Rumors of a substantial drawdown or complete withdrawal of US Forces Korea (USFK) have been around for decades. After years of a South Korean administration generally hostile to US regional objectives and priorities, perhaps the rumors are finally becoming a reality. That would be a tragedy for both sides. If the US were to leave Korea, how would US influence in the region be altered? How would Korea's relationships with China and Japan change? What about the strengthening US-Japan alliance? What if North Korea collapsed? These questions have largely escaped critical consideration in the current debate. Despite President Roh Moo-hyun's stunning obliviousness to political and security realities, South Korea would be particularly vulnerable without USFK, or even with a token force left in place. For its part, the US cannot realistically expect to maintain or improve its ability to exert regional influence by leaving Korea. Like US Forces Japan (USFJ), America's Korean contingent helps prevent conflict by acting as a strong deterrent for any nation that might consider military actions or threats, at the same time moderating the responses of the host nation in tense situations. Obviously, the original purpose of the US-South Korea alliance was to counter the North Korean threat. However, as that threat has waned, a more important, diplomatically incorrect mission has evolved in addition to deterring North Korea: ensuring stability among China, Japan and Korea. The North Korean threat is nonetheless the reason for the majority of South Korea's defenses, even if Seoul won't say so in defense white papers. No conventional military calculus suggests the possibility of a North Korean victory in a second Korean War, but a weaker South Korean military could cause Pyongyang to miscalculate. South Korea's defenses must remain strong. **Regional tensions, but stability** Even with USFK in Korea, issues from the region's long and often confrontational history cause tensions to flare. Chinese claims that Koguryo, an ancient ethnically Korean kingdom whose territories extended into present-day China, was in fact a Chinese kingdom have raised Korean hackles on several occasions. The move is viewed as the possible groundwork for justifying a Chinese invasion of the northern half of the peninsula, perhaps to "help" a North Korea on the verge of implosion, or after collapse. China's plans to register Mount Baekdu (Changbai in Chinese) as a Chinese historical site with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Geopark list was also viewed as a possible prelude to claiming North Korean territory. The mountain, sacred to both sides, straddles the border. A 1962 agreement between the two countries split ownership of the mountain. This view is bolstered by the fact that China prefers to retain border buffer zones and would not relish having a reunified Korea, potentially with US forces just across the Yalu River. South Korea could not prevent China from sending troops into North Korea, and the US likely would not risk war with China over North Korea. Japan's colonial domination of Korea from 1910 to 1945 has left a deep and bitter resentment in both Koreas that is apt to provoke emotional and drastic responses. One high-profile manifestation of this is the decades-long dispute over the ownership of some relatively insignificant islets in the waters between the peninsula and the archipelago, the Liancourt Rocks. Known as Dokdo in Korea and Takeshima in Japan, South Korea has stationed a Coast Guard contingent on the island since 1954 to enforce its claim. Both nations claim the area as a part of their exclusive economic zones (EEZs). In 2005 South Korea scrambled fighters to intercept a civilian Japanese Cessna aircraft nearing Dokdo airspace. When Japan announced plans to conduct a hydrographic survey of the area, South Korea made vague threats alluding to possible military action against the research vessels. Japan backed down. Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's numerous visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, dedicated to Japan's war dead including some convicted war criminals, have raised diplomatic tensions with both South Korea and China on several occasions, including a temporary recall of South Korea's ambassador in Japan. **Ripe for an arms race** South Korea wants to be the "hub" of something in East Asia, and it may finally have its chance, thanks to the Roh administration. The current US-South Korea situation is a case of "be careful of what you ask for because you might get it". Even so, the psychological impact on South Korea of a significant USFK departure likely would not be immediate but should not be underestimated. A massive reduction of US troop levels and capabilities could have the same effect as a complete withdrawal on Seoul's planning processes. It might begin with regretful concern, but could quickly become panic. At this point it should be noted that even if the USFK withdraws from Korea, some sort of collaborative security agreement will remain in place. However, South Korea's perception of America's commitment to security on the peninsula is the decisive factor in how it will react to real and perceived threats. What are now relatively minor disagreements with Japan and China would take on a more serious dimension. Without USFK, South Korea would need to vastly increase its defense budget to make up for functions long taken for granted. With American forces on its soil as a safety net, South Korea didn't have to be overly concerned with being attacked or invaded. Many Koreans would perceive that era over. Another factor is the closer US-Japan security partnership, which causes both China and South Korea concern. Some in the South Korean defense sector are undoubtedly jealous of the relationship Japan enjoys with the US. Japan would also need to take into consideration a South Korea without the moderating influence of USFK, although the role of USFJ in Japan would reduce much concern. In such an environment it's not unthinkable that a few minor skirmishes could occur, between South Korean and Japanese navel vessels in the vicinity of Dokdo, for example. This would be the slow start of a regional arms race, with Korea and Japan joining China's ongoing buildup. **A reunified Korea could go nuclear** North Korea is the wildcard. If in the next few years reunification were to occur - through a North Korean collapse, the death of Kim Jong-il, or a possible but unlikely mutual agreement - South Korea would suddenly find itself straddled with the enormous cost of integrating North Korea. These costs would dwarf the already massive increase South Korea would have been undertaking in defense spending, something it would clearly be unprepared and unable to accomplish while maintaining its defense investment. A Korea faced with an economic dilemma of such magnitude would find maintaining its conventional military forces at current levels impossible. At the same time, it would feel more vulnerable than ever, even with US security assurances. For a nation paranoid about the possibility of outside influence or military intervention, strapped for cash, and obsessed about its position in the international hierarchy, the obvious route might be to either incorporate North Korean nuclear devices (if they actually exist), or build their own, something South Korean technicians could easily accomplish. North Korea, after all, has set the example for economically challenged nations looking for the ultimate in deterrence. One might argue that clear and firm US security guarantees for a reunified Korea would be able to dissuade any government from choosing the nuclear option. If making decisions based purely on logic the answer would be probably yes. Unfortunately, the recent Korean leadership has established a record of being motivated more by emotional and nationalistic factors than logical or realistic ones. Antics over Dokdo and the Yasukuni Shrine and alienating the US serve as examples. But the continuation of the "Sunshine Policy" tops those. Instead of admitting they've been sold a dead horse, the Roh administration continued riding the rotting and bloated beast known as the Sunshine Policy, until all that are left today are a pile of bones, a bit of dried skin, and a few tufts of dirty hair. Roh, however, is still in the saddle, if not as firmly after North Korea's recent missile tests. Japan must then consider its options in countering an openly nuclear, reunified Korea without USFK. Already building momentum to change its constitution to clarify its military, it's not inconceivable that Japan would ultimately consider going nuclear to deter Korea. As in South Korea, there is no technological barrier preventing Japan from building nuclear weapons. While the details of the race and escalation of tensions can vary in any number of ways and are not inevitable, that an arms race would occur is probable. Only the perception of threat and vulnerability need be present for this to occur. East Asia could become a nuclear powder keg ready to explode over something as childish as the Dokdo/Takeshima dispute between Korea and Japan, a Diaoyu/Senkakus dispute between China and Japan, or the Koguryo dispute between Korea and China. **The arms race need not occur** One could argue that the US would be able to step in and moderate things before such an escalation could occur. Considering the recent US record on influencing either North or South Korea, it is perhaps unwise to count on it being able to do so at some crucial point in the future. One could also argue that the US need not be involved in a future East Asian war. Like assuming there is no need for USFK since North Korea is considered less of a threat to Seoul, that is wishful thinking. The US has too many political and diplomatic ties, aside from alliance obligations, to ignore such a war. For American policymakers, the notion that a withdrawal is a deserved payback for the rampant anti-Americanism in South Korea, or that the few billion we spend on defense there is a catastrophic waste, need to be discarded. The potential cost of a war would be far greater in both American lives and in dollars, the benefits of continued peace immeasurable. Vastly reducing or withdrawing USFK can only harm US security, it cannot help it. USFK has helped maintain peace and allowed the US to project influence in the region for the past six decades; removing that presence would be foolish and difficult to replicate once done. It is also important to keep in mind that the next presidential election will likely result in a less anti-American administration. South Korean policymakers and citizens alike need to come to terms with the fact that Korea will probably never be a powerful nation, but because of its location it will always be important in the geopolitical sense. Because of this, Korea can never take the middle ground or play a "balancing" role; Korea must choose sides. Finally, the reality that both American and South Korean policymakers need to come to terms with is that USFK deterring a second North Korean invasion has become a secondary mission to maintaining regional stability, even in a reunified Korea.

Also causes northern agression
Huessy, 3 – Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states (8/13/2003, Peter, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560)

It may be wishful thinking, but I believe China has the ability to help shape the future in the region in a positive way. For the U.S. to withdraw from the ROK, as proposed by Carpenter, might very well initiate not only another Korean War but also possibly another World War. When I lived in Seoul and attended Yonsei University in 1969-70, my Korean father and Yonsei professor, Hahm Pyong Choon, later to become Ambassador to the United States and national security adviser to the President of the Republic of Korea, told me there were always those who sought to purchase liberty and freedom on the cheap. At an embassy reception in Washington, he reminded me what he had told me in class: “Those on the left think you are imperialists; those on the right do not want to spend the money”. In 1985, the communists planted bombs in Burma where the ROK cabinet was meeting. Professor Hahm was killed by the very same North Korean communists whom wish to see the withdrawal of American forces from the region. To save a few dollars, however unintentionally, we might end up the North Korean army in downtown Seoul. Certainly, armed with nuclear weapons, the North will be difficult at best to deter from such an attack. To the people of the Republic of Korea: America will not leave, we will not run, we will not forget the extraordinary sacrifices we both have made to secure the freedom of your country and ours. This is the basis for the Bush Administration’s strategy, and with that sufficient reason it should be supported.

The plan ends the American hierarchy in Asia— collapses US global leadership and triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war
Goh, 8 – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database)

The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance and deference means that the stability of a hierarchical order is fundamentally related to a collective sense of certainty about the leadership and order of the hierarchy. This certainty is rooted in a combination of material calculations – smaller states' assurance that the expected costs of the dominant state conquering them would be higher than the benefits – and ideational convictions – the sense of legitimacy, derived from shared values and norms that accompanies the super-ordinate state's authority in the social order. The empirical analysis in the next section shows that regional stability in East Asia in the post-Second World War years can be correlated to the degree of collective certainty about the US-led regional hierarchy. East Asian stability and instability has been determined by U.S. assurances, self-confidence, and commitment to maintaining its primary position in the regional hierarchy; the perceptions and confidence of regional states about US commitment; and the reactions of subordinate states in the region to the varied challengers to the regional hierarchical order. 4. Hierarchy and the East Asian security order Currently, the regional hierarchy in East Asia is still dominated by the United States. Since the 1970s, China has increasingly claimed the position of second-ranked great power, a claim that is today legitimized by the hierarchical deference shown by smaller subordinate powers such as South Korea and Southeast Asia. Japan and South Korea can, by virtue of their alliance with the United States, be seen to occupy positions in a third layer of regional major powers, while India is ranked next on the strength of its new strategic relationship with Washington. North Korea sits outside the hierarchic order but affects it due to its military prowess and nuclear weapons capability. Apart from making greater sense of recent history, conceiving of the US' role in East Asia as the dominant state in the regional hierarchy helps to clarify three critical puzzles in the contemporary international and East Asian security landscape. First, it contributes to explaining the lack of sustained challenges to American global preponderance after the end of the Cold War. Three of the key potential global challengers to US unipolarity originate in Asia (China, India, and Japan), and their support for or acquiescence to, US dominance have helped to stabilize its global leadership. Through its dominance of the Asian regional hierarchy, the United States has been able to neutralize the potential threats to its position from Japan via an alliance, from India by gradually identifying and pursuing mutual commercial and strategic interests, and from China by encircling and deterring it with allied and friendly states that support American preponderance. Secondly, recognizing US hierarchical preponderance further explains contemporary under-balancing in Asia, both against a rising China, and against incumbent American power. I have argued that one defining characteristic of a hierarchical system is voluntary subordination of lesser states to the dominant state, and that this goes beyond rationalistic bandwagoning because it is manifested in a social contract that comprises the related processes of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference. Critically, successful and sustainable hierarchical assurance and deference helps to explain why Japan is not yet a ‘normal’ country. Japan has experienced significant impetus to revise and expand the remit of its security forces in the last 15 years. Yet, these pressures continue to be insufficient to prompt a wholesale revision of its constitution and its remilitarization. The reason is that the United States extends its security umbrella over Japan through their alliance, which has led Tokyo not only to perceive no threat from US dominance, but has in fact helped to forge a security community between them (Nau, 2003). Adjustments in burden sharing in this alliance since the 1990s have arisen not from greater independent Japanese strategic activism, but rather from periods of strategic uncertainty and crises for Japan when it appeared that American hierarchical assurance, along with US' position at the top of the regional hierarchy, was in question. Thus, the Japanese priority in taking on more responsibility for regional security has been to improve its ability to facilitate the US' central position, rather than to challenge it.13 In the face of the security threats from North Korea and China, Tokyo's continued reliance on the security pact with the United States is rational. While there remains debate about Japan's re-militarization and the growing clout of nationalist ‘hawks’ in Tokyo, for regional and domestic political reasons, a sustained ‘normalization’ process cannot take place outside of the restraining framework of the United States–Japan alliance (Samuels, 2007; Pyle, 2007). Abandoning the alliance will entail Japan making a conscience choice not only to remove itself from the US-led hierarchy, but also to challenge the United States dominance directly. The United States–ROK alliance may be understood in a similar way, although South Korea faces different sets of constraints because of its strategic priorities related to North Korea. As J.J. Suh argues, in spite of diminishing North Korean capabilities, which render the US security umbrella less critical, the alliance endures because of mutual identification – in South Korea, the image of the US as ‘the only conceivable protector against aggression from the North,’ and in the United States, an image of itself as protector of an allied nation now vulnerable to an ‘evil’ state suspected of transferring weapons of mass destruction to terrorist networks (Suh, 2004). Kang, in contrast, emphasizes how South Korea has become less enthusiastic about its ties with the United States – as indicated by domestic protests and the rejection of TMD – and points out that Seoul is not arming against a potential land invasion from China but rather maritime threats (Kang, 2003, pp.79–80). These observations are valid, but they can be explained by hierarchical deference toward the United States, rather than China. The ROK's military orientation reflects its identification with and dependence on the United States and its adoption of US' strategic aims. In spite of its primary concern with the North Korean threat, Seoul's formal strategic orientation is toward maritime threats, in line with Washington's regional strategy. Furthermore, recent South Korean Defense White Papers habitually cited a remilitarized Japan as a key threat. The best means of coping with such a threat would be continued reliance on the US security umbrella and on Washington's ability to restrain Japanese remilitarization (Eberstadt et al., 2007). Thus, while the United States–ROK bilateral relationship is not always easy, its durability is based on South Korea's fundamental acceptance of the United States as the region's primary state and reliance on it to defend and keep regional order. It also does not rule out Seoul and other US allies conducting business and engaging diplomatically with China. India has increasingly adopted a similar strategy vis-à-vis China in recent years. Given its history of territorial and political disputes with China and its contemporary economic resurgence, India is seen as the key potential power balancer to a growing China. Yet, India has sought to negotiate settlements about border disputes with China, and has moved significantly toward developing closer strategic relations with the United States. Apart from invigorated defense cooperation in the form of military exchange programs and joint exercises, the key breakthrough was the agreement signed in July 2005 which facilitates renewed bilateral civilian nuclear cooperation (Mohan, 2007). Once again, this is a key regional power that could have balanced more directly and independently against China, but has rather chosen to align itself or bandwagon with the primary power, the United States, partly because of significant bilateral gains, but fundamentally in order to support the latter's regional order-managing function. Recognizing a regional hierarchy and seeing that the lower layers of this hierarchy have become more active since the mid-1970s also allows us to understand why there has been no outright balancing of China by regional states since the 1990s. On the one hand, the US position at the top of the hierarchy has been revived since the mid-1990s, meaning that deterrence against potential Chinese aggression is reliable and in place.14 On the other hand, the aim of regional states is to try to consolidate China's inclusion in the regional hierarchy at the level below that of the United States, not to keep it down or to exclude it. East Asian states recognize that they cannot, without great cost to themselves, contain Chinese growth. But they hope to socialize China by enmeshing it in peaceful regional norms and economic and security institutions. They also know that they can also help to ensure that the capabilities gap between China and the United States remains wide enough to deter a power transition. Because this strategy requires persuading China about the appropriateness of its position in the hierarchy and of the legitimacy of the US position, all East Asian states engage significantly with China, with the small Southeast Asian states refusing openly to ‘choose sides’ between the United States and China. Yet, hierarchical deference continues to explain why regional institutions such as the ASEAN Regional Forum, ASEAN + 3, and East Asian Summit have made limited progress. While the United State has made room for regional multilateral institutions after the end of the Cold War, its hierarchical preponderance also constitutes the regional order to the extent that it cannot comfortably be excluded from any substantive strategic developments. On the part of some lesser states (particularly Japan and Singapore), hierarchical deference is manifested in inclusionary impulses (or at least impulses not to exclude the United States or US proxies) in regional institutions, such as the East Asia Summit in December 2005. Disagreement on this issue with others, including China and Malaysia, has stymied potential progress in these regional institutions (Malik, 2006). Finally, conceiving of a US-led East Asian hierarchy amplifies our understanding of how and why the United States–China relationship is now the key to regional order. The vital nature of the Sino-American relationship stems from these two states' structural positions. As discussed earlier, China is the primary second-tier power in the regional hierarchy. However, as Chinese power grows and Chinese activism spreads beyond Asia, the United States is less and less able to see China as merely a regional power – witness the growing concerns about Chinese investment and aid in certain African countries. This causes a disjuncture between US global interests and US regional interests. Regional attempts to engage and socialize China are aimed at mediating its intentions. This process, however, cannot stem Chinese growth, which forms the material basis of US threat perceptions. Apprehensions about the growth of China's power culminates in US fears about the region being ‘lost’ to China, echoing Cold War concerns that transcribed regional defeats into systemic setbacks.15 On the other hand, the US security strategy post-Cold War and post-9/11 have regional manifestations that disadvantage China. The strengthening of US alliances with Japan and Australia; and the deployment of US troops to Central, South, and Southeast Asia all cause China to fear a consolidation of US global hegemony that will first threaten Chinese national security in the regional context and then stymie China's global reach. Thus, the key determinants of the East Asian security order relate to two core questions: (i) Can the US be persuaded that China can act as a reliable ‘regional stakeholder’ that will help to buttress regional stability and US global security aims;16 and (ii) can China be convinced that the United States has neither territorial ambitions in Asia nor the desire to encircle China, but will help to promote Chinese development and stability as part of its global security strategy? (Wang, 2005). But, these questions cannot be asked in the abstract, outside the context of negotiation about their relative positions in the regional and global hierarchies. One urgent question for further investigation is how the process of assurance and deference operate at the topmost levels of a hierarchy? When we have two great powers of unequal strength but contesting claims and a closing capabilities gap in the same regional hierarchy, how much scope for negotiation is there, before a reversion to balancing dynamics? This is the main structural dilemma: as long as the United States does not give up its primary position in the Asian regional hierarchy, China is very unlikely to act in a way that will provide comforting answers to the two questions. Yet, the East Asian regional order has been and still is constituted by US hegemony, and to change that could be extremely disruptive and may lead to regional actors acting in highly destabilizing ways. Rapid Japanese remilitarization, armed conflict across the Taiwan Straits, Indian nuclear brinksmanship directed toward Pakistan, or a highly destabilized Korean peninsula are all illustrative of potential regional disruptions. 5. Conclusion To construct a coherent account of East Asia's evolving security order, I have suggested that the United States is the central force in constituting regional stability and order. The major patterns of equilibrium and turbulence in the region since 1945 can be explained by the relative stability of the US position at the top of the regional hierarchy, with periods of greatest insecurity being correlated with greatest uncertainty over the American commitment to managing regional order. Furthermore, relationships of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference explain the unusual character of regional order in the post-Cold War era. However, the greatest contemporary challenge to East Asian order is the potential conflict between China and the United States over rank ordering in the regional hierarchy, a contest made more potent because of the inter-twining of regional and global security concerns. Ultimately, though, investigating such questions of positionality requires conceptual lenses that go beyond basic material factors because it entails social and normative questions. How can China be brought more into a leadership position, while being persuaded to buy into shared strategic interests and constrain its own in ways that its vision of regional and global security may eventually be reconciled with that of the United States and other regional players? How can Washington be persuaded that its central position in the hierarchy must be ultimately shared in ways yet to be determined? The future of the East Asian security order is tightly bound up with the durability of the United States' global leadership and regional domination. At the regional level, the main scenarios of disruption are an outright Chinese challenge to US leadership, or the defection of key US allies, particularly Japan. Recent history suggests, and the preceding analysis has shown, that challenges to or defections from US leadership will come at junctures where it appears that the US commitment to the region is in doubt, which in turn destabilizes the hierarchical order. At the global level, American geopolitical over-extension will be the key cause of change. This is the one factor that could lead to both greater regional and global turbulence, if only by the attendant strategic uncertainly triggering off regional challenges or defections. However, it is notoriously difficult to gauge thresholds of over-extension. More positively, East Asia is a region that has adjusted to previous periods of uncertainty about US primacy. Arguably, the regional consensus over the United States as primary state in a system of benign hierarchy could accommodate a shifting of the strategic burden to US allies like Japan and Australia as a means of systemic preservation. The alternatives that could surface as a result of not doing so would appear to be much worse.

Finally, US global influence is key to check great power nuclear conflict
Gray, 5 – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” http://www.carlisle.army. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm)

6. Interstate War, Down but Far from Out Logically, the reverse side of the coin which proclaims a trend favoring political violence internal to states is the claim that interstate warfare is becoming, or has become, a historical curiosity. Steven Metz and Raymond Millen assure us that “most armed conflicts in coming decades are likely to be internal ones.”21 That is probably a safe prediction, though one might choose to be troubled by their prudent hedging with the qualifier “most.” Their plausible claim would look a little different in hindsight were it to prove true except for a mere one or two interstate nuclear conflicts, say between India and Pakistan, or North Korea and the United States and its allies. The same authors also offer the comforting judgment that “decisive war between major states is rapidly moving toward history’s dustbin.”22 It is an attractive claim; it is a shame that it is wrong. War, let alone “decisive war,” between major states currently is enjoying an off-season for one main reason: So extreme is the imbalance of military power in favor of the United States that potential rivals rule out policies that might lead to hostilities with the superpower. It is fashionable to argue that major interstate war is yesterday’s problem—recall that the yesterday in question is barely 15 years in the past—because now there is nothing to fight about and nothing to be gained by armed conflict. Would that those points were true; unfortunately they are not. The menace of major, if not necessarily decisive, interstate war will return to frighten us when great-power rivals feel able to challenge American hegemony. If you read Thucydides, or Donald Kagan, you will be reminded of the deadly and eternal influence of the triad of motives for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23

====Afghanistan==== 
Afghan Pullout devastates US credibility and ends hegemony *
**Bret <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Stephens</span></span>, (Foreign-affairs columnist of the Wall Street Journal and deputy editorial page editor), 9-7-<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">9</span></span>, WSJ, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203440104574398442481337048.html#articleTabs%3Darticle]]]**
**In 1979 the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan. A little less than a decade later, the Soviets left, humiliated and defeated. Within months the Berlin Wall fell and two years later the USSR was no more. Westerners may debate whether credit for these events belongs chiefly to Mikhail Gorbachev, Ronald Reagan, Pope John Paul II, Charlie Wilson or any number of people who stuck a needle in the Soviet balloon. But in Islamist mythology, it was Afghan and Arab mujahedeen who brought down the godless superpower. And if one superpower could be brought down, why not the other?**
**Put simply, it was the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan that laid much of the imaginative groundwork for 9/11. So imagine the sorts of notions that would take root in the minds of jihadists—and the possibilities that would open up to them—if the U.S. was to withdraw from Afghanistan in its own turn.**
**Notion One: Attacks on the scale of 9/11 are by no means fatal to the cause of radical Islam. On the contrary, despite the huge losses the movement has suffered over the past eight years, it would emerge from a U.S. defeat in Afghanistan with something it was denied in Iraq: a monumental political and ideological victory from which it could recruit a new field of avid jihadists. Ergo, further attacks on the U.S. homeland could yield similar long-term benefits.**
**Notion Two: The U.S. has no stomach for long-term counterinsurgency. Ergo, surrender or political accommodation to apparent U.S. military success is pointless; if you hold out long enough, they leave and you win.**
**Notion Three: The U.S. is not prepared to stand by its clients in the Third World if it believes those clients are morally tainted. That happened to South Vietnam's Nguyen Van Thieu, it happened to the Shah of Iran and, if the U.S. leaves Afghanistan, it will happen to the lamentable Hamid Karzai. Ergo, other shaky or dubious U.S. allies in the Muslim world—Algeria, for instance, or, yes, Saudi Arabia—are prime targets for renewed assault.**
**Notion Four: A U.S. that doesn't have the stomach for a relatively easy fight like Afghanistan, where even now casualties are a fraction of what they were in Iraq during the worst of the fighting, will have even less stomach for much tougher fights. Ergo, maximum efforts should go into destabilizing and, not implausibly, taking over Pakistan, a country that, as Mr. Will says, "actually matters."**
**And from here the possibilities flow. Withdrawal from Afghanistan, and a Taliban takeover in Kandahar and perhaps Kabul, would plunge Afghanistan into another civil war infinitely bloodier than what we have now. Withdrawal would force Islamabad to abandon its war on terror and again come to terms with its own militants, as it did in the 1990s. Only this time, it wouldn't be clear who is patron and who is client. Withdrawal would give Pakistan's jihadists the freedom to shift fronts to India, with all the nightmare scenarios that entails. Withdrawal would invite the al Qaeda remnant in Iraq—already on an upswing—to redouble its efforts, and do so with the confidence that the U.S. has permanently soured on Middle Eastern interventions.**
**This is a partial list. The alternative is a winding and bloody struggle to defend and improve a hapless and often corrupt government in a godforsaken land of often (though by no means pervasively) ungrateful people. This is not the noblest fight, and no sane nation would wage it by choice. But we did not choose it and, if we keep our nerve, we can win it. Otherwise, the consequence will be ashes flying again in our own streets, something to remember on the eve of another 9/11 anniversary.**

**Nuclear War**
**Zalmay <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Khalilzad</span></span>, (Former Assist Prof of Poli Sci at Columbia), 19<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">95</span></span> Spring, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 2; P. 84**
**Under the third option, the United States would seek to retain global leadership and to preclude the rise of a global rival or a return to multipolarity for the indefinite future. On balance, this is the best long-term guiding principle and vision. Such a vision is desirable not as an end in itself, but because a world in which the United States exercises leadership would have tremendous advantages. First, the global environment would be more open and more receptive to American values -- democracy, free markets, and the rule of law. Second, such a world would have a better chance of dealing cooperatively with the world's major problems, such as nuclear proliferation, threats of regional hegemony by renegade states, and low-level conflicts. Finally, U.S. leadership would help preclude the rise of another hostile global rival, enabling the United States and the world to avoid another global cold or hot war and all the attendant dangers, including a global nuclear exchange. U.S. leadership would therefore be more conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system**


=====[[#Negative-Disads-Hegemony-Afghanistan-2NC Uniqueness]]2NC Uniqueness===== 
US Heg high due to military


**<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Guardian, 11-2</span></span>-10, www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2010/nov/02/us-america-economic-leadership**
**Of course, due to its sheer military might and numerous alliances, the US will remain on top for the foreseeable future. Indeed, while hubris and the crisis have seriously undermined the world's "hyperpower", no multipolar order has emerged to follow America's "unipolar moment". America has become the "default power", because China, the most likely challenger, is, by its own admission, a long way from economic or military parity with the US.**

**US Hegemony not declining – only risk of decline is if we stop exerting strong leadership**
**Dr. Derek <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Reveron</span></span>, (Professor of national security affairs and the EMC Informationist Chair at the U.S. Naval War College in Newport, Rhode Island), <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">11-8</span></span>-10, “Myth of American Declinism,” [[http://sitrep.globalsecurity.org/articles/101108670-myth-of-american-declinism.htm]]**
**Over 20 years ago, former Assistant Secretary of Defense Joseph Nye commented that, "Although the United States still has leverage over particular countries, it has far less leverage over the system as a whole." Nye observed that not only was the international system changing from bipolar to unipolar, but also power itself was changing, which is the ability to shape the outcomes you want and change the behavior of others. There are certainly indications that U.S. military and economic power does not directly translate into dominance, but it also is premature to predict American decline.**
**The world is still unipolar. In a new study for the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Studies, retired Ambassador Eric Edelman challenges the declinist view of the United States and asks: Will the undeniable relative decline of the United States, in fact, lead to the end of unipolarity? Do the BRIC countries really represent a bloc? What would multipolarity look like? How does one measure national power anyhow, and how can one measure the change in the power distribution globally? Is the rise of global competitors inevitable? What are some of the weaknesses that might hamper the would-be competitors from staying on their current favorable economic and political trajectory? Does the United States possess some underappreciated strengths that might serve as the basis for continued primacy in the international system and, if so, what steps would a prudent government take to extend that primacy into the future? The study offers both an assessment of the emerging powers and the United States. Ambassador Edelman concludes that the European Union and Japan are marred by different demographic crises and dependent on the United States for security; Brazil is growing, but faces long-term social and economic limitations and is a good candidate for partnership with the United States; Russia will likely have serious political tensions with China in the Far East; India is beset by a daunting array of demographic, economic, social, political and security problems; and China is facing a perfect storm of economic, demographic, and social unrest that has led some observers to conjecture that China, far from being a rising power, is actually on the verge of collapse. With this assessment, Edelman concludes: With all of the problems and uncertainties that the emerging economies face and the enormous challenges that bedevil the developed world in Europe and Japan, only one thing seems certain: events will drive international economics and politics in directions that no one now anticipates and the certainties about rising and falling powers are likely to be knocked askew by a fickle and unpredictable fate. While American power is checked in the economic, diplomatic, and cultural spheres, its ideology still dominates the international system. Wealth is migrating to Asia, but many leading states of the world crave and demand continued U.S. leadership. Edelman does think**
**The period of unipolarity has been based on a singular fact: the United States is the first leading state in modern international history with decisive preponderance in all the underlying components of power: economic, military, technological and geopolitical. With the possible exception of Brazil, all the other powers face serious internal and external security challenges. Japan, with its economic and demographic challenges, must deal with a de facto nuclear-armed, failing state (the DPRK) nearby and must also cast an uneasy glance at a rising China. India has domestic violence, insurgencies in bordering countries (Nepal and Bangladesh) and a persistent security dilemma with respect to China. The demographic challenges will be particularly acute for Europe, Japan, and Russia in the areas of military man- power and economic growth. The results will either diminish overall military strength or, in the case of Russia, impose a greater reliance on nuclear weapons.**
**Edelman thinks that declinism is a choice and that the United States must get its political and economic house in order. However, he sees strong fundamentals, which are missing from potential rivals (except Brazil, which he sees a logical partner for the United States). These fundamentals include: strong food production, geographic position, energy reserves of coal and gas, culture of innovation, and healthy fertility rates. With a good strategy and strong leaders, American declinism is likely to remain a myth, albeit persistent.**


=====[[#Negative-Disads-Hegemony-Afghanistan-2NC Links]]2NC Links===== 
Afghan pullout obliterates hegemony by signaling massive US weakness, emboldening challengers and alienating allies


**Dan <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Twining</span></span>, (senior fellow for Asia at the German Marshall Fund of the United States), September 30, 200<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">9</span></span>, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan,” [[http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan]]**
**The problem with the current debate over Afghanistan is that it is too focused on Afghanistan. There is no question that the intrinsic importance of winning wars our country chooses to fight -- to secure objectives that remain as compelling today as they were on September 12, 2001 -- is itself reason for President Obama to put in place a strategy for victory in Afghanistan. But the larger frame has been lost in the din of debate over General McChrystal's leaked assessment, President Obama's intention to ramp up or draw down in Afghanistan, and the legitimacy of the Afghan election. In fact, it is vital for the United States and its allies to recommit to building an Afghan state that can accountably govern its people and defeat the Taliban insurgency -- for reasons that have to do not only with Afghanistan's specific pathologies but with the implications of failure for the wider region and America's place in the international system.**
**The surreal belief in some quarters that abandoning Afghanistan -- described as a "graveyard of empires" with its complicated tribes, forbidding terrain, and peripheral strategic importance -- would not have direct and bloody consequences for the United States, never mind the Afghan people, can be answered with three numbers: 9-11. It is troubling that our political and foreign policy elites even need to engage this debate (including its more sophisticated but equally illusory variants like moving to an "over-the-horizon" strike-and-retreat strategy). At the same time, the experts (correctly) advocating a counterinsurgency strategy make the same mistake of framing their arguments purely with reference to Afghanistan's internal dynamics. As important as they are, they constitute only part of a wider strategic landscape that would be upended by a U.S. decision to reduce its political and military commitment to Afghanistan.**
**A recent trip to Islamabad and Lahore revealed to me that most Pakistani elites -- including the small minority that could credibly be described as sympathetic to Western goals in Afghanistan -- already believe that the game is up: the will of the transatlantic allies is broken, Obama doesn't have the courage or vision to see America's mission in Afghanistan through to victory, and the U.S. is well along the road to walking away from Afghanistan as it did after 1989. This widespread Pakistani belief has encouraged behavior deeply inimical to Washington's regional aims, with the effect that the American debate over whether Afghanistan is worth it is inspiring Pakistani actions that will make success all the harder to achieve.**
**After all, why shouldn't the Pakistani security services continue to invest in their friendly relations with the Taliban if Mullah Omar and company soon will take power in Afghanistan's Pashtun heartland? Why should the Pakistani military take on the militant groups that regularly launch cross-border attacks into Afghanistan when the NATO targets of those attacks will soon slink away in defeat? Why should the Pakistani government get serious about wrapping up the Quetta Shura when the Afghan Taliban appears to be ascendant in the face of Western weakness? Why should Pakistan's intelligence service break its ties to Lashkar-e-Taiba, one of the world's most potent terrorist groups, when it forms such a useful instrument with which to bleed U.S. ally India? And why should Pakistani civilian and military leaders overtly cooperate with the United States when it appears such a weak and unreliable ally of the Afghan people -- incapable, despite its singular wealth and resources, of defeating a 25,000-man insurgency in one of the poorest countries on Earth?**
**As Chris Brose and I recently argued, it is vital for the West to prevail in Afghanistan because of its effect in shaping Pakistan's strategic future. Proponents of drawing down in Afghanistan on the grounds that Pakistan is the more important strategic prize have it only half right: if Pakistan is the strategic prize, it should be unthinkable not to press for victory in Afghanistan given the spillover effects of a Western defeat there. All of Pakistan's pathologies -- from terrorist sanctuary in ungoverned spaces, to radicalized public opinion that creates an enabling environment for violent extremism, to lack of economic opportunity that incentivizes militancy, to the (in)security of Pakistan's nuclear arsenal, to the military's oversized role in political life in ways that stunt the development of civilian institutions -- all of this will intensify should Afghanistan succumb to the Taliban as the West withdraws.**
**These dynamics, in turn, will destabilize India in ways that could torpedo the country's rise to world power -- and the strategic dividends America would reap from India's success. New Delhi is now a truer proponent of Washington's original objectives in Afghanistan -- the Taliban's decisive defeat by military force rather than reconciliation and the construction of a capable Afghan democracy -- than some American leaders are now. Afghanistan is in India's backyard -- they shared a border until 1947 -- and the collapse of its government would destabilize Pakistan in ways that would quickly cost Indian dearly. Indian strategists fear that the spillover from a Taliban victory in Afghanistan would induce Pakistan's "Lebanonization," with the Pakistani Taliban becoming a kind of South Asian Hezbollah that would launch waves of crippling attacks against India. India cannot rise to be an Asian balancer, global security provider, and engine of the world economy if it is mired in interminable proxy conflict with terrorists emanating from a weak or collapsing state armed with nuclear weapons on its border.**
**The strategic implications of a Western defeat in Afghanistan for American relations with other major powers are similarly troubling. The biggest game-changer in the nuclear standoff with Iran is not new sanctions or military action but a popular uprising by the Iranian people that changes the character of the radical regime in Tehran -- a prospect one would expect to be meaningfully diminished by the usurpation through violence of the Afghan government, against the will of a majority of Afghans, by the religious extremists of the Taliban. And despite welcome new unity in the West on a tougher approach to Iran's development of nuclear weapons following revelations of a new nuclear complex in Qum, how can Washington, London, Paris, and Berlin stare down the leaders of Iran -- a potentially hegemonic Middle Eastern state with an advanced conventional and near-nuclear arsenal and a vast national resource base -- if they can't even hold their own against the cave-dwelling, Kalashnikov-wielding despots of the Taliban?**
**Russia appears to be quietly reveling in the prospect that NATO, which appeared so threatening to Russian eyes during its multiple rounds of enlargement during the 1990s, could be defeated in its first real out-of-area operation. A NATO defeat in Afghanistan would call into question the future of the alliance and the credibility of American leadership with it, possibly creating a new and lasting transatlantic breach and intensifying concerns about the alliance's ability to protect weak European states against a resurgent Russia. China has no interest in Afghanistan's collapse into a sanctuary for Islamist extremists, including Uighers who militate against China's rule in Xinjiang. But a Western defeat in Afghanistan, which if historical precedent holds would be followed by a bout of U.S. isolationism, would only create more space for China to pursue its (for now) peaceful rise.**
**And that is the point: the debate over whether to prevail in Afghanistan is about so much more. An American recommitment to a sustained counterinsurgency strategy that turned around the conflict would demonstrate that the United States and its democratic allies remain the principal providers of public goods -- in this case, the security and stability of a strategically vital region that threatens the global export of violent extremism -- in the international system. A new and sustained victory strategy for Afghanistan would show that Washington is singularly positioned to convene effective coalitions and deliver solutions to intractable international problems in ways that shore up the stability of an international economic and political order that has provided greater degrees of human freedom and prosperity than any other.**
**By contrast, a U.S. decision to wash its hands of Afghanistan would send a different message to friends and competitors alike. It would hasten the emergence of a different kind of international order, one in which history no longer appeared to be on the side of the United States and its friends. Islamic extremism, rather than continuing to lose ground to the universal promise of democratic modernity, would gain new legs -- after all, Afghan Islamists would have defeated their second superpower in a generation. Rival states that contest Western leadership of the international order and reject the principles of open society would increase their influence at America's expense. Just as most Afghans are not prepared to live under a new Taliban regime, so most Americans are surely not prepared to live in a world in which the United States voluntarily cedes its influence, power, and moral example to others who share neither our interests nor our values.**


====[[#Negative-Disads-Hegemony-South Korea]]South Korea==== 
SK Pullout kills US credibility with other allies and adversaries, collapsing hegemony and causing war


**Todd B. <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Henricks</span></span>, (Lieutenant Commander, Civil Engineer Corps, United States Navy), 14 February 200<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">5</span></span>, A paper submitted to the faculty of the Naval War College, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463965&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]**
**USFK Force Realignments Will Have Adverse Effects on U.S.-ROK Relations**
**Moving USFK military forces out of South Korea will have adverse effects on the**
**U.S.-ROK alliance in the following areas: The ROK will consider the United States as**
**having broken defense commitments; the ROK will be left vulnerable to attack due to**
**lack of adequate military advancements; and the ROK will question the United States’**
**commitment of defense should North Korea attack.**
**The ROK will consider the United States as having broken defense commitments.**
**A significant factor to remember is that the Korean War has not officially ended. Even**
**though there has been an “armed truce” which has been in place for over 50 years,**
**withdrawing U.S. troops would be tantamount to leaving an ally on the battlefield to be**
**run over by the enemy. “By deploying USFK in a forward area as a ‘tripwire’12 in order**
**to defend and retaliate against the North Korean attack, the United States has successfully**
**deterred North Korea’s attack.”13 Although this is an extreme picture of the U.S.-ROK**
**alliance situation, it still deserves some consideration. “Abrogation of the U.S. security**
**treaty with South Korea and abandonment of that long-standing ally…could seriously**
**degrade the importance of military power as a U.S. foreign policy implement, undercut**
**U.S. interests in national credibility, and perhaps encourage aggression against other U.S.**
**friends around the world. Civil war on the Korean Peninsula probably would erupt. The**
**Republic of Korea and Japan might feel needs to develop their own nuclear weapons.”14**
**The deterrence of North Korea and the defense of South Korea is firmly grounded in the**
**presence of USFK military forces, for “…it is impossible to talk about the [U.S.-ROK]**
**alliance without focusing on USFK.”15**

**Nuclear War**
**Zalmay <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Khalilzad</span></span>, (Former Assist Prof of Poli Sci at Columbia), 19<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">95</span></span> Spring, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 18, No. 2; P. 84**
**Under the third option, the United States would seek to retain global leadership and to preclude the rise of a global rival or a return to multipolarity for the indefinite future. On balance, this is the best long-term guiding principle and vision. Such a vision is desirable not as an end in itself, but because a world in which the United States exercises leadership would have tremendous advantages. First, the global environment would be more open and more receptive to American values -- democracy, free markets, and the rule of law. Second, such a world would have a better chance of dealing cooperatively with the world's major problems, such as nuclear proliferation, threats of regional hegemony by renegade states, and low-level conflicts. Finally, U.S. leadership would help preclude the rise of another hostile global rival, enabling the United States and the world to avoid another global cold or hot war and all the attendant dangers, including a global nuclear exchange. U.S. leadership would therefore be more conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system**


=====[[#Negative-Disads-Hegemony-South Korea-Links]]Links===== 
US withdrawal from Korea devastates US hegemony and causes nuclear arms race and nuclear war in East Asia


**Corey <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Richardson</span></span>, (Washington-based analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense), 9-9-<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">6</span></span>, Asia Times, www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html**
**Rumors of a substantial drawdown or complete withdrawal of US Forces Korea (USFK) have been around for decades. After years of a South Korean administration generally hostile to US regional objectives and priorities, perhaps the rumors are finally becoming a reality. That would be a tragedy for both sides.**
**If the US were to leave Korea, how would US influence in the region be altered? How would Korea's relationships with China and Japan change? What about the strengthening US-Japan alliance? What if North Korea collapsed? These questions have largely escaped critical consideration in the current debate.**
**Despite President Roh Moo-hyun's stunning obliviousness to political and security realities, South Korea would be particularly vulnerable without USFK, or even with a token force left in place. For its part, the US cannot realistically expect to maintain or improve its ability to exert regional influence by leaving Korea.**
**Like US Forces Japan (USFJ), America's Korean contingent helps prevent conflict by acting as a strong deterrent for any nation that might consider military actions or threats, at the same time moderating the responses of the host nation in tense situations.**
**Obviously, the original purpose of the US-South Korea alliance was to counter the North Korean threat. However, as that threat has waned, a more important, diplomatically incorrect mission has evolved in addition to deterring North Korea: ensuring stability among China, Japan and Korea.**
**The North Korean threat is nonetheless the reason for the majority of South Korea's defenses, even if Seoul won't say so in defense white papers. No conventional military calculus suggests the possibility of a North Korean victory in a second Korean War, but a weaker South Korean military could cause Pyongyang to miscalculate. South Korea's defenses must remain strong.**
**Regional tensions, but stability**
**Even with USFK in Korea, issues from the region's long and often confrontational history cause tensions to flare.**
**Chinese claims that Koguryo, an ancient ethnically Korean kingdom whose territories extended into present-day China, was in fact a Chinese kingdom have raised Korean hackles on several occasions. The move is viewed as the possible groundwork for justifying a Chinese invasion of the northern half of the peninsula, perhaps to "help" a North Korea on the verge of implosion, or after collapse.**
**China's plans to register Mount Baekdu (Changbai in Chinese) as a Chinese historical site with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Geopark list was also viewed as a possible prelude to claiming North Korean territory. The mountain, sacred to both sides, straddles the border. A 1962 agreement between the two countries split ownership of the mountain.**
**This view is bolstered by the fact that China prefers to retain border buffer zones and would not relish having a reunified Korea, potentially with US forces just across the Yalu River. South Korea could not prevent China from sending troops into North Korea, and the US likely would not risk war with China over North Korea.**
**Japan's colonial domination of Korea from 1910 to 1945 has left a deep and bitter resentment in both Koreas that is apt to provoke emotional and drastic responses.**
**One high-profile manifestation of this is the decades-long dispute over the ownership of some relatively insignificant islets in the waters between the peninsula and the archipelago, the Liancourt Rocks. Known as Dokdo in Korea and Takeshima in Japan, South Korea has stationed a Coast Guard contingent on the island since 1954 to enforce its claim. Both nations claim the area as a part of their exclusive economic zones (EEZs).**
**In 2005 South Korea scrambled fighters to intercept a civilian Japanese Cessna aircraft nearing Dokdo airspace. When Japan announced plans to conduct a hydrographic survey of the area, South Korea made vague threats alluding to possible military action against the research vessels. Japan backed down.**
**Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's numerous visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, dedicated to Japan's war dead including some convicted war criminals, have raised diplomatic tensions with both South Korea and China on several occasions, including a temporary recall of South Korea's ambassador in Japan.**
**Ripe for an arms race**
**South Korea wants to be the "hub" of something in East Asia, and it may finally have its chance, thanks to the Roh administration.**
**The current US-South Korea situation is a case of "be careful of what you ask for because you might get it". Even so, the psychological impact on South Korea of a significant USFK departure likely would not be immediate but should not be underestimated. A massive reduction of US troop levels and capabilities could have the same effect as a complete withdrawal on Seoul's planning processes. It might begin with regretful concern, but could quickly become panic.**
**At this point it should be noted that even if the USFK withdraws from Korea, some sort of collaborative security agreement will remain in place.** However, South Korea's perception **of America's commitment to security on the peninsula is the decisive factor in how it will react to real and perceived threats. What are now relatively minor disagreements with Japan and China would take on a more serious dimension.**
**Without USFK, South Korea would need to vastly increase its defense budget to make up for functions long taken for granted. With American forces on its soil as a safety net, South Korea didn't have to be overly concerned with being attacked or invaded. Many Koreans would perceive that era over.**
**Another factor is the closer US-Japan security partnership, which causes both China and South Korea concern. Some in the South Korean defense sector are undoubtedly jealous of the relationship Japan enjoys with the US.**
**Japan would also need to take into consideration a South Korea without the moderating influence of USFK, although the role of USFJ in Japan would reduce much concern.**
**In such an environment it's not unthinkable that a few minor skirmishes could occur, between South Korean and Japanese navel vessels in the vicinity of Dokdo, for example. This would be the slow start of a regional arms race, with Korea and Japan joining China's ongoing buildup.**
**A reunified Korea could go nuclear**
**North Korea is the wildcard. If in the next few years reunification were to occur - through a North Korean collapse, the death of Kim Jong-il, or a possible but unlikely mutual agreement - South Korea would suddenly find itself straddled with the enormous cost of integrating North Korea.**
**These costs would dwarf the already massive increase South Korea would have been undertaking in defense spending, something it would clearly be unprepared and unable to accomplish while maintaining its defense investment.**
**A Korea faced with an economic dilemma of such magnitude would find maintaining its conventional military forces at current levels impossible. At the same time, it would feel more vulnerable than ever, even with US security assurances.**
**For a nation paranoid about the possibility of outside influence or military intervention, strapped for cash, and obsessed about its position in the international hierarchy, the obvious route might be to either incorporate North Korean nuclear devices (if they actually exist), or build their own, something South Korean technicians could easily accomplish. North Korea, after all, has set the example for economically challenged nations looking for the ultimate in deterrence.**
**One might argue that clear and firm US security guarantees for a reunified Korea would be able to dissuade any government from choosing the nuclear option. If making decisions based purely on logic the answer would be probably yes.**
**Unfortunately, the recent Korean leadership has established a record of being motivated more by emotional and nationalistic factors than logical or realistic ones. Antics over Dokdo and the Yasukuni Shrine and alienating the US serve as examples. But the continuation of the "Sunshine Policy" tops those.**
**Instead of admitting they've been sold a dead horse, the Roh administration continued riding the rotting and bloated beast known as the Sunshine Policy, until all that are left today are a pile of bones, a bit of dried skin, and a few tufts of dirty hair. Roh, however, is still in the saddle, if not as firmly after North Korea's recent missile tests.**
**Japan must then consider its options in countering an openly nuclear, reunified Korea without USFK. Already building momentum to change its constitution to clarify its military, it's not inconceivable that Japan would ultimately consider going nuclear to deter Korea. As in South Korea, there is no technological barrier preventing Japan from building nuclear weapons.**
**While the details of the race and escalation of tensions can vary in any number of ways and are not inevitable, that an arms race would occur is probable.** Only the perception of threat and vulnerability need be present **for this to occur.**
**East Asia could become a nuclear powder keg ready to explode over something as childish as the Dokdo/Takeshima dispute between Korea and Japan, a Diaoyu/Senkakus dispute between China and Japan, or the Koguryo dispute between Korea and China.**

**South Korean withdrawal uniquely destroys credibility which is on the brink – other withdrawals not key**
**Robert E <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Kelly</span></span>, (Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science & Diplomacy at Pusan National University), December 18, 200<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">9</span></span>, Asian Security Blog, [[http://asiansecurityblog.wordpress.com/2009/12/18/should-the-us-pull-out-of-south-korea-2-no/]]**
**US SecDef Gates recently reaffirmed in very strong language the US commitment to Korean security. This served as a catalyst to extensive discussions among my colleagues about the value of the US commitment to SK. This is part 2 of the debate. My own thinking tilts toward the opinions in this post.**
**So here is why we should stay:**
**1. If we leave, everyone in Asia will read it as a sign that we are weak and that we are leaving Asia generally. Yes, this is the credibility argument straight out of the Vietnam, Iraq, and Afghanistan debates. But the world sees US power today as wavering; we are the tottering giant, especially in Asia. If we leave during the GWoT, that image will be confirmed, and the Chinese will push hard in Asia. A US departure will touch off an arms race as regional uncertainty rises. Asia is not where Europe or Latin America are in terms of regional amity. The US presence is more needed in this region, and it earns the US the friendship of the local democracies. It is hard to see how a spiraling arms race, as Japan and China openly start competing for regional leadership, plus perhaps India and China, would help the US. The US could very well be pulled back in later. A US departure from Korea (and Japan next?) will be read as a clear victory for China in the Sino-US regional competition.**


===[[#Negative-Disads-South Korean Economy]]South Korean Economy=== 
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Plan collapses South Korean economy – guts investment </span></span>


**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Magnum 4</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">- Brigadier Commanding General for Special Operations in South Korea </span></span></span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">(Spring 2004, Korean Journal of Defense Analysis, “Joint Force Training: Key to ROK Military Transformation”, pg online @ [[[http://www.kida.re.kr/data/2006/04/13/06_ronald_s_mangum.pdf]]]) </span></span></span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Many </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Koreans ignore</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;"> the fact </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">that while the ROK economy performed exceptionally well during the Asian economic crisis</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;"> of the late 1990s, </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">it is a fragile economy that is dependent on regional stability to encourage continued foreign investment. Investors state that a strong military presence in South Korea provides stability against foreign aggression, </span></span></span>**which gives investors the confidence **to put money in the Korean economy. Because Korea relies so heavily on the import of natural resources to fuel its industry, the lack of foreign investment to permit the purchase of those resources would be devastating.<span class="Underline"> <span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Consequently, </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">maintaining a strong</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;"> military, whether independent of a </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">U.S. military presence or not, is critical to maintaining the health of the South Korean economy. This fact is often overlooked in the ROK public’s emotional rush to seek equality in its relationship with the U</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">nited </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">tates. Furthermore, without strong public will to support and pay for the transformation of ROK forces into a strong regional military, the ROK public may not let its government spend the money necessary to improve the capability of its forces. </span></span>**

**South Korean economy is key to Asian democracy**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Newsweek, 10</span></span> (1/29/10, “Selling South Korea,” <span class="BoldUnderline">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/01/28/selling-south-korea.html]]</span>) </span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">In short, the South Korean model is a more mature cousin of China's—a hybrid economy, part free market, part state-controlled—but with more freedom for the market and for political dissent. Now <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Lee is positioning South Korea within Asia as a dynamic alternative to both China's mighty command economy</span></span> and Japan's no-growth economy. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In Southeast Asia, South Korea has long been admired for completing an economic miracle in just one generation,</span></span> moving its 48 million people out of poverty and entering the ranks of fully industrialized nations, with average per capita income that surpassed $20,000 in 2007. And, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">unlike China, South Korea has achieved economic and political growth at the same time, with an increasingly well-established multiparty democracy that respects free speech and election results. South Korea</span></span>, says U.S. Ambassador Kathleen Stephens, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">is "the best example in the post–World War II era of a country that has overcome enormous obstacles to achieve this kind of success." Many Southeast Asian nations, alarmed by the harsh sides of the China model, look to South Korea as an alternative. Vietnam is sending civil servants there</span></span>, studying how in the 1970s and '80s Seoul used massive government support, such as cheap loans, to develop strategic industries such as steel and petrochemicals as the backbone of its export economy. As part of Vietnam's effort to develop capital markets, it also now runs a stock exchange in Hanoi, built with the help of the Korea Stock Exchange. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Officials from Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, and Uzbekistan regularly visit South Korea to join training programs that teach economic and business management. "Developing countries are eager to learn South Korea's economic model because of its relevance to them,"</span></span> says Euh Yoon-dae, a Korea University economist currently heading a presidential committee to promote the national brand. "<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Our open economic system is more appealing to them than, say, that of China."</span></span> </span>**

**Extinction**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Diamond, 95</span></span> – Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, [[http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm]]) </span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">This hardly exhausts the lists of threats to our security and well-being in the coming years and decades. In the former Yugoslavia <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">nationalist aggression tears at the stability of Europe and could easily spread. The flow of illegal drugs intensifies through increasingly powerful international crime syndicates that have made common cause with authoritarian regimes and have utterly corrupted the institutions of tenuous, democratic ones. Nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons continue to proliferate. The very source of life on Earth, the global ecosystem, appears increasingly endangered. Most of these new and unconventional threats to security are associated with or aggravated by the weakness or absence of democracy, with its provisions for legality, accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness. </span></span></span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Plan also stops U.S. foothold in the Asian Pacific Market which will collapse the U.S. economy </span></span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Kinne, 4</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">- Colonel and US Army Researcher (5/3/04, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea” pg online @ [[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691]]]) </span></span></span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Strategic </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">withdrawal of U.S. forces from South Korea would present</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;"> some unique </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">economic challenges for the U</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">nited </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">tates. As discussed earlier, </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">removal of forces might promote a peaceful solution</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;"> that affords the U.S. and other regional actor’s access to a new and emerging North Korean market. </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Although</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;"> remotely </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">possible, this is highly unlikely given the North’s past history and aggressive nature. More than likely, the U.S. would lose global and regional credibility, unfettered access to the Asian-Pacific market, and the ability to influence regional economic policies. Our departure might also lead to reduced levels of foreign investment (other than by U.S.) due to security concerns. Loss of this foothold in the Asian- Pacific market would be cataclysmic to the U.S. economy</span></span></span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">. </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">Approximately </span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">25 percent of our annual imports come from this region</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">.14 In addition, </span></span><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the emergence of China as a potential global super power will require that the U.S. remain fully entrenched in this region in order to contain and shape China’s ascendancy into the global marketplace. </span></span>**

**Nuclear war**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Walter <span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Mead</span></span>, Senior Fellow-Council on Foreign Relations, 2/4/<span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">9</span></span> (<span class="BoldUnderline">[[http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2]]</span>)</span>**


<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;">History may suggest that financial crises actually help capitalist great powers maintain their leads--but it has other, less reassuring messages as well. <span style="background-color: silver;">If financial crises have been a normal part of life during the 300-year rise</span> of the liberal capitalist system under the Anglophone powers, <span style="background-color: silver;">so has war</span>. The wars of the League of Augsburg and the Spanish Succession; the Seven Years War; the American Revolution; the Napoleonic Wars; the two World Wars; the cold war: The list of wars is almost as long as the list of financial crises. </span>
<span style="background-color: silver;">Bad economic times</span> **can** <span style="background-color: silver;">breed wars</span>**<span style="background-color: silver;">. Europe was</span> a pretty <span style="background-color: silver;">peaceful</span> place <span style="background-color: silver;">in</span> 19<span style="background-color: silver;">28</span>, <span style="background-color: silver;">but the Depression</span> poisoned German public opinion and <span style="background-color: silver;">helped bring</span> Adolf <span style="background-color: silver;">Hitler to power. </span>**If the current <span style="background-color: silver;">crisis turns into a depression</span>**<span style="background-color: silver;">, </span>**what rough beasts might **start** <span style="background-color: silver;">slouch</span>**ing** <span style="background-color: silver;">toward Moscow</span>, Karachi, <span style="background-color: silver;">Beijing, or New Delhi</span> **to be born**? **The United States may not, yet, decline, but,** <span style="background-color: silver;">if we can't get the </span>world <span style="background-color: silver;">economy back on track, we may</span> **still** <span style="background-color: silver;">have to fight .</span>





===[[#Negative-Disads-SoKo Deterrence]]SoKo Deterrence=== 
====[[#Negative-Disads-SoKo Deterrence-1NC]]1NC==== 
Withdrawal causes regional instability – this guarantees allied prolif, northern aggression, cooperation breakdowns, arms races, miscalc and pre-emption – no other checks on escalation


**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Richardson, 6</span></span></span>**<span style="font-weight: normal;"> (Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9-2006, <span class="BoldUnderline">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html]]</span>) </span>

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Rumors of a substantial drawdown or complete withdrawal of US Forces Korea (USFK) have been around for decades. After years of a South Korean administration generally hostile to US regional objectives and priorities, perhaps the rumors are finally becoming a reality. That would be a tragedy for both sides. If the US were to leave Korea, how would US influence in the region be altered? How would Korea's relationships with China and Japan change? What about the strengthening US-Japan alliance? What if North Korea collapsed? These questions have largely escaped critical consideration in the current debate. Despite President Roh Moo-hyun's stunning obliviousness to political and security realities, South Korea would be <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">particularly vulnerable without USFK</span>, or even with a token force left in place. For its part, the US cannot realistically expect to maintain or improve its ability to exert regional influence by leaving Korea. Like US Forces Japan (USFJ), America's Korean contingent helps prevent conflict by <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">acting as a strong deterrent</span> for any nation that might consider military actions or threats, at the same time moderating the responses of the host nation in tense situations. Obviously, the original purpose of the US-South Korea alliance was to counter the North Korean threat. However, as that threat has waned, a more important, diplomatically incorrect mission has evolved in addition to deterring North Korea: ensuring stability among China, Japan and Korea. The North Korean threat is nonetheless the reason for the majority of South Korea's defenses, even if Seoul won't say so in defense white papers. No conventional military calculus suggests the possibility of a North Korean victory in a second Korean War, but <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">a weaker South Korean military could cause Pyongyang to miscalculate</span>. South Korea's defenses must remain strong. </span>**Regional tensions, but stability **Even with USFK in Korea, issues from the region's long and often confrontational history cause tensions to flare. Chinese claims that Koguryo, an ancient ethnically Korean kingdom whose territories extended into present-day China, was in fact a Chinese kingdom have raised Korean hackles on several occasions. The move is viewed as the possible groundwork for justifying a Chinese invasion of the northern half of the peninsula, perhaps to "help" a North Korea on the verge of implosion, or after collapse. China's plans to register Mount Baekdu (Changbai in Chinese) as a Chinese historical site with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Geopark list was also viewed as a possible prelude to claiming North Korean territory. The mountain, sacred to both sides, straddles the border. A 1962 agreement between the two countries split ownership of the mountain. This view is bolstered by the fact that China prefers to retain border buffer zones and would not relish having a reunified Korea, potentially with US forces just across the Yalu River. South Korea could not prevent China from sending troops into North Korea, and the US likely would not risk war with China over North Korea. Japan's colonial domination of Korea from 1910 to 1945 has left a deep and bitter resentment in both Koreas that is apt to provoke emotional and drastic responses. One high-profile manifestation of this is the decades-long dispute over the ownership of some relatively insignificant islets in the waters between the peninsula and the archipelago, the Liancourt Rocks. Known as Dokdo in Korea and Takeshima in Japan, South Korea has stationed a Coast Guard contingent on the island since 1954 to enforce its claim. Both nations claim the area as a part of their exclusive economic zones (EEZs). In 2005 South Korea scrambled fighters to intercept a civilian Japanese Cessna aircraft nearing Dokdo airspace. When Japan announced plans to conduct a hydrographic survey of the area, South Korea made vague threats alluding to possible military action against the research vessels. Japan backed down. Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's numerous visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, dedicated to Japan's war dead including some convicted war criminals, have raised diplomatic tensions with both South Korea and China on several occasions, including a temporary recall of South Korea's ambassador in Japan.** Ripe for an arms race **South Korea wants to be the "hub" of something in East Asia, and it may finally have its chance, thanks to the Roh administration. The current US-South Korea situation is a case of "be careful of what you ask for because you might get it". Even so, the psychological impact on South Korea of a significant USFK departure likely would not be immediate but should not be underestimated. A massive reduction of US troop levels and capabilities could have the same effect as a complete withdrawal on Seoul's planning processes. It might begin with regretful concern, but could quickly become panic. At this point it should be noted that even if the USFK withdraws from Korea, some sort of collaborative security agreement will remain in place. However, South Korea's perception of America's commitment to security on the peninsula is the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">decisive factor in how it will react to real and perceived threats</span>. What are now relatively minor disagreements with Japan and China would take on a more serious dimension. Without USFK, South Korea would need to vastly increase its defense budget to make up for functions long taken for granted. With American forces on its soil as a safety net, South Korea didn't have to be overly concerned with being attacked or invaded. Many Koreans would perceive that era over. Another factor is the closer US-Japan security partnership, which causes both China and South Korea concern. Some in the South Korean defense sector are undoubtedly jealous of the relationship Japan enjoys with the US. Japan would also need to take into consideration a South Korea without the moderating influence of USFK, although the role of USFJ in Japan would reduce much concern. In such an environment it's not unthinkable that a few minor skirmishes could occur, between South Korean and Japanese navel vessels in the vicinity of Dokdo, for example. This would be the slow start of a regional arms race, with Korea and Japan joining China's ongoing <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">buildup. </span></span>**A reunified Korea could go nuclear **North Korea is the wildcard. If in the next few years reunification were to occur - through a North Korean collapse, the death of Kim Jong-il, or a possible but unlikely mutual agreement - South Korea would suddenly find itself straddled with the enormous cost of integrating North Korea. These costs would dwarf the already massive increase South Korea would have been undertaking in defense spending, something it would clearly be unprepared and unable to accomplish while maintaining its defense investment. A Korea faced with an economic dilemma of such magnitude would find maintaining its conventional military forces at current levels impossible. At the same time, it would feel more vulnerable than ever, even with US security assurances. For a nation paranoid about the possibility of outside influence or military intervention, strapped for cash, and obsessed about its position in the international hierarchy, the obvious route might be to either incorporate North Korean nuclear devices (if they actually exist), or build their own, something South Korean technicians could easily accomplish. North Korea, after all, has set the example for economically challenged nations looking for the ultimate in deterrence. One might argue that clear and firm US security guarantees for a reunified Korea would be able to dissuade any government from choosing the nuclear option. If making decisions based purely on logic the answer would be probably yes. Unfortunately, the recent Korean leadership has established a record of being motivated more by emotional and nationalistic factors than logical or realistic ones. Antics over Dokdo and the Yasukuni Shrine and alienating the US serve as examples. But the continuation of the "Sunshine Policy" tops those. Instead of admitting they've been sold a dead horse, the Roh administration continued riding the rotting and bloated beast known as the Sunshine Policy, until all that are left today are a pile of bones, a bit of dried skin, and a few tufts of dirty hair. Roh, however, is still in the saddle, if not as firmly after North Korea's recent missile tests. Japan must then consider its options in countering an openly nuclear, reunified Korea without USFK. Already building momentum to change its constitution to clarify its military, it's not inconceivable that Japan would ultimately consider going nuclear to deter Korea. As in South Korea, there is no technological barrier preventing Japan from building nuclear weapons. While the details of the race and escalation of tensions can vary in any number of ways and are not inevitable, that an arms race would occur is probable. Only the perception of threat and vulnerability need be present for this to occur. <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">East Asia could become a nuclear powder keg ready to explode</span> over something as childish as the Dokdo/Takeshima dispute between Korea and Japan, a Diaoyu/Senkakus dispute between China and Japan, or the Koguryo dispute between Korea and China.** The arms race need not occur **One could argue that the US would be able to step in and moderate things before such an escalation could occur. Considering the recent US record on influencing either North or South Korea, it is perhaps unwise to count on it being able to do so at some crucial point in the future. One could also argue that the US need not be involved in a future East Asian war. Like assuming there is no need for USFK since North Korea is considered less of a threat to Seoul, that is wishful thinking. The US has too many political and diplomatic ties, aside from alliance obligations, to ignore such a war. For American policymakers, the notion that a withdrawal is a deserved payback for the rampant anti-Americanism in South Korea, or that the few billion we spend on defense there is a catastrophic waste, need to be discarded. The potential cost of a war would be far greater in both American lives and in dollars, the benefits of continued peace immeasurable. <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">Vastly reducing or withdrawing USFK can only harm US security, it cannot help it</span>. USFK has <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">helped maintain peace and allowed the US to project influence in the region</span> for the past six decades; removing that presence would be foolish and difficult to replicate once done. It is also important to keep in mind that the next presidential election will likely result in a less anti-American administration. South Korean policymakers and citizens alike need to come to terms with the fact that Korea will probably never be a powerful nation, but because of its location it will always be important in the geopolitical sense. Because of this, Korea can never take the middle ground or play a "balancing" role; Korea must choose sides. Finally, the reality that both American and South Korean policymakers need to come to terms with is that USFK deterring a second North Korean invasion has become a secondary mission to maintaining regional stability, even in a reunified Korea.**

**Also causes northern agression**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Huessy, 3</span></span> – Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states (8/13/2003, Peter, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560]]) </span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">It may be wishful thinking, but I believe China has the ability to help shape the future in the region in a positive way. For the U.S. to withdraw from the ROK, as proposed by Carpenter, might very well initiate not only another Korean War but also <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">possibly another World War.</span></span> When I lived in Seoul and attended Yonsei University in 1969-70, my Korean father and Yonsei professor, Hahm Pyong Choon, later to become Ambassador to the United States and national security adviser to the President of the Republic of Korea, told me there were always those who sought to purchase liberty and freedom on the cheap. At an embassy reception in Washington, he reminded me what he had told me in class: “Those on the left think you are imperialists; those on the right do not want to spend the money”. In 1985, the communists planted bombs in Burma where the ROK cabinet was meeting. Professor Hahm was killed by the very same North Korean communists whom wish to see the withdrawal of American forces from the region. To save a few dollars, however unintentionally, we might end up the North Korean army in downtown Seoul. Certainly, armed with nuclear weapons<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, the North will be difficult at best to deter from such an attack.</span></span> To the people of the Republic of Korea: America will not leave, we will not run, we will not forget the extraordinary sacrifices we both have made to secure the freedom of your country and ours. This is the basis for the Bush Administration’s strategy, and with that sufficient reason it should be supported. </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">The plan ends the American hierarchy in Asia— collapses US global leadership and triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war</span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Goh, 8</span></span> – Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database) </span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">The centrality of these mutual processes of assurance and deference means that the stability of a hierarchical order is fundamentally related to a collective sense of certainty about the leadership and order of the hierarchy. This certainty is rooted in a combination of material calculations – smaller states' assurance that the expected costs of the dominant state conquering them would be higher than the benefits – and ideational convictions – the sense of legitimacy, derived from shared values and norms that accompanies the super-ordinate state's authority in the social order. The empirical analysis in the next section shows that regional stability in East Asia in the post-Second World War years can be correlated to the degree of collective certainty about the US-led regional hierarchy. East Asian stability and instability has been <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">determined by U.S. assurances,</span> self-confidence, and commitment to maintaining its primary position in the regional hierarchy; the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">perceptions and confidence</span> of regional states about US commitment; and the reactions of subordinate states in the region to the varied challengers to the regional hierarchical order. 4. Hierarchy and the East Asian security order Currently, the regional hierarchy in East Asia is still dominated by the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates. Since the 1970s, China has increasingly claimed the position of second-ranked great power, a claim that is today legitimized by the hierarchical deference shown by smaller subordinate powers such as South Korea and Southeast Asia. Japan and South Korea can, by virtue of their alliance with the United States, be seen to occupy positions in a third layer of regional major powers, while India is ranked next on the strength of its new strategic relationship with Washington. North Korea sits outside the hierarchic order but affects it due to its military prowess and nuclear weapons capability. Apart from making greater sense of recent history, conceiving of the US' role in East Asia as the dominant state in the regional hierarchy helps to clarify three critical puzzles in the contemporary international and East Asian security landscape. First, it contributes to explaining the lack of sustained challenges to American global preponderance after the end of the Cold War. Three of the key potential global challengers to US unipolarity originate in Asia (China, India, and Japan), and their support for or acquiescence to, US dominance have helped to <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">stabilize its global leadership.</span> Through its dominance of the Asian regional hierarchy, the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates has been able to neutralize the potential threats to its position from Japan via an alliance, from India by gradually identifying and pursuing mutual commercial and strategic interests, and from China by <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">encircling and deterring it with allied and friendly states</span> that support American preponderance. Secondly, recognizing US hierarchical preponderance further explains contemporary under-balancing in Asia, both against a rising China, and against incumbent American power. I have argued that one defining characteristic of a hierarchical system is voluntary subordination of lesser states to the dominant state, and that this goes beyond rationalistic bandwagoning because it is manifested in a social contract that comprises the related processes of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference. Critically, successful and sustainable hierarchical assurance and deference helps to explain why Japan is not yet a ‘normal’ country. Japan has experienced significant impetus to revise and expand the remit of its security forces in the last 15 years. Yet, these pressures continue to be insufficient to prompt a wholesale revision of its constitution and its remilitarization. The reason is that the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates extends its security umbrella over Japan through their alliance, which has led Tokyo not only to perceive no threat from US dominance, but has in fact helped to forge a security community between them (Nau, 2003). Adjustments in burden sharing in this alliance since the 1990s have arisen not from greater independent Japanese strategic activism, but rather from <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">periods of strategic uncertainty</span> and crises for Japan when it appeared that American hierarchical assurance, along with US' position at the top of the regional hierarchy, was in question. Thus, the Japanese priority in taking on more responsibility for regional security has been to improve its ability to facilitate the US' central position, rather than to challenge it.13 In the face of the security threats from North Korea and China, Tokyo's continued reliance on the security pact with the United States is rational. While there remains debate about Japan's re-militarization and the growing clout of nationalist ‘hawks’ in Tokyo, for regional and domestic political reasons, a sustained ‘normalization’ process cannot take place outside of the restraining framework of the United States–Japan alliance (Samuels, 2007; Pyle, 2007). Abandoning the alliance will entail Japan making a conscience choice not only to remove itself from the US-led hierarchy, but also to challenge the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates dominance directly. The United States–ROK alliance may be understood in a similar way, although South Korea faces different sets of constraints because of its strategic priorities related to North Korea. As J.J. Suh argues, in spite of diminishing North Korean capabilities, which render the US security umbrella less critical, the alliance endures because of mutual identification – in South Korea, the image of the US as ‘the only conceivable protector against aggression from the North,’ and in the United States, an image of itself as protector of an allied nation now vulnerable to an ‘evil’ state suspected of transferring weapons of mass destruction to terrorist networks (Suh, 2004). Kang, in contrast, emphasizes how South Korea has become less enthusiastic about its ties with the United States – as indicated by domestic protests and the rejection of TMD – and points out that Seoul is not arming against a potential land invasion from China but rather maritime threats (Kang, 2003, pp.79–80). These observations are valid, but they can be explained by hierarchical deference toward the United States, rather than China. The ROK's military orientation reflects its identification with and dependence on the United States and its adoption of US' strategic aims. In spite of its primary concern with the North Korean threat, Seoul's formal strategic orientation is toward maritime threats, in line with Washington's regional strategy. Furthermore, recent South Korean Defense White Papers habitually cited a remilitarized Japan as a key threat. The best means of coping with such a threat would be continued reliance on the US security umbrella and on Washington's ability to restrain Japanese remilitarization (Eberstadt et al., 2007). Thus, while the United States–ROK bilateral relationship is not always easy, its durability is based on South Korea's fundamental acceptance of the United States as the region's primary state and reliance on it to defend and keep regional order. It also does not rule out Seoul and other US allies conducting business and engaging diplomatically with China. India has increasingly adopted a similar strategy vis-à-vis China in recent years. Given its history of territorial and political disputes with China and its contemporary economic resurgence, India is seen as the key potential power balancer to a growing China. Yet, India has sought to negotiate settlements about border disputes with China, and has moved significantly toward developing closer strategic relations with the United States. Apart from invigorated defense cooperation in the form of military exchange programs and joint exercises, the key breakthrough was the agreement signed in July 2005 which facilitates renewed bilateral civilian nuclear cooperation (Mohan, 2007). Once again, this is a key regional power that could have balanced more directly and independently against China, but has rather chosen to align itself or bandwagon with the primary power, the United States, partly because of significant bilateral gains, but fundamentally in order to support the latter's regional order-managing function. Recognizing a regional hierarchy and seeing that the lower layers of this hierarchy have become more active since the mid-1970s also allows us to understand why there has been no outright balancing of China by regional states since the 1990s. On the one hand, the US position at the top of the hierarchy has been revived since the mid-1990s, meaning that deterrence against potential Chinese aggression is reliable and in place.14 On the other hand, the aim of regional states is to try to consolidate China's inclusion in the regional hierarchy at the level below that of the United States, not to keep it down or to exclude it. East Asian states recognize that they cannot, without great cost to themselves, contain Chinese growth. But they hope to socialize China by enmeshing it in peaceful regional norms and economic and security institutions. They also know that they can also help to ensure that the capabilities gap between China and the United States remains wide enough to deter a power transition. Because this strategy requires persuading China about the appropriateness of its position in the hierarchy and of the legitimacy of the US position, all East Asian states engage significantly with China, with the small Southeast Asian states refusing openly to ‘choose sides’ between the United States and China. Yet, hierarchical deference continues to explain why regional institutions such as the ASEAN Regional Forum, ASEAN + 3, and East Asian Summit have made limited progress. While the United State has made room for regional multilateral institutions after the end of the Cold War, its hierarchical preponderance also constitutes the regional order to the extent that it cannot comfortably be excluded from any substantive strategic developments. On the part of some lesser states (particularly Japan and Singapore), hierarchical deference is manifested in inclusionary impulses (or at least impulses not to exclude the United States or US proxies) in regional institutions, such as the East Asia Summit in December 2005. Disagreement on this issue with others, including China and Malaysia, has stymied potential progress in these regional institutions (Malik, 2006). Finally, conceiving of a US-led East Asian hierarchy amplifies our understanding of how and why the United States–China relationship is now the key to regional order. The vital nature of the Sino-American relationship stems from these two states' structural positions. As discussed earlier, China is the primary second-tier power in the regional hierarchy. However, as Chinese power grows and Chinese activism spreads beyond Asia, the United States is less and less able to see China as merely a regional power – witness the growing concerns about Chinese investment and aid in certain African countries. This causes a disjuncture between US global interests and US regional interests. Regional attempts to engage and socialize China are aimed at mediating its intentions. This process, however, cannot stem Chinese growth, which forms the material basis of US threat perceptions. Apprehensions about the growth of China's power culminates in US fears about the region being ‘lost’ to China, echoing Cold War concerns that transcribed regional defeats into systemic setbacks.15 On the other hand, the US security strategy post-Cold War and post-9/11 have regional manifestations that disadvantage China. The strengthening of US alliances with Japan and Australia; and the deployment of US troops to Central, South, and Southeast Asia all cause China to fear a consolidation of US global hegemony that will first threaten Chinese national security in the regional context and then stymie China's global reach. Thus, the key determinants of the East Asian security order relate to two core questions: (i) Can the US be persuaded that China can act as a reliable ‘regional stakeholder’ that will help to buttress regional stability and US global security aims;16 and (ii) can China be convinced that the United States has neither territorial ambitions in Asia nor the desire to encircle China, but will help to promote Chinese development and stability as part of its global security strategy? (Wang, 2005). But, these questions cannot be asked in the abstract, outside the context of negotiation about their relative positions in the regional and global hierarchies. One urgent question for further investigation is how the process of assurance and deference operate at the topmost levels of a hierarchy? When we have two great powers of unequal strength but contesting claims and a closing capabilities gap in the same regional hierarchy, how much scope for negotiation is there, before a reversion to balancing dynamics? This is the main structural dilemma: <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">as long as the United States does not give up its primary position in the Asian regional hierarchy, China is very unlikely to act in a way that will provide comforting answers to the two questions</span></span>. Yet, the East Asian regional order has been and still is constituted by US hegemony, and to change that could be extremely disruptive and may lead to regional actors acting in highly destabilizing <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">ways. Rapid Japanese remilitarization, armed conflict across the Taiwan Straits, Indian nuclear brinksmanship directed toward Pakistan, or a highly destabilized Korean peninsula are all illustrative of potential regional disruptions.</span></span> 5. Conclusion To construct a coherent account of East Asia's evolving security order, I have suggested that the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates is the central force in constituting regional stability and order. The major patterns of equilibrium and turbulence in the region since 1945 can be explained by the relative stability of the US position at the top of the regional hierarchy, with periods of greatest insecurity being correlated with greatest uncertainty over the American commitment to managing regional order. Furthermore, relationships of hierarchical assurance and hierarchical deference explain the unusual character of regional order in the post-Cold War era. However, the greatest contemporary challenge to East Asian order is the potential conflict between China and the United States over rank ordering in the regional hierarchy, a contest made more potent because of the inter-twining of regional and global security concerns. Ultimately, though, investigating such questions of positionality requires conceptual lenses that go beyond basic material factors because it entails social and normative questions. How can China be brought more into a leadership position, while being persuaded to buy into shared strategic interests and constrain its own in ways that its vision of regional and global security may eventually be reconciled with that of the United States and other regional players? How can Washington be persuaded that its central position in the hierarchy must be ultimately shared in ways yet to be determined? The future of the East Asian security order is tightly bound up with the durability of the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates' global leadership and regional domination. At the regional level, the main scenarios of disruption are an outright Chinese challenge to US leadership, or the defection of key US allies, particularly Japan. Recent history suggests, and the preceding analysis has shown, that challenges to or defections from US leadership will come at junctures where it <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">appears that the US commitment to the region is in doubt,</span> which in turn destabilizes the hierarchical order. At the global level, American geopolitical over-extension will be the key cause of change. This is the one factor that could lead to both greater regional and global turbulence, if only by the attendant strategic uncertainly triggering off regional challenges or defections. However, it is notoriously difficult to gauge thresholds of over-extension. More positively, East Asia is a region that has adjusted to previous periods of uncertainty about US primacy. Arguably, the regional consensus over the United States as primary state in a system of benign hierarchy could accommodate a shifting of the strategic burden to US allies like Japan and Australia as a means of systemic preservation. The alternatives that could surface as a result of not doing so would appear to be much worse. </span>**

**Finally, US global influence is key to check great power nuclear conflict**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Gray, 5</span></span> – Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” [[http://www.carlisle.army/|http://www.carlisle.army]]. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm) </span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">6. Interstate War, Down but Far from Out Logically, the reverse side of the coin which proclaims a trend favoring political violence internal to states is the claim that interstate warfare is becoming, or has become, a historical curiosity. Steven Metz and Raymond Millen assure us that “most armed conflicts in coming decades are likely to be internal ones.”21 That is probably a safe prediction, though one might choose to be troubled by their prudent hedging with the qualifier “most.” Their plausible claim would look a little different in hindsight were it to prove true except <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">for a mere one or two interstate nuclear conflicts, say between</span></span> India and Pakistan, or North Korea and the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates and its allies. The same authors also offer the comforting judgment that “decisive war between major states is rapidly moving toward history’s dustbin.”22 It is an attractive claim; it is a shame that it is wrong. War, let alone “decisive war,” between major states currently is enjoying an off-season for one main reason: So extreme is the imbalance of military power in favor of the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates that potential rivals rule out policies that might lead to hostilities with the superpower. It is fashionable to argue that major interstate war is yesterday’s problem—recall that the yesterday in question is barely 15 years in the past—because now there is nothing to fight about and nothing to be gained by armed conflict. Would that those points were true; unfortunately they are not. The menace of major, if not necessarily decisive<span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, interstate war will return to frighten us when great-power rivals feel able to challenge American hegemony.</span></span> If you read Thucydides, or Donald Kagan, you will be reminded of the deadly and eternal influence of the triad of motives for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23 </span>**



====[[#Negative-Disads-SoKo Deterrence-Block]]Block==== 
=====[[#Negative-Disads-SoKo Deterrence-Block-Turns Regionalism]]Turns Regionalism===== 
US troops encourage South Korean diplomatic independence – Aff’s argument is out of context


**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Cha, 3</span></span> (Victor, associate professor of government and D. S. Song-Korea Foundation Endowed Chair at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University, “Focus on the Future, Not the North,” Washington Quarterly 26:1) </span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Second, the core countries have strong reasons themselves to accept bases rather than merely access arrangements with the United States. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Alliances offer allies ways to dampen U.S. tendencies toward unilateralism</span></span>.26 <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In the Korean case, an alliance</span></span> with two independent militaries <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">would enable Seoul to say "no" to the United States in ways that they could not before.</span></span> In military terms, this situation might not be ideal, particularly given the history of this alliance, but <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">politically this potential could be the ultimate symbol of a new, more equal, and long-term alliance relationship</span></span>. Some European allies did not allow the United States to fly over their air space during attacks on Libya in 1986. U.S. allies also did not allow U.S. planes to refuel on their territories while carrying supplies to Israel during the 1973 Mideast war.27 <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Under certain circumstances, the ROK might refuse to allow the United States liberties with the bases. Bases, rather than places, actually give Korea more leverage. With a relationship based merely on access arrangements, saying "no" could mean the end of that relationship</span></span>, as happened with New Zealand. <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">A relationship undergirded by a basing and forward presence, however, is much more difficult to abrogate.</span></span></span>**


=====[[#Negative-Disads-SoKo Deterrence-Block-Turns China]]<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Turns China</span>===== 
Japanese nuclearization leads to renewed Chinese Nationalism, end of its no-first-use policy and nuclear war with the U.S.


**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">NTI, 6</span></span> (10/18/06, Nuclear Threat Initiative, Threat Reduction Agency created by CNN founder Ted Turner and former U.S. Senator Sam Nunn with security representatives from 10 different nations,“Nuclear Conflict in the 21st Century: Reviewing the Chinese Nuclear Threat,” [[http://www.nti.org/e_research/e3_80.html]]) </span>**

**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">China's Asian Rival: A Resurgent Japan The depth of Chinese nationalist sentiment towards Taiwan has a parallel, though not an exact one, in anti-Japanese feeling. Like the Taiwan issue, these feelings run both deep and broad in Chinese society. The memory of Japan's invasion during the Second World War is particularly poignant; one 1996 survey reported that the word "Japan" made 81.3% of Chinese youth think most easily of the "war of resistance against Japanese aggression."[44</span>] The strength of anti-Japanese sentiment suggests that the Chinese government may take an aggressive stance on major increases in Japan's military capability in general, and the acquisition of nuclear weapons <span style="font-size: 6pt;">in particular. Anti-Japanese nationalism has been described as "the stomach-burning passion of Chinese patriots."[45] In April 2005, large protests erupted in many Chinese cities after United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan urged a plan intended to give Japan a permanent seat on the Security Council.[46] An online petition that allegedly garnered 42 million signatures in opposition to a permanent Security Council seat for Japan[47] suggests the popular resonance of these protests. Additional protests were organized in a grassroots, popular campaign largely conducted via the Internet, a feat accomplished because of the strength of anti-Japanese sentiment.[48] This phenomenon is particularly notable because much of this online protest occurred without direction by the government; an example is Japanpig.com, which simply features a sword piercing the Japanese flag.[49] This hyper-nationalism is at odds with official policy, most particularly with regards to the Diaoyu/Senkaku, a group of islands claimed by both China and Japan in the East China Sea. One internal Chinese government poll suggested that 82% of mainland citizens opposed the government's policy towards Japan and favored a more aggressive one.[50] The gap between popular opinion and elite policy suggests that</span> under current circumstances a hyper-nationalist nexus is unlikely to form between elite and popular interests. However, if Japan pursues a policy of nuclearization, these circumstances may change. It also bodes ill for the cause of moderation in the case of conflict. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Some already regard Japan as a "de facto nuclear weapons state" because it possesses stockpiles of plutonium, the necessary technological base to produce nuclear weapons, and because it possesses advanced space launch technology that could easily be applied to intercontinental ballistic missiles.[51] Furthermore, although Japan has a strong political tradition renouncing nuclear weapons, there are some signs this may be changing. In April 2002, Ichiro Ozawa, the leader of Japan's opposition Liberal Party, warned that "if China gets too inflated, the Japanese people will become hysterical," and claimed it would be easy for Japan to produce nuclear weapons.[52] Although the Chinese Foreign Ministry response to Ozawa's statements was muted,[53] </span>there appears to be some perception that Japan is embarked on a long-term path of aggression towards China. In an article published in the Shanghai Journal of Social Studies, one analyst claimed that "all-out strategic precautions against China have become one of the main contents of Japan's strategy towards China."[54] If such a policy were seen to threaten China with Japanese nuclear weapons capabilities, hyper-nationalist elite and popular interests may converge to advocate an aggressive response. Despite the depth of anti-Japanese sentiment, there is no direct link between a nuclearized Japan and a nuclear conflict with China. Thus the threat of a nuclear-armed Japan is more one of instability. Given the resonance of anti-Japanese feeling, there may be significant potential for a hyper-nationalist nexus to form against Japan than against the United States, including the threatened use of nuclear weapons. Acquisition of nuclear weapons by Japan would <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">probably at a minimum induce Chinese decision makers to reconsider the NFU policy</span></span>, particularly if Japan also acquired a ballistic missile capability. Any such situation would also involve the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates. The Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security obligates the United States to "act to meet the common danger" in the event of an attack on Japanese territory.[55] Chinese analysts, moreover, emphasize strong U.S.-Japan ties,[56] suggesting that were a conflict to develop, all parties expect the involvement of the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates. The implications of any such conflict are enormous, involving as it would <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">three of the world's most powerful militaries,</span></span> all of which, in this scenario, would have a mature or putative nuclear weapons capability. The specter of this kind of confrontation is worth considering as one contemplates the future of Sino-American relations in the nuclear context.</span>**


=====[[#Negative-Disads-SoKo Deterrence-Block-Links]]Links===== 
U.S. military presence is key to deter a number of Asian conflicts – perception of decline will gut U.S. credibility


**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Auslin, 10</span></span>– resident scholar at AEI (Michael, 3/17/10, “U.S.-Japan Relations: Enduring Ties, Recent Developments,” House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and the Global Environment, <span class="BoldUnderline">[[http://www.aei.org/speech/100130]]</span>) </span>**


**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Despite this litany of problems both real and perceived, the U.S.-Japan alliance, and the broader relationship it embodies, remains the keystone of U.S. policy in the Asia-Pacific region. There is little doubt that America and Japan share certain core values that tie us together, including a belief in democracy, the rule of law, and civil and individual rights, among others, which should properly inform and inspire our policies abroad. Moreover, after the cataclysm of World War II, we have worked together to maintain stability in the western Pacific, throughout the Cold War</span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and after. Without the continued Japanese hosting of U.S. forces, our forward-based posture is untenable, particularly</span></span> in a period of growing Chinese military power in which the acquisition of advanced weapons systems indicates increased vulnerability of U.S. forces over time. There are over 35,000 U.S. military personnel in Japan, and another 11,000 afloat as part of the 7th Fleet, while three-quarters of our military facilities are in Okinawa. Maintaining this presence is a full-time job for officials on both sides of the Pacific. Both Washington and Tokyo have revised the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) governing the U.S. military in Japan to respond to local concerns over judicial access to U.S. service members, and domestic pressures to reduce Japan's $4 billion annual Host Nation Support (HNS) are a continuing feature of bilateral discussions. The new Japanese government has indicated its desire to consider further revision of SOFA and HNS, which portends continued, sometimes difficult negotiations between both sides, though I would be surprised by any significant changes in either. It is clear, however, that the presence of U.S. military forces is welcomed by nearly all nations in the Asia-Pacific region <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and sends a signal of American commitment to the region.</span></span> From a historical standpoint, the post-war American presence in the Asia-Pacific has been one of the key enablers of growth and development in that maritime realm. And today, for all its dynamism, the Asia-Pacific remains peppered with territorial disputes and long-standing grievances, with few effective multilateral mechanisms such as exist in Europe for solving interstate conflicts. Our friends and allies in the area are keenly attuned to our continued forward-based posture, <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and </span></span></span>**any indications** that the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates was reducing its presence might <span class="BoldUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">be interpreted by both friends and competitors as a weakening of our long-standing commitment to maintain</span></span> stability in the Pacific. The shape of Asian regional politics will continue to evolve, and while I am skeptical of what can realistically be achieved by proposed U.S.-Japan-China trilateral talks, it seems evident that we must approach our alliance with Japan from a more regionally oriented perspective, taking into account how our alliance affects the plans and perceptions of other nations in the region.

=====[[#Negative-Disads-SoKo Deterrence-Block-Troops Key]]<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Troops Key</span>===== 
Permanently stationing ground troops is key to deterrence – uniquely signals U.S. commitment and boosts credibility of the nuclear umbrella
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="AuthorDate"><span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Payne, et. al, 10</span></span> – Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,”
[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]])
Forward Deployments </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">The forward presence of U.S. military forces has value for deterrence and assurance that is well recognized. Forces routinely deployed on or near the territory of an ally not only, or even primarily, augment the armed strength of that country, but also serve as a concrete and continuing reminder that the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates has a strong interest in its security and will fight in its defense. Permanently stationed ground forces, in particular, seem to have an assurance effect not duplicated by temporary deployments (port calls to show the flag, for example), probably because they are unlikely to be withdrawn overnight and often are positioned where they will be directly engaged by an enemy attack, thus ensuring U.S. involvement in a conflict. The likelihood, if not certainty, that U.S. forces would be engaged in a conflict can lend credibility to an associated nuclear guarantee. If forward deployments include U.S. nuclear weapons, those arms themselves offer a tangible assurance that the ally is covered by the nuclear umbrella.
The United States has deployed general purpose forces in South Korea for more than a half century. From the mid-1950s to the late 1960s, the U.S. troop level in the ROK was 60,000-70,000. During the Vietnam War, in line with his “Guam Doctrine” to make U.S. allies in Asia shoulder more of the defense burden, President Nixon ordered the withdrawal of some 18,000 troops from South Korea, reducing the total there to 43,000. In the 1976 presidential campaign, Jimmy Carter pledged to pull out all U.S. ground forces from South Korea, but as president removed only a token number (roughly 3,000 troops). The Carter cut subsequently was reversed by President Reagan to bolster the U.S. commitment to the ROK. As part of the post-Cold War retraction of American forces from overseas deployments, President George H.W. Bush ordered the troop level in South Korea reduced to 36,000 and then suspended further withdrawals in light of concern about the North Korean nuclear weapons program. The U.S. force on the peninsula increased slightly and stabilized at somewhat more than 37,000 during the Clinton administration. Between 2004 and 2006, as a result of the Global Posture Review conducted by the George W. Bush administration, the number of troops dropped to 28,500, where it remains today.54 At this level, South Korea is the country with the third largest peacetime deployment of American troops, behind only Germany (54,000) and Japan (33,000).55 One South Korean observer cites this ranking as an indication of the high priority the <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">U</span>nited <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">S</span>tates assigns to the defense of the ROK.56 According to an opinion survey conducted in early 2008, most South Koreans (70 percent) see the overall U.S. military presence in East Asia as contributing to regional stability.57</span>

===[[#Negative-Disads-Russia Relations]]<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Russia Relations </span>=== 
====[[#Negative-Disads-Russia Relations-1NC]]1NC==== 
The plan would devastate US- Russia relations- anti- narcotic efforts are a top priority for Russia
Stack 6/11 (Graham, “Russia puts anti-narcotics in Afghanistan at top of international agenda” on 6/11/10 and [[http://russianow.washingtonpost.com/2010/06/russia-puts-anti-narcotics-in-afghanistan-at-top-of-international-agenda.php]])
A series of vigorous statements by top Russian officials in recent days, orchestrated by Ivanov, including a high-level international conference on the issue in Moscow, show Russia placing anti-narcotics in Afghanistan on an equal footing with the worldwide war on terrorism. "We consider drug addiction one of the biggest and most serious threats to our country's development and our people's health," Russian President Dmitry Medvedev told an international Moscow conference organized by Ivanov's anti-narcotics agency, FSKN, on June 9. "Fundamentally, before our eyes, a new global agenda is unfolding--the narco-threat as a challenge to humanity and one of the strongest factors in global instability," Ivanov later said at the same conference. "The priority here is the liquidation of Afghan narcotic production." With similar statements calling for crop eradication in Afghanistan sounding from powerful prime minister and ex-president Vladimir Putin in Istanbul on June 9, deputy prime minister Sergei Ivanov in Singapore on June 7, as well as foreign minister Sergei Lavrov at the Moscow conference, Russia is putting all its big hitters into play in the call for international forces in Afghanistan to directly engage opium farmers and drug producers. The reason is clear: Russia suffers most from Afghanistan's narcotics exports. Russia is the world's largest consumer of Afghan heroin, and official statistics point to a staggering 30-40,000 deaths each year as a result of overdoses, with an estimated total of 2.5 million users, according to statistics compiled by Ivanov's FSKN. Even more worrisome is that Russia has a spiraling HIV problem, mostly resulting from addicts sharing needles, with an estimated 1 million HIV positive. "What is new here is that Russian leaders, including President Medvedev, for the first time are saying that international drug trafficking, and what they call 'narco-aggression,' is a greater threat to Russia than international terrorism," Alexander Rahr, from the thinktank German Council on Foreign Relations, commented. "But Russia needs to do more in terms of domestic combating of drug addiction to make its international concerns more credible."

U.S. Withdrawal from Afghanistan kills US-Russian relations
Gordon M Hahn 5/21/2009 senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California; senior researcher, Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (CETIS), Akribis Group, California; and analyst/consultant. “U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism"[[http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf%20p.%208-9|http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9]]

However, there is some space between U.S. and Russian interests if it comes to a NATO defeat and withdrawal from Afghanistan. In lieu of a complete U.S. victory over the Taliban and other jihadists in Afghanistan as well as the cap ture of al Qaeda’s leadership, most important Osama bin Laden, Russia’s inter ests would be served more by the West’s long-term engagement of jihadists in Afghanistan and Pakistan than by defeat and withdrawal, thus containing the threat to South Asia and bog down the United States, NATO, al Qaeda, and jihadists in the region, diverting their attention and resources from deployment elsewhere. If there were a NATO withdrawal, Russia and/or others might be tempted to enhance the already growing military component of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO; members include Russia, China, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan; observer-members are Pakistan, India, Iran, and Mongolia) and employ it to defeat or contain jihadism in Central Asia.5 Such actions would be more costly for Moscow, and many Russians would blame the regional crisis on American hubris or even conspiracies, further damaging U.S.-Russian relations. A SCO role would involve China even more deeply in the region, something that is probably neither in Russia’s nor America’s interests. In this event, Moscow likely would promote a more virulently anti-Western, especially anti-American, and perhaps “Eurasianist” line, proposing an alliance of non-Western civilizations to counter American hegemony. In the long-term, this could compensate Russia’s Muslims for Moscow’s war against foreign Muslims and rally some Islamic states toward SCO, further threaten ing American interests. At present, Moscow supports U.S. efforts in Afghanistan, where the West is doing heavy lifting for the Kremlin. It is imperative that Moscow’s support continues and grows, even if NATO draws back from ground operations to covert and air operations. It is in the American and Russian interest to maxi mize reconstruction, intelligence, security, and, perhaps in the future, limited military forms of cooperation in Afghanistan. Otherwise, as Barnett Rubin and Ahmed Rashid have warned, Afghanistan and Central Asia could be trans formed into yet another region where Russian-American differences lead to competition or conflict (such as the recent five-day war in Georgia), which can only benefit the region’s jihadists.6

US -Russian relations are critical to US hegemony, terrorism, US involvement in conflicts all over the world and prolif
The Nixon Center 3[“Advancing American Interests and the U.S.-Russian Relationship Interim Report” THE COMMISSION ON AMERICA’S NATIONAL INTERESTS AND RUSSIA. The Nixon Center. Sept. 2003.[[http://www.nixoncenter.org/publications/monographs/FR.htm]]]
At the same time, U.S. leaders increasingly recognized the emerging, inter-related threats of terrorism and proliferation. Though policy makers and experts had devoted some attention to these issues earlier, the tragic events of September 11 rapidly crystallized American thinking about these threats and transformed the struggle to contain them into the principal aim of American foreign policy. Notwithstanding its diminished status and curtailed ambition, Russia has considerable influence in its neighborhood and a significant voice elsewhere as well. Moscow can contribute importantly to U.S. interests if it chooses to do so. Accordingly Russia can markedly decrease, or increase, the costs of exercising American leadership both directly (by assisting the United States, or not) and indirectly (by abetting those determined to resist, or not).
For this Commission’s purposes it is American interests, not the U.S.-Russian relationship per se, that are paramount. The relationship should serve U.S. interests—not vice versa. This does not mean that Russian interests are unimportant. Russian cooperation on specific issues will reflect Russian judgment of how these actions affect its interests. Fortunately, Russia’s national interests converge with our own interests much more than they diverge. The real interests Russia and America share—including Russia’s successful integration into the West as a market-oriented democracy—greatly outweigh the interests that divide us. But since short term interests and narrower political advantage can cloud perceptions, U.S. policy must have a more ambitious objective than simply demonstrating to Moscow how its cooperation with the U.S. advances Russian interests. Wise policy will also seek to create significant equities in Russian society and among leading political forces in cooperative action, which provides the context for managing unavoidable differences on other issues.
The proper starting point in thinking about American national interests and Russia—or any other country—is the candid question: why does Russia matter? How can Russia affect vital American interests and how much should the United States care about Russia? Where does it rank in the hierarchy of American national interests?
As the Report of the Commission on American National Interests (2000) concluded, Russia ranks among the few countries whose actions powerfully affect American vital interests. Why?
First, Russia is a very large country linking several strategically important regions. By virtue of its size and location, Russia is a key player in Europe as well as the Middle East and Central, South and East Asia. Accordingly, Moscow can substantially contribute to, or detract from, U.S. efforts to deal with such urgent challenges as North Korea and Iran, as well as important longer term problems like Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition, Russia shares the world’s longest land border with China, an emerging great power that can have a major impact on both U.S. and Russian interests. The bottom line is that notwithstanding its significant loss of power after the end of the Cold War, Moscow’s geopolitical weight still exceeds that of London or Paris. Second, as a result of its Soviet legacy, Russia has relationships with and information about countries that remain comparatively inaccessible to the American government, in the Middle East, Central Asia and elsewhere. Russian intelligence and/or leverage in these areas could significantly aid the United States in its efforts to deal with current, emerging and still unforeseen strategic challenges, including in the war on terrorism.
Third, today and for the foreseeable future Russia’s nuclear arsenal will be capable of inflicting vast damage on the United States. Fortunately, the likelihood of such scenarios has declined dramatically since the Cold War. But today and as far as any eye can see the U.S. will have an enduring vital interest in these weapons not being used against America or our allies.
Fourth, reliable Russian stewardship and control of the largest arsenal of nuclear warheads and stockpile of nuclear materials from which nuclear weapons could be made is essential in combating the threat of “loose nukes.” The United States has a vital interest in effective Russian programs to prevent weapons being stolen by criminals, sold to terrorists and used to kill Americans.
Fifth, Russian stockpiles, technologies and knowledge for creating biological and chemical weapons make cooperation with Moscow very important to U.S. efforts to prevent proliferation of these weapons. Working with Russia may similarly help to prevent states hostile to the United States from obtaining sophisticated conventional weapons systems, such as missiles and submarines. Sixth, as the world’s largest producer and exporter of hydrocarbons (oil and gas), Russia offers America an opportunity to diversify and increase supplies of non-OPEC, non-Mid-Eastern energy.
Seventh, as a veto-wielding permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, Russia can substantially ease, or complicate, American attempts to work through the UN and other international institutions to advance other vital and extremely important U.S. interests. In a world in which many are already concerned about the use of U.S. power, this can have a real impact on America’s success at providing global leadership. More broadly, a close U.S.-Russian relationship can limit other states’ behavior by effectively eliminating Moscow as a potential source of political support.

====[[#Negative-Disads-Russia Relations-2NC Uniqueness]]2NC Uniqueness==== 
Cooperation is at an all time high- we’re cooperating on more levels than ever before
AFP 9/15/10 (“ US, Russian defense chiefs promote deeper ties ”[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5gi9BijkAdKAefw69i8Rhhr25z-rQ]])
WASHINGTON — US Defense Secretary Robert Gates and his Russian counterpart Anatoly Serdyukov vowed to expand military cooperation on Wednesday, in a sign of improving relations between Moscow and Washington.
The high-profile visit carried important symbolism and reflected a much-touted "reset" of relations between the former Cold War foes over the past year, with the two sides forging common ground on the war in Afghanistan, arms control and Iran's nuclear program. Gates and Serdyukov signed two documents designed to deepen military ties, including a memorandum on cooperation -- replacing an outdated 1993 accord -- and a plan to form a defense working group that will meet every year. The memorandum "underscores that defense cooperation is an important element strengthening the wider US-Russian relationship, especially now when our two countries confront many similar security threats and challenges," Gates said at the signing ceremony. Serdyukov said he hoped his visit "will provide a very powerful impetus to the development of the relationship between our nations." President Barack Obama's administration needs Moscow's permission to allow the US military and NATO to move troops and supplies across Russian territory for the war in Afghanistan. The deal has eased the pressure on supply routes through restive areas in Pakistan, and Gates was expected to express appreciation for Russia's assistance, officials said.
The US has also struck deals with countries across Central Asia to allow access to air fields and supply lines for the mission in Afghanistan, where nearly 100,000 US troops are deployed.
The Russian daily Nezavisimaya Gazeta, citing defense ministry sources, said on Wednesday the Kremlin expected Serdyukov to discuss the "division of spheres of influence" in central Asia and the south Caucasus during his visit. Gates and Serdyukov were due to hold three formal meetings as well as a working dinner on a US Navy vessel on the Potomac river, Pentagon press secretary Geoff Morrell said.
With the Pentagon rolling out the red carpet for Serdyukov, analysts said the visit demonstrated the two governments were serious about strengthening ties. "I don't see Russia as a threat," Gates said. "We're partners in some areas and competitors in others. But on important things, we are cooperating," he said.

====[[#Negative-Disads-Russia Relations-Links]]Links==== 
Russia hates withdrawal and has centered its goals around long term U.S. presence in Afghanistan
Katz, ’10 (Mark, Professor of Government and Politics George Mason University, “Understanding Russia’s Approach on Afghanistan, Pakistan” Eurasian.net, June 25, 2010, [[http://www.eurasianet.org/node/61407]])

Back in 2001, in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist tragedy, the United States and its NATO allies established military bases in Central Asia and quickly drove the Taliban from power in Kabul. These developments were unsettling to Russian planners, who worried that Washington was gaining influence in the region at Moscow’s expense.

In recent years, Russian thinking has adjusted to the reality that the United States and its allies could not easily contain the Islamic insurgency in Afghanistan. By 2009, Russian leaders even started to grow concerned that the Obama administration might suddenly withdraw American forces from Afghanistan, thus leaving Russia alone to deal with the threat that a resurgent Taliban would pose to Central Asia and Russia itself. Accordingly, Moscow helped the United States put together the Northern Distribution Network, a re-supply route that facilitates the overland transit of non-lethal goods from Europe to Afghanistan. [For background see EurasiaNet’s archive]. While Moscow now supports the US/NATO position in Afghanistan, the Kremlin nevertheless is striving to differentiate Russia from the West in ways that Moscow hopes will boost its standing in the eyes of President Hamid Karzai’s administration in Kabul. US relations with Karzai have experienced a marked change in recent years. The Bush Administration strongly promoted Karzai, but the Afghan leader’s relations with President Obama have often been tense. Over the same period, Russian policy has sought to emphasize Moscow’s long-term interest in a stable Afghanistan. As Russia’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Andrei Avetisyan, stated in December 2009; “Many of your friends will have to go sometimes because they came from far away to help you. But when they go, we stay—together with your neighbors, we stay. There have been great changes in Russian-Pakistani relations in recent years too. Pakistan had long been a country that Moscow had antagonistic relations with. During the Cold War, sources of tension between the two countries included Pakistan’s close relations with both the United States and China; the Soviet Union’s close relations with Pakistan’s main rival, India; and Pakistan’s support for the Afghan Mujahedeen fighting Soviet forces in Afghanistan. After most outside powers, including the United States and European nations, lost interest in Afghanistan following the Soviet troop withdrawal, Pakistan remained engaged in Afghanistan, eventually becoming the chief sponsor of the Taliban—something that Moscow found threatening. Indeed, Russia supported anti-Taliban forces in northern Afghanistan long before the United States and NATO did after the September 11 terrorist tragedy. More recently, Moscow—along with many others—grew agitated about the continued Taliban presence in Afghanistan. Russian leaders also worried about Pakistan’s seeming inability—or even unwillingness—to defeat Islamic militants. But over the past few years, Russian-Pakistani relations have improved, in part as a reaction to warming Indian-American relations. Another important factor is the fact that Russia has discovered Pakistan to be a lucrative market for arms exports. How long, though, is this friendly Russo-Pakistani relationship likely to last? There is reason to believe that the withdrawal of US/NATO forces from Afghanistan (now tentatively scheduled to begin in mid-2011) could lead to renewed tension between Russia and Pakistan over Afghanistan. Three decades of hostility cannot be easily ignored. During the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan from 1979 to 1989, Pakistan served as the conduit for external assistance to the Mujahedeen fighting against both Soviet forces and the Afghan Marxist regime. During this period, Moscow mainly supported the Uzbeks and Tajiks in the north of the country, while Pakistan mainly supported the Pashtuns in the south. After Soviet forces withdrew in 1989 and the Marxist regime they left behind fell in 1992, it was replaced by a self-proclaimed Islamic regime that was also dominated by northerners. Pakistan backed the predominantly Pashtun Taliban which overthrew this regime in 1996 and overran most of Afghanistan. From the early 1990s until just after 9/11, then, Russia tended to back Uzbek and Tajik forces in the North that resisted the advance of the Taliban. The US-led invasion in Afghanistan beginning in October 2001 sought to overcome Afghanistan’s North-South divide by creating a government that appealed to both. This effort was exemplified by the promotion of Karzai—a Pushtun with strong northern ties—as Afghanistan’s post-Taliban president. In time, though, the Karzai government came to be seen as not only corrupt and ineffective, but as serving the interests of northerners—who were especially prominent in its ranks. This increasingly led many Pashtuns to regard the Taliban as the defenders of Pashtun interests. While Pakistan has cooperated with the United States in Afghanistan to some extent, elements within its government in Islamabad have continued to support the Taliban. Russia, as noted above, has largely backed the Karzai government and the American-led effort to prop it up. The pattern, then, of Russia backing the northerners (Uzbeks and Tajiks) and Pakistan backing the southerners (Pashtuns) that existed both during the 1980’s and 1990’s is continuing today. Thus, a US withdrawal from Afghanistan could be expected to result in Russia and Pakistan both continuing—indeed, probably increasing—their support for their traditional Afghan allies. If this occurs, then the Russian-Pakistani relationship would most likely return to its accustomed mutual antagonism. The implications of this are that after an American departure from Afghanistan, Russia (probably along with India and Iran) can be expected to work to prevent the Pakistani-backed Taliban from reasserting control over all Afghanistan, just as they did in the 1990’s. How successful they can be in achieving this aim, though, may well depend on whether the United States abandons Afghanistan altogether as it did during the 1990s, or whether Washington actively works with Moscow and others to contain the Taliban and its Pakistani supporters.

==[[#Negative-Impact Turns]]Impact Turns== 
===[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Proliferation]]Proliferation=== 
Prolif deters war-South Asia proves.
Sumit Ganguly. Prof. Pol. Sci. @ Indiana University, Fall, ‘8 (International Security, Volume 33, Number 2, p. Project Muse)

As the outcomes of the 1999 and 2001–02 crises show, nuclear deterrence is robust in South Asia. Both crises were contained at levels considerably short of full-scale war. That said, as Paul Kapur has argued, Pakistan's acquisition of a nuclear weapons capability may well have emboldened its leadership, secure in the belief that India had no good options to respond. India, in turn, has been grappling with an effort to forge a new military doctrine and strategy to enable it to respond to Pakistani needling while containing the possibilities of conflict escalation, especially to the nuclear level.78 Whether Indian military planners [End Page 65] can fashion such a calibrated strategy to cope with Pakistani probes remains an open question. This article's analysis of the 1999 and 2001–02 crises does suggest, however, that nuclear deterrence in South Asia is far from parlous, contrary to what the critics have suggested. Three specific forms of evidence can be adduced to argue the case for the strength of nuclear deterrence. First, there is a serious problem of conflation in the arguments of both Hoyt and Kapur. Undeniably, Pakistan's willingness to provoke India has increased commensurate with its steady acquisition of a nuclear arsenal. This period from the late 1980s to the late 1990s, however, also coincided with two parallel developments that equipped Pakistan with the motives, opportunities, and means to meddle in India's internal affairs—particularly in Jammu and Kashmir. The most important change that occurred was the end of the conflict with the Soviet Union, which freed up military resources for use in a new jihad in Kashmir. This jihad, in turn, was made possible by the emergence of an indigenous uprising within the state as a result of Indian political malfeasance.79 Once the jihadis were organized, trained, armed, and unleashed, it is far from clear whether Pakistan could control the behavior and actions of every resulting jihadist organization.80 Consequently, although the number of attacks on India did multiply during the 1990s, it is difficult to establish a firm causal connection between the growth of Pakistani boldness and its gradual acquisition of a full-fledged nuclear weapons capability. Second, India did respond with considerable force once its military planners realized the full scope and extent of the intrusions across the Line of Control. Despite the vigor of this response, India did exhibit restraint. For example, Indian pilots were under strict instructions not to cross the Line of Control in pursuit of their bombing objectives.81 They adhered to these guidelines even though they left them more vulnerable to Pakistani ground fire.82 The Indian military exercised such restraint to avoid provoking Pakistani fears of a wider attack into Pakistan-controlled Kashmir and then into Pakistan itself. Indian restraint was also evident at another level. During the last war in [End Page 66] Kashmir in 1965, within a week of its onset, the Indian Army horizontally escalated with an attack into Pakistani Punjab. In fact, in the Punjab, Indian forces successfully breached the international border and reached the outskirts of the regional capital, Lahore. The Indian military resorted to this strategy under conditions that were not especially propitious for the country. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, India's first prime minister, had died in late 1964. His successor, Lal Bahadur Shastri, was a relatively unknown politician of uncertain stature and standing, and the Indian military was still recovering from the trauma of the 1962 border war with the People's Republic of China.83 Finally, because of its role in the Cold War, the Pakistani military was armed with more sophisticated, U.S.-supplied weaponry, including the F-86 Sabre and the F-104 Starfighter aircraft. India, on the other hand, had few supersonic aircraft in its inventory, barring a small number of Soviet-supplied MiG-21s and the indigenously built HF-24.84 Furthermore, the Indian military remained concerned that China might open a second front along the Himalayan border. Such concerns were not entirely chimerical, because a Sino-Pakistani entente was under way. Despite these limitations, the Indian political leadership responded to Pakistani aggression with vigor and granted the Indian military the necessary authority to expand the scope of the war. In marked contrast to the politico-military context of 1965, in 1999 India had a self-confident (if belligerent) political leadership and a substantially more powerful military apparatus. Moreover, the country had overcome most of its Nehruvian inhibitions about the use of force to resolve disputes.85 Furthermore, unlike in 1965, India had at least two reserve strike corps in the Punjab in a state of military readiness and poised to attack across the border if given the political nod.86 Despite these significant differences and advantages, the Indian political leadership chose to scrupulously limit the scope of the conflict to the Kargil region. As K. Subrahmanyam, a prominent Indian defense analyst and political commentator, wrote in 1993: [End Page 67] The awareness on both sides of a nuclear capability that can enable either country to assemble nuclear weapons at short notice induces mutual caution. This caution is already evident on the part of India. In 1965, when Pakistan carried out its "Operation Gibraltar" and sent in infiltrators, India sent its army across the cease-fire line to destroy the assembly points of the infiltrators. That escalated into a full-scale war. In 1990, when Pakistan once again carried out a massive infiltration of terrorists trained in Pakistan, India tried to deal with the problem on Indian territory and did not send its army into Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.87 Subrahmanyam's argument takes on additional significance in light of the overt acquisition of nuclear weapons by both India and Pakistan. Third, Sagan's assertion about the dominance of the Pakistani military in determining Pakistan's security policies is unquestionably accurate. With the possible exception of the Kargil conflict, however, it is far from clear that the Pakistani military has been the primary force in planning for and precipitating aggressive war against India. The first Kashmir war, without a doubt, had the explicit approval of Pakistan's civilian authorities.88 Similarly, there is ample evidence that the highly ambitious foreign minister, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, goaded President Ayub Khan to undertake the 1965 war.89 Finally, once again Bhutto, as much as the Pakistani military dictator Yahya Khan, was complicit in provoking a war with India in 1971, following the outbreak of a civil war in East Pakistan.90

Prolif linearly decreases the risk of war.
David Karl, PhD in IR from USC, Winter, ’97 (International Security, Vol. 21, No. 3, p. JSTOR)

Optimists have relaxed views of the preventive‑war dangers entailed in situ ations in which a nuclear power confronts a nuclearizing rival. The practical difficulties of ensuring a disarming strike to preclude any possibility of nuclear retaliation make preventive actions a military gamble that states are very unlikely to take. As Waltz explains, "prevention and pre‑emption are difficult games because the costs are so high if the games are not perfectly played. Ultimately, the inhibitions [against such attacks] he in the impossibility of knowing for sure that a disarming strike will totally destroy an opposing force and in the immense destruction even a few warheads can wreak."25 To opti mists, states will have to learn to live with a rival's emerging nuclear armory. Because strategic uncertainty is seen as having a powerful dissuasive effect, optimists usually view the very increase in the numbers of nuclear‑armed states as an additional element of stability. Dagobert Brito and Michael Intrili gator, for instance, argue that uncertainty over the reaction of other nuclear powers will make all hesitant to strike individually 26 As an example, they point to the restraint the superpowers exercised on each other in the 1960s, when first the United States and then the Soviet Union contemplated military action against China's nascent nuclear weapon sites. The net effect of the uncertain reaction of others is that "the probability of deliberate nuclear attack falls to near zero with three, four, or more nuclear nations."27 Similarly, Waltz reasons that even in cases of asymmetric proliferation within conflict dyads, nuclear weapons will prove "poor instruments for blackmail" because a "country that takes the nuclear offensive has to fear an appropriately punishing strike by someone. Far from lowering the expected cost of aggression, a nuclear offense even against a non‑nuclear state raises the possible costs of aggression to incalculable heights because the aggressor cannot be sure of the reaction of other nuclear powers.

Their ‘inherent instability’ arguments are all based on racist misconceptions.
David Karl, PhD in IR from USC, Winter, ’97 (International Security, Vol. 21, No. 3, p. JSTOR)

Second, the contrasts that pessimists have drawn between the logic and behavior patterns in the 11.5.‑Soviet nuclear experience and those of other states, particularly in the Third World, have often been so stark that it seemed hard to acquit them of the ethnocentric bias with which their critics charge them. 18 This is especially true of arguments that the virulent ethnic and relig ious hatreds in Third World regions may not yield to fears of nuclear retali ation, or that leaders of Third World regimes possess personal value structures predisposing them to capricious and illogical acts from which not even threats of nuclear retaliation can dissuade them.

===[[#Negative-Impact Turns-Terrorism]]Terrorism=== 
Terror key to US presence in Central Asia.
Bruno Tertrais, Senior Research Fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research, 12/4/’1
(What are the Strategic and Geopolitical Consequences of the War Against Terrorism?, p. Google)

Finally, I should add the acceleration of another long-term trend, which is the growing US penetration in Central Asia. Until now, this presence was mostly political and economic, with a military dimension, but without permanent military presence. I doubt very much that, having established bridgeheads in Uzbekistan and Afghanistan in particular, the US military will just pack and go home in a few weeks. There are many reasons for the US to stay. One is simply that it is just too good a geostrategic opportunity. Another is that Washington does not want to appear as leaving Afghanistan to its own fate for the second time in two decades. A third is that the US military presence will be justified by a "deterrence" role, to avoid that other countries in the region become sanctuaries for Al-Qaida-like organizations.

That solves nuclear war.
Dr. M. Ehsan Ahrari, Professor of National Security and Strategy of the Joint and Combined Warfighting School at the Armed Forces Staff College, 8/1/’1 (www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/Pubs/display.cfm?pubID=112)

South and Central Asia constitute a part of the world where a well-designed American strategy might help avoid crises or catastrophe. The U.S. military would provide only one component of such a strategy, and a secondary one at that, but has an important role to play through engagement activities and regional confidence-building. Insecurity has led the states of the region to seek weapons of mass destruction, missiles, and conventional arms. It has also led them toward policies which undercut the security of their neighbors. If such activities continue, the result could be increased terrorism, humanitarian disasters, continued low-level conflict and potentially even major regional war or a thermonuclear exchange. A shift away from this pattern could allow the states of the region to become solid economic and political partners for the United States, thus representing a gain for all concerned.

Central Asian bases are key to air power.
Ashley Tellis, South Asian Analyst @ Rand, ’98 ([[http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897%20/MR897.chap3.pdf|http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897 /MR897.chap3.pdf]])
The fourth key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that there will be increasing political constraints on en-route and in-theater access. Problems of basing for en-route and in-theater access will become of concern as the Asian states grow in confidence and capability. For the moment, however, such problems have been held in check because of the continuing threats on the Korean peninsula and recent revitalization of the U.S.-Japanese security treaty. But these developments constitute only a reprieve, not an enduring solution. The availability of the Korean bases after unification is an open question. Even if these and the Japanese bases continue to be available, their use will be increasingly restricted by the host countries for routine training operations and especially for nontraditional out-of-area operations. The recent difficulties caused by the refusal of the Gulf states to permit U.S. air operations against Saddam Hussein will become the norm in the Asia-Pacific region as well. There are already some indicators to this effect. For example, constitutional and legal restraints in the form of Article 9 could prevent Japan from providing access, logistical support, and reinforcements in the context of crises in Asia. There is also relatively weak political support for all but the most narrow range of contingencies, as became evident in Japanese, Korean, and Southeast Asian reluctance to support U.S. gunboat diplomacy during the recent (1995–1996) China-Taiwan face-off. Even the Southeast states, which benefit most from U.S. presence and deterrent capabilities in the region, were conspicuously silent—and in some cases even undercut American efforts at restraining Chinese intimidation of Taiwan. Besides these growing political constraints, the fact remains that in some feasible contingencies the U.S. Air Force will have little or no access whatsoever to some regions in Asia. The absence of air bases in Southeast Asia and the northern Indian Ocean, for example, could threaten the execution of contingency plans involving either South Asia or Myanmar. The vast distances in the Asia-Pacific region could come to haunt Air Force operations, because existing facilities at Diego Garcia and in the Persian Gulf are too far away for any but the most minimal operations. Increasing political constrictions coupled with the sparse number of operating facilities available imply that even such potentially innovative U.S. Air Force solutions as the “air expeditionary force” and “composite air wings” could run into show-stopping impediments beyond U.S. Air Force control. This, in turn, has four consequences. First, American policymakers should investigate the possibility of securing additional air base access in Asia. The most attractive candidate, especially in the context of a rising China, is Cam Ran Bay in Vietnam. Other alternatives, especially for contingencies in the Persian Gulf and the greater South Asian region, could include transit rights in India or Pakistan. Second, U.S. Air Force planners will have to devote relatively greater resources to mobility assets and support platforms such as airborne tankers to keep a smaller combat force capable of long-distance operations. Third, planners must begin to give some thought to novel technologies capable of mitigating the access and staging problem. These technologies can include, at the more radical end, floating air bases of the kind proposed by RAND several decades ago, or at the more conservative technical end, more-efficient engines, longer-range aircraft, and the like. Fourth, U.S. Air Force planners must increasingly think in terms of joint operations not merely at the cosmetic level, as in the cruise missile strikes against Iraq, but in terms of a true division of labor, especially in the early stages of a distant contingency.

Solves Korean war.
Ashley Tellis, South Asian Analyst @ Rand, ’98 ([[http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897%20/MR897.chap3.pdf|http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR897 /MR897.chap3.pdf]])

The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American air and space power will continue to remain critical for conventional and unconventional deterrence in Asia. This argument is justified by the fact that several subregions of the continent still harbor the potential for full-scale conventional war. This potential is most conspicuous on the Korean peninsula and, to a lesser degree, in South Asia, the Persian Gulf, and the South China Sea. In some of these areas, such as Korea and the Persian Gulf, the United States has clear treaty obligations and, therefore, has preplanned the use of air power should contingencies arise. U.S. Air Force assets could also be called upon for operations in some of these other areas. In almost all these cases, U.S. air power would be at the forefront of an American politico-military response because (a) of the vast distances on the Asian continent; (b) the diverse range of operational platforms available to the U.S. Air Force, a capability unmatched by any other country or service; (c) the possible unavailability of naval assets in close proximity, particularly in the context of surprise contingencies; and (d) the heavy payload that can be carried by U.S. Air Force platforms. These platforms can exploit speed, reach, and high operating tempos to sustain continual operations until the political objectives are secured. The entire range of warfighting capability—fighters, bombers, electronic warfare (EW), suppression of enemy air defense (SEAD), combat support platforms such as AWACS and J-STARS, and tankers—are relevant in the Asia-Pacific region, because many of the regional contingencies will involve armed operations against large, fairly modern, conventional forces, most of which are built around large land armies, as is the case in Korea, China-Taiwan, India-Pakistan, and the Persian Gulf. In addition to conventional combat, the demands of unconventional deterrence will increasingly confront the U.S. Air Force in Asia. The Korean peninsula, China, and the Indian subcontinent are already arenas of WMD proliferation. While emergent nuclear capabilities continue to receive the most public attention, chemical and biological warfare threats will progressively become future problems. The delivery systems in the region are increasing in range and diversity. China already targets the continental United States with ballistic missiles. North Korea can threaten northeast Asia with existing Scud-class theater ballistic missiles. India will acquire the capability to produce ICBM-class delivery vehicles, and both China and India will acquire long-range cruise missiles during the time frames examined in this report.

===[[#Negative-Impact Turns-AT: Prolif Good]]AT: Prolif Good=== 

Proliferation causes extinction.
Victor Utgoff, Deputy Director of Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of Institute for Defense Analysis, Summer 02, “Proliferation, Missile Defence and American Ambitions”, Survival, p.87-90.

The war between Iran and Iraq during the 1980s led to the use of chemical weapons on both sides and exchanges of missiles against each other’s cities. And more recently, violence in the Middle East escalated in a few months from rocks and small arms to heavy weapons on one side, and from police actions to air strikes and armoured attacks on the other. Escalation of violence is also basic human nature. Once the violence starts, retaliatory exchanges of violent acts can escalate to levels unimagined by the participants before hand. Intense and blinding anger is a common response to fear or humiliation or abuse. And such anger can lead us to impose on our opponents whatever levels of violence are readily accessible. In sum, widespread proliferation is likely to lead to an occasional shoot-out with nuclear weapons, and that such shoot-outs will have a substantial probability of escalating to the maximum destruction possible with the weapons at hand. Unless nuclear proliferation is stopped, we are headed toward a world that will mirror the American Wild West of the late 1800s. With most, if not all, nations wearing nuclear ‘six-shooters’ on their hips, the world may even be a more polite place than it is today, but every once in a while we will all gather on a hill to bury the bodies of dead cities or even whole nations.

We outweigh generic theory arguments – the risk that we are right in even a single instance outweighs all prolif good arguments
Knopf 2 (Jeffrey, Department of National Security Affairs at Naval Postgraduate School, Security Studies, “Recasting the Proliferation Optimism-Pessimism Debate”, Oct. 2002)
DEVELOPING AND testing theories are core tasks in the social sciences. Accordingly, social scientists have established criteria for judging which theories are best. When confronted with rival theories about a subject like proliferation, academics naturally turn to these familiar criteria to evaluate which of the two contending camps has the better argument. Determining which is the better theory, however, does not necessarily tell us what is the best policy; any attempt to infer policy lessons from theory tests should be done carefully. It makes no sense to test theories in the most rigorous manner possible, only to be casual in how one derives policy advice from the results of these tests. Optimists and pessimists have increasingly sought to conform their work to standard social science procedures. Faced with two different theories on a question—in this case, whether proliferation will lead to stability—scholars tend to treat the two theories as competing alternatives. They therefore pit the two theories against each other in a superiority contest,21 where the ultimate test is how well each theory matches empirical evidence. If one theory’s predictions are generally confirmed while the other’s are frequently falsified, there will be a natural inclination to favor the policy position associated with the stronger theory. This is not always justified, however. Policymakers have to be concerned with the incorrect predictions. It is little comfort to be told that a theory is far better than its rival if that theory turns out to be wrong in the individual case you care about. Many pessimists have pointed this out when they are simply critiquing the optimist position. As Feaver notes:At best, rational deterrence theory can predict that nuclear deterrence should assure peace most of the time….[I]f RDT could successfully predict peace 99.5 percent of the time it would therefore miss .5 percent of the time. This would qualify for the social science hall of fame, but it would not make nuclear proliferation trivial…[g]iven the stakes involved….22 Even some nonpessimists acknowledge this point. Peter Lavoy, in a review of the Waltz-Sagan debate that sides with Waltz on many of the issues, nonetheless concludes on a cautionary note: “Policymakers…must worry about exceptions to the rule.…[O]ne exception would…dwarf the significance of the theory.…Even if Waltz is correct 99 percent of the time, the 1 percent of exceptional cases is what U.S. policymakers must worry about.”23 Richard Betts argues that this concern also follows from a classical realist outlook, which he takes pains to distinguish from Waltz’s “neo-” or structural realist approach. Betts notes further thatit is not clear what else might happen once there is even a single exception to the prediction of stability and that this is a further reason for caution. As he puts it, “the ramifications of the first breakage of the half-century taboo on nuclear use are too unpredictable to tempt us to run the experiment.”24

Their argument is only attractive because of a limited empirical record – impossible to justify proliferation because can’t guarantee deterrence theory
Knopf 2(Jeffrey, Department of National Security Affairs at Naval Postgraduate School, Security Studies, “Recasting the Proliferation Optimism-Pessimism Debate”, Oct. 2002)

Even if RDT [rational deterrence theory] is the more accurate theory, however, this does not alone make it valid to conclude that nuclear proliferation would in some cases be for the best. For policy purposes, there is a world of difference between a probabilistic theory and an iron law. If the probability of nuclear war is very low but not zero—that is, if the nuclear peace hypothesis is probabilistic, not ironclad— there may simply not have been enough interactions between nuclear-armed states to produce a deterrence failure. In this case, if enough nuclear weapon states interact over a long enough period of time, it becomes likely that nuclear weapons will again be used against populated areas, as they were twice previously in 1945. To claim that the tacit acceptance or selective promotion of proliferation is the clearly superior policy recommendation, it is necessary (though not sufficient) that the chances of nuclear war must be so close to zero that the benefits expected from the greater incentives to avoid major conventional wars could not plausibly be offset by a risk of nuclear use. Otherwise, the issue becomes a trade-off in which one must decide what level of risk of nuclear destruction is tolerable in order to achieve the anticipated benefits of a reduced probability of conventional war. FOR POLICY PURPOSES, therefore, it is not enough to evaluate which theory has the highest correlation with the empirical observations to date; evaluating risk is also important. One risk that must be addressed is whether there is a realistic possibility that RDT’s predictions of stability could be wrong. For two reasons, I will argue in this section, optimists have underestimated the likelihood of nuclear war when proliferation occurs. First, the theories of optimists and pessimists are not necessarily mutually exclusive, but are instead potentially complementary. Second, one can deduce logical reasons why a country acting rationally (as social scientists use that term) might nonetheless get into a nuclear war even when the other side has survivable nuclear forces.

Prefer specific scenarios – only way to accurately test their general theories
Knopf 2 (Jeffrey, Department of National Security Affairs at Naval Postgraduate School, Security Studies, “Recasting the Proliferation Optimism-Pessimism Debate”, Oct. 2002)

In response, other scholars have argued there are reasons to anticipate deterrence failures and accidents involving nuclear weapons, a position that has been labeled “proliferation pessimism.” A 1994 article by Scott Sagan describing “the perils of proliferation” served as an important milestone in the development of the pessimist position.4 Waltz and Sagan subsequently published a book containing modified versions of their original essays plus rebuttals to each other’s arguments.5 For this reason, the optimism-pessimism debate is also often referred to as “the Waltz-Sagan debate.” Most of the contributions to this debate have sought to inform policy, both in states that advocate nonproliferation and in states that are potential proliferators. 6 Waltz’s Adelphi Paper, for example, includes a section laying out the “implications for American policy,” while Sagan’s “Perils” article closes with a discussion of “policy implications.”7 Because academic social science is often skeptical or openly dismissive of policy-oriented work, the scholars who have studied proliferation deserve credit for seeking to address an important policy issue. Unfortunately, as an effort to help the international community and potential proliferators make better decisions, the optimism-pessimism debate constitutes an inadequate and potentially misleading source of guidance. Three conceptual problems reduce the value of the advice offered to policymakers. First, the debate has increasingly been framed as a contest between rival theories. Ascertaining which theory is stronger, however, does not necessarily lead directly to sound policy advice.A theory will be seen as superior if its predictions are correct more often than those of its rivals. If, however, even a few predictions are wrong, and the outcomes in those cases are major conventional wars or nuclear exchanges, it might not make sense to adopt the policy recommendation that has been associated with the theory in question. Determining which theory is stronger is still a relevant task, but great care must be exercised in moving from theory evaluation to the drawing of policy inferences.


Even if weapons induce caution, they inflame regional tension and change risk calculus – ensures escalation
Knopf 2(Jeffrey, Department of National Security Affairs at Naval Postgraduate School, Security Studies, “Recasting the Proliferation Optimism-Pessimism Debate”, Oct. 2002)
Two other reasons why nuclear war is possible under standard rationality assumptions involve the intrinsic nature of nuclear weapons themselves. Because nuclear weapons are so destructive, proliferation optimists expect states to behave extremely carefully. Fear of nuclear devastation, however, can cut two ways. It can make national leaders shrink away from the brink, as optimists expect. In addition, though, the danger of nuclear attack can also be provocative, triggering action intended to forestall the danger. In short, both “flight” and “fight” responses are possible. Their awesome destructive power means nuclear weapons are dualistic in their effects: they are likely both to dampen and to inflame tensions in regions where they are introduced. Nuclear weapons can exacerbate tensions in two ways: by creating an increased perception of threat and by prompting efforts to limit damage in the event of nuclear war. On the first point, proliferation optimists write as if potential adversaries exist at a given, fixed level of hostility. This is unlikely to be the case. Rather, a state that acquires nuclear weapons is likely to be perceived as more threatening than it was before. This will be partly because of the new, more destructive capabilities at its disposal. In some cases, however, a state’s pursuit of nuclear weapons may also change how other states view its intentions. This is especially likely because new and aspiring nuclear states are not always circumspect in their pronouncements. In March 1994, in the midst of a crisis over North Korea’s suspected nuclear weapons program, the North’s chief negotiator threatened his South Korean counterpart that a war could break out in which the South would be turned into “a sea of fire.”47 After the May 1998 nuclear tests in India, Prime Minister Vajpayee wrote President Clinton and explicitly cited a threat from China as a motivation for the tests. Statements by Defense Minister Fernandes shortly before and again shortly after the tests also described China as “potential threat number one” to India.48 Other Indian officials publicly warned Pakistan to end its support for separatist insurgents in Kashmir. Home Minister Advani called on Islamabad to “realize the change in the geostrategic situation” and said that in the new circumstances even the option of “hot pursuit” would not be ruled out.49 Such statements are bound to be provocative to the states against which they are directed. States on the receiving end of new, public nuclear threats will likely feel a need to display their toughness as a way to show they will not be intimidated.


While nuclear weapons do encourage caution, they can also create pressures to demonstrate resolve, and any such demonstration carries with it some risk of escalation.






==[[#Negative-Stuff Against K Affs]]Stuff Against K Affs== 
===[[#Negative-Stuff Against K Affs-Realism (for Meg)]]Realism (for Meg)=== 

Realism is accurate and inevitable- transition away guarantees violence
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Montgomery 06</span></span> (Evan Braden, PhD Candidate in the Dept of Politics @ UVA, “Breaking Out of the Security Dilemma: Realism, Reassurance, and the Problem of Uncertainty”, International Security 31.2 (2006) 151-185, Project Muse, dbm)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This argument generates an obvious puzzle, however: If states can reduce uncertainty by altering their military posture, why has this form of reassurance been both uncommon and unsuccessful? 6 Few states, for example, have adopted defensive weapons to de-escalate an arms race or demonstrate their intentions, 7 and <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">repeated</span><span style="text-decoration: none;">efforts to restrain the Cold War competition between the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and the Soviet Union either failed or produced strategically negligible agreements that</span></span>, at least until its final years, "<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">proved incapable of moderating the superpower rivalry in any deep or permanent way.</span></span>" 8 How can scholars and policymakers understand why states often avoid military reassurance, when they choose to undertake it, why it fails, and when it can succeed? <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In 1906 Britain tried to prevent a further escalation of its naval race with Germany by decreasing the number of battleships it planned to construct, but this gesture was unreciprocated and the competition continued. In the late</span></span> 19<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">50s and early</span></span> 19<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">60s</span></span>, the <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Soviet Union substantially reduced its conventional forces, yet the U</span></span>nited <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">S</span></span>tates <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">did not view these reductions as proof of benign motives</span></span>. The later Soviet efforts under Mikhail Gorbachev were more successful, however, and seem to be a rare instance of a state using both arms control and arms reductions to disabuse others of the belief that it is or may be an aggressive actor. This is perhaps the only case in which such actions helped to bring about a fundamental change in a once-adversarial relationship.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">No alternative to realism—critical theory can’t break it down </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mearsheimer</span></span>, Prof of PoliSci @ UChicago, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">95</span></span> (John, International Security, Summer)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">For critical theorists, the key to achieving a “postmodern international system” is to alter state identity radically, or more specifically, to transform how states think about themselves and their relationship with other states. In the jargon of the theory, “insubjective understandings and expectations” matter greatly. In practice, this means that states must stop thinking of themselves as solitary egoists, and instead develop a strong communitarian ethos. A realist might argue that this goal is desirable in principle but <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">not realizable in practice</span></span> because the structure of the international system <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">forces states</span></span> to behave as egoists. Anarchy, offensive capabilities, and uncertain intentions combine to leave states with <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">little choic</span></span>e but to compete aggressively with each other. For realists, trying to infuse states with communitarian norms is a <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">hopeless cause</span></span>.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal; margin-bottom: 12pt;">No Alternative to Realism </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal;">Solomon 96</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;"> (Hussein, Senior Researcher, Human Security Project, Institute for Defence Policy, African Security Review Vol 5 No 2, 1996, "In Defence of Realism: Confessions of a Fallen Idealist", [[http://www.iss.co.za/pubs/ASR/5No2/5No2/InDefence.html]]) </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 12pt;">We have seen a great many criticisms levelled against the state-centric bias of realists, but what would be an alternative form of political community? In answer to this question Booth makes the following observation: "Modern states are too large to satisfy some human needs, and too small to cope with the requirements of guidance for an increasingly interdependent planet. The logical conclusion of this argument is that power should be more diffuse. It is desirable to take it away from states to more local communities (to cater for cultural diversity, for example), while wider problems such as economic and environmental issues, could be more effectively dealt with by designated regional or global function organisations."104 If this is an alternative to the State, then it is indeed a poor substitute. Consider the idea that power should be more diffuse. Whether one talks of a strongly centralised unitary state or a federal state with the devolution of power (thereby empowering local communities), it is still a state. Thus, it is not an argument against the State, it is an argument against a specific type of state (unitary) in favour of another type of state (federal). If Booth is talking about even greater autonomy to cater for cultural diversity, how might this apply to the South African scenario? Apartheid South Africa justified its bantustan policies following a similar type of logic. More recently, Inkatha has been using a similar kind of logic in order to entrench itself in the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature; and the possibility of another Biafra or Katanga developing in that troubled region is becoming increasingly real. Booth’s other idea that ‘wider problems such as economic and environmental issues could be more effectively dealt with by regional or global function organisations’ should also be questioned. In the first instance, economic regimes like the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Trade And Tariffs (GATT) which led to the formation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) have failed to achieve its stated objective of ‘tariff disarmament’ as trade relations between the US and Japan indicate. Neither is this an isolated incident, if the ‘chicken wars’ between South Africa and the US are anything to go by. On the question of environmental regimes one may simply point out how global environmental concerns floundered in the high seas of national self-interest at the Rio Earth Summit in 1992.105 To emphasise the point, both brutally and simply, there is no practical alternative to the State. Walker says that "[t]he state is a political category in a way that the world, or the globe, or the planet, or humanity is not."106 Also stressing the centrality of the State, UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali observes: "The foundation-stone of this work [ie. peace and economic development] is and must remain the State. Respect for its fundamental sovereignty and integrity are crucial to any common international progress."107 But, the most powerful argument for the State comes not from its many and varied successes, but rather from its failure. State collapse, as in Somalia, has not been met by cries of jubilation from its ‘emancipated’ inhabitants as Booth would have us believe.108 Rather, tragedy and misery has greeted Somalians with its collapse. This is why the State must and should remain the primary referent in domestic and international affairs. The principle of state sovereignty is the most plausible way of reconciling claims about the universal and the particular, society and the individual. Without the apparatus of a strong state, the way becomes clear for the Mohammed Farah Aideeds of the world to appear. Without the apparatus of a strong state, the world will be plunged into Somali-style warlordism of the Dark Age variety.</span>
===[[#Negative-Stuff Against K Affs-Utilitarianism]]<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">Utilitarianism</span>=== 
Default to util
Harries, 94 – Editor @ The National Interest
(Owen, Power and Civilization, The National Interest, Spring, lexis)

Performance is the test. Asked directly by a Western interviewer, “In principle, do you believe in one standard of human rights and free expression?”, Lee immediately answers, “Look, it is not a matter of principle but of practice.” This might appear to represent a simple and rather crude pragmatism. But in its context it might also be interpreted as an appreciation of the fundamental point made by Max Weber that, in politics, it is “the ethic of responsibility” rather than “the ethic of absolute ends” that is appropriate. While an individual is free to treat human rights as absolute, to be observed whatever the cost, governments must always weigh consequences and the competing claims of other ends. So once they enter the realm of politics, human rights have to take their place in a hierarchy of interests, including such basic things as national security and the promotion of prosperity. Their place in that hierarchy will vary with circumstances, but no responsible government will ever be able to put them always at the top and treat them as inviolable and over-riding. The cost of implementing and promoting them will always have to be considered.


Even if deontology is good in the abstract, it doesn’t make sense in policymaking
Goodin, 95 – Professor of Philosophy @ Australian National University
(Robert, Utilitarianism as a Public Philosophy, p. 26)

The great advantage of utilitarianism as a guide to public conduct is that it avoids gratuitous sacrifices, it ensures as best we are able to ensure in the uncertain world of public policy-making that policies are sensitive to people’s interests or desires or preferences. The great failing of more deontological theories, applied to those realms, is that they fixate upon duties done for the sake of duty rather than for the sake of any good that is done by doing one’s duty. Perhaps it is permissible (perhaps it is even proper) for private individuals in the course of their personal affairs to fetishize duties done for their own sake. It would be a mistake for public officials to do likewise, not least because it is impossible. The fixation on motives makes absolutely no sense in the public realm, and might make precious little sense in the private on even, as Chapter 3 shows.

Obligation to collective well-being makes moral theory irrelevant
Kennan, 86 – Professor Emeritus, Institute for Advanced Study @ Princeton
(George, Morality and Foreign Policy, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 64, Iss. 2, Winter)

Second, let us recognize that the functions, commitments and moral obligations of governments are not the same as those of the individual. Government is an agent, not a principal. Its primary obligation is to the interests of the national society it represents, not to the moral impulses that individual elements of that society may experience. No more than the attorney vis-à-vis the client, nor the doctor vis-à-vis the patient, can government attempt to insert itself into the consciences of those whose interests it represents. Let me explain. The interests of the national society for which government has to concern itself are basically those of its military security, the integrity of its political life and the well-being of its people. These needs have no moral quality. They arise from the very existence of the national state in question and from the status of national sovereignty it enjoys. They are the unavoidable necessities of a national existence and therefore not subject to classification as either “good” or “bad.” They may be questioned from a detached philosophic point of view. But the government of the sovereign state cannot make such judgments. When it accepts the responsibilities of governing, implicit in that acceptance is the assumption that it is right that the state should be sovereign, that the integrity of its political life should be assured, that its people should enjoy the blessings of military security, material prosperity and a reasonable opportunity for, as the Declaration of Independence put it, the pursuit of happiness. For these assumptions the government needs no moral justification, nor need it accept any moral reproach for acting on the basis of them.

Util ensures political equality
Dworkin, 77 – Professor of Philosophy @ NYU (Ronald, Taking Rights Seriously, p. 274-275)

Utilitarian arguments of policy, however, would seem secure from that objection. They do not suppose that any form of life isinherently more valuable than any other, but instead base their claim, that constraints on liberty are necessary to advance some collective goal of the community, just on the fact that that goal happens to be desired more widely or more deeply than any other. Utilitarian arguments of policy, therefore, seem not to oppose but on the contrary to embody the fundamental right of equal concern and respect, because they treat the wishes of each member of the community on a par with the wishes of any other, with no bonus or discount reflecting the view that the member is more or less worthy of concern, or his views more or less worthy of respect, than any other.

Util accommodates rights
Shaw, 99 – Professor of Philosophy @ San Jose State
(William H, Contemporary Ethics, p.185-186)

One of the most widespread criticisms of utilitarianism is that it cannot take rights seriously enough. Generally speaking, rights take precedence over considerations of immediate utility. They limit or restrict direct appeals to welfare maximization. For example, to have a right to free speech means that one is free to speak one's mind even if doing so will fail to maximize happiness because others will dislike hearing what one has to say. The right not to be compelled to incriminate oneself entails that it would be wrong to force a criminal defendant to testify against himself even if the results of doing so would be good. If rights are moral claims that trump straightforward appeals to utility," then utilitarianism, the critics argue, cannot meaningfully respect rights because their theory subordinates them to the promotion of welfare. However, the criticism that utilitarianism cannot do right by rights ignores the extent to which utilitarianism can, as discussed in Chapter 5, accommodate the moral rules, principles, and norms other than welfare maximization that appear to constitute the warp and woof of our moral lives. To be sure, utilitarians look at rights in a different light than do . moral theorists who see them as self-evident or as having an independent deontic status grounded on non-utilitarian considerations. For utilitarians, it is not rights, but the promotion of welfare, that lies at the heart of morality. Bentham was consistently hostile to the idea of natural rights, in large measure because he believed that invoking natural rights was only a way of dressing up appeals to intuition in fancy rhetoric. In a similar vein, many utilitarians today believe that in both popular and philosophical discourse people are too quick to declare themselves possessors of all sorts of putative rights and that all too frequently these competing claims of rights only obscure the important, underlying moral issues.

===[[#Negative-Stuff Against K Affs-Evaluate Consequences]]Evaluate Consequences=== 


Evaluate consequences – blind adherence to rigid principals in the face of catastrophe leads to ideological overreaction. We should try to analyze consequences even if they’re uncertain.
Weiss, 99 – Presidential Professor of Political Science @ CUNY Graduate Center
(Thomas G, Ethics and International Affairs 13.1, “Principles, Politics, and Humanitarian Action”)

Scholars and practitioners frequently employ the term “dilemma” to describe painful decision making but “quandary” would be more apt.27A dilemma involves two or more alternative courses of action with unintended but unavoidable and equally undesirable consequences. If consequences are equally unpalatable, then remaining inactive on the sidelines is an option rather than entering the serum on the field. A quandary, on the other hand, entails tough choices among unattractive options with better or worse possible outcomes. While humanitarians are perplexed, they are not and should not be immobilized. The solution is not indifference or withdrawal but rather appropriate engagement. The key lies in making a good faith effort to analyze the advantages and disadvantages of different alloys of politics and humanitarianism, and then to choose what often amounts to the lesser of evils.
Thoughtful humanitarianism is more appropriate than rigid ideological responses, for four reasons: goals of humanitarian action often conflict, good intentions can have catastrophic consequences; there are alternative ways to achieve ends; and even if none of the choices is ideal, victims still require decisions about outside help. What Myron Wiener has called “instrumental humanitarianism” would resemble just war doctrine because contextual analyses and not formulas are required. Rather than resorting to knee-jerk reactions to help, it is necessary to weigh options and make decisions about choices that are far from optimal.
Many humanitarian decisions in northern Iraq, Somalia, Bosnia, and Rwanda—and especially those involving economic or military sanctions— required selecting least-bad options. Thomas Nagle advises that “given the limitations on human action, it is naive to suppose that there is a solution to every moral problem. “29 Action-oriented institutions and staff are required in order to contextualized their work rather than apply preconceived notions of what is right or wrong. Nonetheless, classicists continue to insist on Pictet’s “indivisible whole” because humanitarian principles “are interlocking, overlapping and mutually supportive. . . . It is hard to accept the logic of one without also accepting the others. “30
The process of making decisions in war zones could be compared to that pursued by “clinical ethical review teams” whose members are on call to make painful decisions about life-and-death matters in hospitals.sl The sanctity of life is complicated by new technologies, but urgent decisions cannot be finessed. It is impermissible to long for another era or to pretend that the bases for decisions are unchanged. However emotionally wrenching, finding solutions is an operational imperative that is challenging but intellectually doable. Humanitarians who cannot stand the heat generated by situational ethics should stay out of the post-Cold War humanitarian kitchen.
Principles in an Unprincipled World
Why are humanitarians in such a state of moral and operational disrepair? In many ways Western liberal values over the last few centuries have been moving toward interpreting moral obligations as going beyond a family and intimate networks, beyond a tribe, and beyond a nation. The impalpable moral ideal is concern about the fate of other people, no matter how far away.szThe evaporation of distance with advances in technology and media coverage, along with a willingness to intervene in a variety of post–Cold War crises, however, has produced situations in which humanitarians are damned if they do and if they don’t. Engagement by outsiders does not necessarily make things better, and it may even create a “moral hazard by altering the payoffs to combatants in such a way as to encourage more intensive fighting.“33
This new terrain requires analysts and practitioners to admit ignorance and question orthodoxies. There is no comfortable theoretical framework or world vision to function as a compass to steer between integration and fragmentation, globalization and insularity. Michael Ignatieff observes, “The world is not becoming more chaotic or violent, although our failure to understand and act makes it seem so. “34Gwyn Prins has pointed to the “scary humility of admitting one’s ignorance” because “the new vogue for ‘complex emergencies’ is too often a means of concealing from oneself that one does not know what is going on. “3sTo make matters more frustrating, never before has there been such a bombardment of data and instant analysis; the challenge of distilling such jumbled and seemingly contradictory information adds to the frustration of trying to do something appropriate fast.
International discourse is not condemned to follow North American fashions and adapt sound bites and slogans. It is essential to struggle with and even embrace the ambiguities that permeate international responses to wars, but without the illusion of a one-size-fits-all solution. The trick is to grapple with complexities, to tease out the general without ignoring the particular, and still to be inspired enough to engage actively in trying to make a difference.
Because more and more staff of aid agencies, their governing boards, and their financial backers have come to value reflection, an earlier policy prescription by Larry Minear and me no longer appears bizarre: “Don’t just do something, stand there! “3sThis advice represented our conviction about the payoffs from thoughtful analyses and our growing distaste for the stereotypical, yet often accurate, image of a bevy of humanitarian actors flitting from one emergency to the next.
Their appeal to simplistic thinking is more likely to cause violence and dehumanization
Chandler, 1 – Policy Research Institute @ Leeds Metropolitan University
(David, Human Rights Quarterly 23, “The Road to Military Humanitarianism”)

The search for victims has dominated media coverage of humanitarian crises. The Kosovo crisis, for example, saw journalists “impatient to find a ‘good’ story—i.e. a mass atrocity.”57 Many Western journalists were dispatched to Macedonia and Albania with the sole purpose of finding a rape victim. Benedicte Giaever of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) was angered that “almost every journalist who came to see her asked one thing: could she give them a rape victim to interview?”58 This approach, which takes the humanitarian crisis out of a political context to tell a “fairy tale” or moral story, has been termed the “journalism of attachment.” This style of journalism has been forcefully critiqued:
[F]ar from raising public understanding of the horrors of war, their reports mystify what conflicts are really about. By abstracting acts of violence from any wider conflict over political aims, they remove any possibility of people seeing what caused the war. The result of imposing a ready-made Good v Evil framework on every situation is that conflicts can only be understood as the consequence of man’s atavistic, bestial urges. Instead of “humanising” a war, this approach ultimately dehumanises all those involved.59
Alex de Waal terms the outlook of the international humanitarian agencies, and media promotion of their cause, “disaster tourism”; in humanitarian crises they selectively saw the worst and assumed the worst.60 The lack of knowledge of the severity of the famine, drought, or civil conflict led to exaggerated predictions of the death toll, and, of course, the need for support for the agency’s declared rights-based humanitarian aims. The predominant approach of humanitarian interventionists to the conflicts in former Yugoslavia and Rwanda demonstrates the dangers inherent in this perspective. The humanitarian NGOs have explained the civil conflicts as events in and of themselves, from which it can only be concluded that the people of these regions are uncivilized, prone to violent and savage ethnic passions, or at the very least easily manipulated by government propaganda because they lack independent critical faculties.61
The campaigning human rights-based NGOs did much to denigrate the non-Western state and legitimize Western activism through the creation of the incapable human rights victim. As Pierre Krähenbuhl notes:
[T]he legitimacy of the humanitarian gesture is intimately connected with the ability to consider the “other”, the person in need, as a human being, something which the repeated use of the expression “victim” tends to make more difficult. It strips of all human dignity the man, woman or child whom it is supposed to define.62
While Cold War power politics tarnished the idea of “human-centered” state-led human rights activism, the campaigning and aid NGOs revived the concept of “ethical” Western involvement in humanitarian issues. As the late John Vincent noted: “[t]here is one sense, however, in which the arrival of the issue of human rights in international society may be regarded as wholly progressive. It is the sense in which the idea of human rights is borne by non-governmental organizations who act in defense of no sectional interest.”63
With the end of the Cold War the geopolitical straitjacket was removed and humanitarian agencies and human rights advocacy groups seized the opportunity to influence the international agenda.64 The agencies that were able to do this most successfully were those that clearly pursued rightsbased “new humanitarianism” and rejected the post-1945 humanitarian aid framework of ICRC neutrality and needs-based emergency relief, which was tied to respect for state sovereignty rather than human rights protection. The NGOs made the running in the New Order because they were less bound by either official mandates or Cold War orientations than international institutions. The lack of legal mandate and organizational flexibility has made it easy for NGOs to adapt their perspective to be in tune with the times. The major exception to this shift has been the ICRC, the only international relief organization apart from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) tied to a mandate under international law (the Geneva Convention regulations).
This new sort of humanitarianism, which instead of operating separately from political mechanisms, saw itself as an alternative guide to policy making. Far from being neutral in relation to the aspirations of both Soviet Communism and US-led market economies, both these perspectives were seen to be flawed because they put politics above people. The language of human rights was the perfect foil for advocating an NGO-led approach. Rejecting the political Cold War framework and the narrow strategic concerns of geopolitical strategy, the immediate situation of the victims was held to be all that mattered. Michael Ignatieff quotes the disillusion of Don McCullin, a British war photographer:
[B]ut what are my politics? I certainly take the side of the underprivileged. I could never say I was politically neutral. But whether I’m of the Right or the Left—I can’t say. . . . I feel, in my guts, at one with the victims. And I find there’s integrity in that stance.65
Ignatieff astutely notes that this approach is a “weary world away from the internationalism of the 1960s” when there was a political cause at stake and conflict and interventionism could be supported or opposed on the basis of Left and Right.66 Today, he states “there are no good causes left— only victims of bad causes.”67 Once political change in non-Western states is seen to be a flawed and pointless exercise, the only sympathy is for victims: “the twentieth-century inflection of moral universalism has taken the form of an anti-ideological and antipolitical ethic of siding with the victim; the moral risk entailed by this ethic is misanthropy.”68 This approach risks “misanthropy” because human rights activists find little that is positive in the societies in which they work. Instead, the activists see only passive victims and evil or dangerous abusers.

These knee-jerk reactions cause genocide Mohawk, 2K – Associate Professor of History @ SUNY Buffalo (John C, Utopian Legacies, p. 4-5) People who believe that they are acting on a plan to solve all of the humankind’s problems think they are on a kind of sacred mission, even when the origin of their inspiration is secular in nature and makes no claim to intervention by a higher power. Although adherents may have only a vague idea about how the utopia will come about or what it will be like when it arrives, utopian movements often stimulate high levels of enthusiasm and a widely shared sense of being a “chosen people” with a special destiny. People caught up in such movements tend to be intolerant of others who are not part of this projected destiny, who do not believe in the same things, and are not expected to share in the future benefits. One reason for the popularity of these movements is that they exalt the importance of the group, praise their imagined superior qualities and future prospects, and urge that, relative to other peoples, they are special and more deserving. This pattern of self-aggrandizement has often proven popular and energizing. It contains a message that others who are not special or chosen are without significant value and may be treated accordingly. This kind of intolerance can result in the denial of rights, including the right to live, to hold property, to vote, or to hold professional licenses, if the inspired group has the power to do these things. A scornful indifference to these unbelieving and unentitled others can manifest as racism and/or ethnocentrism. Such intolerance has been known to lead to crimes against humanity, including systematic acts of genocide. Moral absolutism is counterproductive – it undermines coalitions and causes exclusion Isaac, 2 – Professor of Poli Sci @ U Indiana, Bloomington (Jeffrey, Ends, Means and Politics, Dissent, Vol 49, Iss. 2, Spring) As writers such as Niccolo Machiavelli, Max Weber, Reinhold Niebuhr, and Hannah Arendt have taught, an unyielding concern with moral goodness undercuts political responsibility. The concern may be morally laudable, reflecting a kind of personal integrity, but it suffers from three fatal flaws: (1) It fails to see that the purity of one’s intention does not ensure the achievement of what one intends. Abjuring violence or refusing to make common cause with morally compromised parties may seem like the right thing; but if such tactics entail impotence, then it is hard to view them as serving any moral good beyond the clean conscience of their supporters; (2) it fails to see that in a world of real violence and injustice, moral purity is not simply a form of powerlessness; it is often a form of complicity in injustice. This is why, from the standpoint of politics--as opposed to religion--pacifism is always a potentially immoral stand. In categorically repudiating violence, it refuses in principle to oppose certain violent injustices with any effect; and (3) it fails to see that politics is as much about unintended consequences as it is about intentions; it is the effects of action, rather than the motives of action, that is most significant. Just as the alignment with “good” may engender impotence, it is often the pursuit of “good” thatgenerates evil. This is the lesson of communism in the twentieth century: it is not enough that one’s goals be sincere or idealistic; it is equally important, always, to ask about the effects of pursuing these goals and to judge these effects in pragmatic and historically contextualized ways. Moral absolutism inhibits this judgment. It alienates those who are not true believers. It promotes arrogance. And it undermines political effectiveness.
Don’t succumb to narcissistic pats on the back by ignoring the political consequences of well-intended actions – policy failures don’t help anyone despite the aff’s intentions Weiss, 99 – Presidential Professor of Political Science @ CUNY Graduate Center (Thomas G, Ethics and International Affairs 13.1, “Principles, Politics, and Humanitarian Action”) What are the pros and cons of impartial versus political humanitarianism, and what form do differences in approach take in designing assistance and protection activities? Although agencies frequently have performed well under arduous circumstances, the disastrous consequences of much contemporary humanitarian action constitute a serious enough indictment of past procedures to force a thorough reexamination of how all humanitarian agencies approach their work in war zones. Classicists, whose impulses and mores have compelled them to respond automatically to the plight of victims in the past, now face a painful quandary. If the objective of relieving suffering suffices, there is no reason to scrutinize the short- or longerterm impacts of assistance - responding with one’s heart and guts is adequate. However, if impacts beyond the immediate intervention are as or more important than the immediate relief of suffering, then a painful process of questioning should begin. Classicists are obliged to take adequately into account the results of the realpolitik calculations by states, factional politics within war zones and partisan politics in donor countries, and outcomes of international public policy debates. Honest questions should be asked about engagement and disengagement. Rushing immediately to the scene of a disaster is not preordained. Doing nothing is an option. Reflections and not reflexes are required because, in David Riefl’s words, “despite the best intentions of aid workers, and at times because of them, they become logisticians in the war efforts of warlords, fundamentalists, gangsters, and ethnic cleansers. “4* The 1998 background document for the second off-the-record Wolfsberg Humanitarian Forum organized by the ICRC was less poignant but similar in its conclusion: “Aid in complex emergencies is always determined by a highly politicized context and has political implications itself, whether as a direct consequence of its provision or by way of intentional or unintentional side-effects.”43 The “good Samaritan” figures prominently in ICRC documentation, and many humanitarians agree implicitly or explicitly with Sommaruga’s biblical interpretation and his perennial praise for apolitical humanitarianism as an “act of charity. “44Paul’s First Letter to the Corinthians praises charity as the greatest of virtues, but John Hutchinson has criticized the “champions of charity” on the grounds that they helped make war more palatable.45 In light of substantial evidence of the counterproductive effects of wellintentioned humanitarian action, there are still other reasons to question visceral charity. Altruism should infuse debate but not constitute policy. It is impermissible to cede to virtue if it hinders rather than helps a political solution, leads to more violence and conflict, supports unduly the growth of a war economy, or undermines local coping capacities. Classical humanitarianism may seem unequivocally noble, but counterproductive efforts are uncharitable. Benign motivations are insufficient if the results are dreadful—just as selfish motivations are sufficient if the results are beneficial. Alain Destexhe, former secretary-general of the international office of MSF and now president of the International Crisis Group and member of the Belgian Senate, argues: “Humanitarian action is noble when coupled with political action and justice. Without them, it is doomed to failure and . . . a conscience-salving gimmick. “46
The necessity of intervention that results from their framework culminates in violence Chandler, 3 – Policy Research Institute @ Leeds Metropolitan University (David, British Journal of Politics and International Relations 5.3) This association of ethical human rights policies with the denunciation of the crimes or abuses of governments has led to a particularly one-sided perspective focusing on condemnation and punishment. It was assumed that the more ‘ethical’ the government or NGO group was the more forceful would be their calls for sanctions or other forms of international action. However, there is little evidence that condemnation and coercion was a more effective policy option than co-operation. Critics, for example Jeffrey Garten (1996), have questioned whether human rights activists would deny that US trade links and commercial investment in states like China, India, Indonesia and Brazil have contributed to improved economic opportunities, communication freedoms and better education, health and working conditions and conclude that ‘the criteria for promoting human rights ought to be not what salves our consciences, but rather what works’. Nevertheless, most high-profile ethical or value-orientated policy actions have involved selective condemnations, sanctions and military intervention; the policies of economic integration and aid have in fact suffered and are often seen as inimical to human rights promotion. It appears that the NGO approach of seeking ‘worst cases’ to highlight their good work through mounting a populist campaign of condemnation has been willingly followed by western governments. For example, in his ethical mission statement of July 1997, the British foreign secretary, Robin Cook identified the key aspects of ethical foreign policy. These all prioritised coercion over co-operation, ranging from public condemnation to international sanctions to threats to try political leaders at new ad hoc international courts (UKSCFF 1998; Cook 1997). The ethical policy of condemnation has, in fact, been central to the success of ethical foreign policy activism. The politics of condemnation takes for granted that the problems of weak and fragile states are internal matters of poor governance or questions of the mind-set of ruling elites. In this way, western governments justified their military action to remove the Afghan regime, after September 11, through the condemnation of the human rights record of the Taliban government, Tony Blair arguing: Look for a moment at the Taliban regime. It is undemocratic. That goes without saying. There is no sport allowed, or television or photography. No art or culture is permitted ... Women are treated in a way almost too revolting to be credible. First driven out of university; girls not allowed to go to school; no legal rights; unable to go out of doors without a man. Those that disobey are stoned (Blair 2001a).
This approach ignores the international context, for example the impact of sanctions and international isolation. It also pays scant attention to the domestic social and political context, never asking how women can have equal rights, or how high art and culture can flourish in a society ravaged by war and intervention and now largely based on feudal backwardness and a subsistence economy. The foreign policy of criticism exploits the narrow focus of the human rights framework to portray even destructive actions such as carpet bombing as a viable solution to problems which might more rationally be seen to lie in earlier international policies that had encouraged economic and social disintegration. This simplistic focus sets up an interventionist discourse where western governments are seen to have the solution to problems of nonwestern states and where any western government action, regardless of its outcome, can generally be portrayed as better than acquiescence and passivity.

===[[#Negative-Stuff Against K Affs-Cede the Political]]Cede the Political=== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The affirmative’s strategy is not political. Instead it is a strategy against politics. This undermines the possibility of liberation</span>.
Lawrence **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grossberg</span>**, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 19**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">92</span>**
(“We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 278-279)

Finally, the frontier itself is transformed. It is still partly defined by an attitude in which we are all implicated. In this sense, the frontier is in everyone—and with it, the possibility of evil. But now its popular/resonance is rearticulated to "activities" that have to be affectively and morally judged and policed. The enemy is not within people but in specific activities that construct the frontier over in the image of the new conservatism. The frontier becomes a seductive machine, seducing people not only into the need to invest, but ultimately into a series of temporary and mobile investments which locate them within a popular conservatism. The frontier's articula­tion by the logic of scandal marks a real break with older conserva­tisms built on some notion of tradition. Here politics is not a solution to problems, but a machine which organizes the population and its practices. What is on the "right" (in both senses) side of the frontier, on the other side of politics, is a purely affective morality (ie., one which leaves no space within which specific actions can be judged as anything other than scandalous).
The new conservatism embodies, not a political rebellion but a rebellion against politics. It makes politics into an other, located on the other side of the frontier. Anyone who actually talks about serious problems and their solutions is a dreamer; anyone who celebrates the mood in which the problem is at once terrifying and boring is a realist. It is no longer believing too strongly that is dangerous, but actually thinking that one is supposed to make one's dreams come true. The failure of Earth Day cannot be explained by merely pointing to its status as a feel-good media event, nor by pointing out the increasingly hypocritical appropriation of "green politics" by corporate polluters. It is rather that ecology, like any "politics," has become a question of attitude and investment, as if investing in the "correct" ideological beliefs, even demonstrating it, was an adequate construction of the political. Within the new conservative articula­tion of the frontier, political positions only exist as entirely affective investments, separated from any ability to act.

<span class="Heading2Char1"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This failure to engage the political process turns the affirmative into spectators who are powerless to produce real change</span>. </span>
Richard **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rorty</span>**, professor emeritus of comparative literature and philosophy, by courtesy, at Stanford University, 19**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span>**
(Richard, “ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America”, 1998, Pg. 7-9)

Such people find pride in American citizenship impossi­ble, and vigorous participation in electoral politics pointless. They associate American patriotism with an endorsement of atrocities: the importation of African slaves, the slaughter of Native Americans, the rape of ancient forests, and the Viet­nam War. Many of them think of national pride as appropri­ate only for chauvinists: for the sort of American who re­joices that America can still orchestrate something like the Gulf War, can still bring deadly force to bear whenever and wherever it chooses. When young intellectuals watch John Wayne war movies after reading Heidegger, Foucault, Stephenson, or Silko, they often become convinced that they live in a violent, inhuman, corrupt country. They begin to think of themselves as a saving remnant-as the happy few who have the insight to see through nationalist rhetoric to the ghastly reality of contemporary America. But this insight does not move them to formulate a legislative program, to join a political movement, or to share in a national hope.
The contrast between national hope and national self­-mockery and self-disgust becomes vivid when one compares novels like Snow Crash and Almanac of the Dead with socialist novels of the first half of the century-books like The Jungle, An American Tragedy, and The Grapes of Wrath. The latter were written in the belief that the tone of the Gettysburg Address was absolutely right, but that our country would have to transform itself in order to fulfill Lincoln's hopes. Transfor­mation would be needed because the rise of industrial capi­talism had made the individualist rhetoric of America's first century obsolete.
The authors of these novels thought that this rhetoric should be replaced by one in which America is destined to become the first cooperative commonwealth, the first class­less society. This America would be one in which income and wealth are equitably distributed, and in which the govern­ment ensures equality of opportunity as well as individual liberty. This new, quasi-communitarian rhetoric was at the heart of the Progressive Movement and the New Deal. It set the tone for the American Left during the first six decades of the twentieth century. Walt Whitman and John Dewey, as we shall see, did a great deal to shape this rhetoric.
The difference between early twentieth-century leftist in­tellectuals and the majority of their contemporary counter­parts is the difference between agents and spectators. In the early decades of this century, when an intellectual stepped back from his or her country's history and looked at it through skeptical eyes, the chances were that he or she was about to propose a <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">new political initiative</span>. Henry Adams was, of course, the great exception-the great abstainer from ·politics. But William James thought that Adams' diagnosis of the First Gilded Age as a symptom of irreversible moral and political decline was merely perverse. James's pragmatist theory of truth was in part a reaction against the sort of de­tached spectators hip which Adams affected.
For James, disgust with American hypocrisy and self­-deception was pointless unless accompanied by an effort to give America reason to be proud of itself in the future. The kind of proto- Heideggerian cultural pessimism which Adams cultivated seemed, to James, decadent and cowardly. "Democracy," James wrote, "is a kind of religion, and we are bound not to admit its failure. Faiths and utopias are the no­blest exercise of human reason, and no one with a spark of reason in him will sit down fatalistically before the croaker's picture.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Failure to engage in the political process will result in the takeover by the extreme right, leading to discrimination and war worldwide. </span>
Richard **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rorty</span>**, professor emeritus of comparative literature and philosophy, by courtesy, at Stanford University, 19**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">98</span>**
(Richard, “ACHIEVING OUR COUNTRY: Leftist Thought in Twentieth-Century America”, 1998, Pg. 89-94)
*WE DO NOT ENDORSE GENDERED LANGUAGE*

Many writers on socioeconomic policy have warned that the old industrialized democracies are heading into a Weimar-like period, one in which populist movements are likely to overturn constitutional governments. Edward Luttwak, for example, has suggested that fascism may be the American future. The point of his book The Endangered Ameri­can Dream is that members of labor unions, and unorganized unskilled workers, will sooner or later realize that their gov­ernment is not even trying to prevent wages from sinking or to prevent jobs from being exported. Around the same time, they will realize that suburban white-collar workers-them- selves desperately afraid of being downsized-are not going to let themselves be taxed to provide social benefits for any­one else.
At that point, something will crack. The nonsuburban electorate will decide that the system has failed and start looking around for a strongman to vote for-someone willing to assure them that, once he is elected, the smug bureaucrats, tricky lawyers, overpaid bond salesmen, and postmodernist professors will no longer be calling the shots. A scenario like that of Sinclair Lewis’ novel It Can’t Happen Here may then be played out. For once such a strongman takes office, nobody can predict what will happen. In 1932, most of the predictions made about what would happen if Hindenburg named Hitler chancellor were wildly overoptimistic.
One thing that is very likely to happen is that the gains made in the past forty years by black and brown Americans, and by homosexuals, will be wiped out. Jocular contempt for women will come back into fashion. The words "nigger" and "kike" will once again be heard in the workplace. All the sadism which the academic Left has tried to make unaccept­able to its students will come flooding back. All the resent­ment which badly educated Americans feel about having their manners dictated to them by college graduates will find an outlet. But such a renewal of sadism will not alter the effects of selfishness. For after my imagined strongman takes charge, he will quickly make his peace with the international super­rich, just as Hitler made his with the German industrialists. He will invoke the glorious memory of the Gulf War to pro­voke military adventures which will generate short-term prosperity. He will be a disaster for the country and the world. People will wonder why there was so little resistance to his evitable rise. Where, they will ask, was the American Left? Why was it only rightists like Buchanan who spoke to the workers about the consequences of globalization? Why could not the Left channel the mounting rage of the newly dispossessed It is often said that we Americans, at the end of the twenti­eth century, no longer have a Left. Since nobody denies the existence of what I have called the cultural Left, this amounts to an admission that that Left is unable to engage in national politics. It is not the sort of Left which can be asked to deal with the consequences of globalization. To get the country to deal with those consequences, the present cultural Left would have to transform itself by opening relations with the residue of the old reformist Left, and in particular with the labor unions. It would have to talk much more about money, even at the cost of talking less about stigma.
I have two suggestions about how to effect this transition. The first is that the Left should put a moratorium on theory. It should try to kick its philosophy habit. <span style="font-size: 7pt;">The second is that the Left should try to mobilize what remains of our pride in being Americans. It should ask the public to consider how the country of Lincoln and Whitman might be achieved. In support of my first suggestion, let me cite a passage from Dewey's Reconstruction in Philosophy in which he ex­presses his exasperation with the sort of sterile debate now going on under the rubric of "individualism versus commu­nitarianism." Dewey thought that all discussions which took this dichotomy seriously suffer from a common defect. They are all committed to the logic of general notions under which specific situa­tions are to be brought. What we want is light upon this or that group of individuals, this or that concrete human being, this or that special institution or social arrangement. For such a logic of inquiry, the tradition­ally accepted logic substitutes discussion of the mean­ing of concepts and their dialectical relationships with one another. Dewey was right to be exasperated by sociopolitical theory conducted at this level of abstraction. He was wrong when he went on to say that ascending to this level is typically a right­ist maneuver, one which supplies "the apparatus for intellec­tual justifications of the established order. "9 For such ascents are now more common on the Left than on the Right. The contemporary academic Left seems to think that the higher your level of abstraction, the more subversive of the estab­lished order you can be. The more sweeping and novel your conceptual apparatus, the more radical your critique. When one of today's academic leftists says that some topic has been "inadequately theorized," you can be pretty certain that he or she is going to drag in either philosophy of lan­guage, or Lacanian psychoanalysis, or some neo-Marxist ver­sion of economic determinism. Theorists of the Left think that dissolving political agents into plays of differential sub­jectivity, or political initiatives into pursuits of Lacan's im­possible object of desire, helps to subvert the established order. Such subversion, they say, is accomplished by "problematizing familiar concepts." Recent attempts to subvert social institutions by prob­lematizing concepts have produced a few very good books. They have also produced many thousands of books which represent scholastic philosophizing at its worst. The authors of these purportedly "subversive" books honestly believe that they are serving human liberty. But it is almost impossi­ble to clamber back down from their books to a level of ab­straction on which one might discuss the merits of a law, a treaty, a candidate, or a political strategy. Even though what these authors "theorize" is often something very concrete and near at hand-a current TV show, a media celebrity, a re­cent scandal-they offer the most abstract and barren expla­nations imaginable</span>.
These futile attempts to philosophize one's way into polit­ical relevance are a symptom of what happens when a Left <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">re­treats from activism</span> and adopts a spectatorial approach to the problems of its country. Disengagement from practice pro­duces theoretical hallucinations<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. These result in an intellec­tual environment which is, as Mark Edmundson says in his book Nightmare on Main Street, Gothic. The cultural Left is haunted by ubiquitous specters, the most frightening of which is called "power." This is the name of what Edmund­son calls Foucault's "haunting agency, which is everywhere and nowhere, as evanescent and insistent as a resourceful spook."</span>k<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."10</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is to vote negative to engage politics
Institutional approaches are the only way to avoid the collapse of all movements and effectively challenge the flawed state policies</span>.
Lawrence **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grossberg</span>**, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 19**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">92</span>**
(“We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 388-389)

﻿The demand for moral and ideological purity often results in the rejection of any hierarchy or organization. The question-can the master's tools be used to tear down the master's house?-ignores both the contingency of the relation between such tools and the master's power and, even more importantly, the fact that **there may be no other tools available.** Institutionalization is seen as a repressive impurity within the body politic rather than as a strategic and tactical, even <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">empowering, necessity</span>. It sometimes seems as if every progressive organization is condemned to recapitulate the same arguments and crisis, often leading to their collapse. 54 For example, Minkowitz has described a crisis in Act Up over the need for efficiency and organization, professionalization and even hierarchy,55 as if these inherently contradicted its commitment to democracy. This is particularly unfortunate since Act Up, whatever its limitations, has proven itself an effective and imaginative political strategist. The problems are obviously magnified with success, as membership, finances and activities grow.
This refusal of efficient operation and the moment of organization is intimately connected with the Left's appropriation and privileging of the local (as the site of democracy and resistance). This is yet another reason why structures of alliance are inadequate, since they often assume that an effective movement can be organized and sustained without such structuring. The Left needs to recognize the necessity of institutionalization and of systems of hierarchy, without falling back into its own authoritarianism. It needs to find reasonably democratic structures of institutionalization, <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">even if</span> they are impure and <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">compromised.</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The desire for pure politics undermines a litany of meaningful possibilities at overcoming domination. The alternative alone is best</span>.
Lawrence **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grossberg</span>**, Morris Davis Professor of Communication Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 19**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">92</span>**
(“We Gotta Get Out of this Place: Popular Conservatism and Postmodern Culture”, page 396)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Above all, rethinking the possibility of a Left politics will require <span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">a new model of intellectual and political authority which does not </span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.15pt;">begin by confidently judging every investment, every practice, every </span>articulation and every individual. It will have to measure both intel­<span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">lectual and political progress by movement within the fragile and </span>contradictory realities of people's lives, desires, fears and commit­ments, and not by some idealized utopia nor by its own theoretical <span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;">criteria. It will offer a moral and progressive politics which refuses </span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">to "police" everyday life and to define a structure of "proper" and </span>appropriate behaviors and attitudes. An impure politics—certainly, <span style="letter-spacing: 0.1pt;">without the myth of a perfect reflexivity which can guarantee its </span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;">authority (for authority is not an intellectual prize). A contaminated </span>politics, never innocent, rooted in the organization of distance and <span style="letter-spacing: -0.2pt;">densities through which all of us move together and apart, sometimes </span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.1pt;">hesitatingly, at other times recklessly. A politics that attempts to move people, perhaps just a little at first, in a different direction. </span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.15pt;">But a politics nonetheless, one which speaks with a certain authority, </span>as limited and frail as the lives of those who speak it. It will have to <span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;">be a politics articulated by and for people who are inevitably impli­</span>cated in the contemporary crisis of authority and whose lives have <span style="letter-spacing: 0.25pt;">been shaped by it. A politics for and by people who live in the </span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.1pt;">contemporary world of popular tastes, and who are caught in the </span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;">disciplined mobilization of everyday life. A politics for people who </span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.15pt;">are never innocent and whose hopes are always partly defined by the </span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.1pt;">very powers and inequalities they oppose. A modest politics that </span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.2pt;">struggles to effect real change, that enters into the often boring </span>challenges of strategy and compromise. An impure politics fighting for high stakes. </span>


===[[#Negative-Stuff Against K Affs-AT: K of Disads]]AT: K of Disads=== 


You should evaluate our politics DA. Their dogmatic refusal to consider political process implications is grounded in the same destructive blindness the aff criticizes.
David Chandler, Centre for the Study of Democracy - University of Westminster, ‘3
(British Journal of Politics and International Relations 5.3, “Rhetoric without responsibility”)

The attention to the articulation of a political mission, beyond the petty partisanship of left and right, through foreign policy activism abroad has been an important resource of authority and credibility for western political leaders. The ability to project or symbolise unifying ‘values’ has become a core leadership attribute. George W. Bush’s shaky start to the US presidency was transformed by his speech to Congress in the wake of the World Trade Centre and Pentagon attacks, in which he staked out his claim to represent and protect America’s ethical values against the terrorist ‘heirs of all the murderous ideologies of the 20th century’ (Bush 2001). Similarly, Tony Blair was at his most presidential in the wake of the attacks, arguing that values were what distinguished the two sides of the coming conflict: ‘We are democratic. They are not. We have respect for human life. They do not. We hold essentially liberal values. They do not’ (The Guardian, 27 March 1999). Peter Hain, minister of state at the UK Foreign Office, also focused on the ‘values that the terrorists attacked’ in his call for political unity around ‘tough action’ (The Guardian, 24 September 2001).
By association with the cause of the victims of international conflicts, western governments can easily gain a moral authority that cannot be secured through the domestic political process. Even general election victories, the defining point of the domestic political process, no longer bring authority or legitimacy. This was clear in the contested victory of George W. Bush in the 2000 elections, which turned on the problem of the ‘hanging’ chad in Florida. However, the problem of deriving legitimacy from elections is a much broader one, with declining voter turnouts. In the British elections in 2001 Tony Blair achieved a landslide second term mandate, but there was little sense of euphoria—this was a hollow victory on a 50 per cent turnout which meant only one in four of the electorate voted for New Labour.
The demise of the framework of traditional party politics, the source of western governments’ domestic malaise, is directly associated with the search for an external source of legitimacy. This process is illustrated in Michael Ignatieff’s quote from the writings of British war reporter Don McCullin:
But what are my politics? I certainly take the side of the underprivileged. I could never say I was politically neutral. But whether I’m of the right or the left—I can’t say ... I feel, in my guts, at one with the victims. And I find there’s integrity in that stance (Ignatieff 1998, 22–23).
Ignatieff suggests that the external projection of legitimacy or moral mission stems from the collapse of the left/right political framework, stating that ‘there are no good causes left—only victims of bad causes’ (ibid., 23). Governments, like many gap-year students, seek to define and find themselves through their engagement with the problems experienced by those in far-off countries. This search for a moral grounding through solidarity with the ‘victims of bad causes’ has led to an increasingly moralised ‘black and white’ or ‘good versus evil’ view of crisis situations in the non-western world.10 The jet-setting UK prime minister, Tony Blair, has been much criticised for appearing to deprioritise the domestic agenda in the wake of September 11, yet even his critics admit that his ‘moral mission’ in the international sphere has been crucial to enhancing his domestic standing.
The search for ethical or moral approaches emphasising the government’s moral authority has inexorably led to a domestic shift in priorities making international policy-making increasingly high profile in relation to other policy areas. The emphasis on ethical foreign policy commitments enables western governments to declare an unequivocal moral stance, which helps to mitigate awkward questions of government mission and political coherence in the domestic sphere. The contrast between the moral certainty possible in selected areas of foreign policy and the uncertainties of domestic policy-making was unintentionally highlighted when President George Bush congratulated Tony Blair on his willingness to take a stand over Afghanistan and Iraq: ‘The thing I admire about this prime minister is that he doesn’t need a poll or a focus group to convince him of the difference between right and wrong’ (UKGovernment 2002). Tony Blair, like Bush himself, of course relies heavily on polls and focus groups for every domestic initiative. It is only in the sphere of foreign policy that it appears there are opportunities for western leaders to project a self-image of purpose, mission and political clarity. This is because it is easier to promote a position which can be claimed to be based on clear ethical values, rather than the vagaries of compromise and political
pragmatism, in foreign policy than it is in domestic policy.
There are three big advantages: first, the object of policy activism, and criticism, is a foreign government; second, the British or American government is not so accountable for matching rhetoric to international actions; and third, credit can be claimed for any positive outcome of international policy, while any negative outcome can be blamed on the actions or inaction of the government or population of the country concerned. The following sections highlight that the lack of connection between rhetorical demands and accountability for policy-making or policy outcomes has made selected high-profile examples of ethical foreign policy-making a strong card for western governments, under pressure to consolidate their standing and authority at home.

Prefer specific scenarios – even if we invoke some security logic, the fact that others will securitize means that we have to make worst-case assessments to avoid escalation
Ole Waever, Senior Research Fellow – Copenhagen Peace Research Inst., 2K
(I. R. Theory & the Politics of European Integration, ed Kelstrup/Williams p. 282-285)

The other main possibility is to stress responsibility. Particularly in a field like security one has to make choices and deal with the challenges and risks that one confronts – and not shy away into long-range or principled transformations. The meta-political line risks (despite the theoretical commitment to the concrete other) implying that politics can be contained within large ‘systemic’ questions. In line with the classical revolutionary tradition, after the change (now no longer the revolution but the meta-physical transformation), there will be no more problems whereas in our situation (until the change) we should not deal with the ‘small questions’ of politics, only with the large one (cf. Rorty 1996). However, the ethical demand in post-structuralism (e.g. Derrida’s ‘justice’) is of a kind that can never be instantiated in any concrete political order – it is an experience of the undecidable that exceeds any concrete solution and re-inserts politics. Therefore, politics can never be reduced to meta-questions; there is no way to erase the small, particular, banal conflicts and controversies. In contrast to the quasi-institutionalist formula of radical democracy which one finds in the ‘opening’ oriented version of deconstruction, we could with Derrida stress the singularity of the event. To take a position, take part, and ‘produce events’ (Derrida 1994: 89) means to get involved in specific struggles. Politics takes place ‘in the singular event of engagement’ (Derrida 1996: 83). Derrida’s politics is focused on the calls that demand response/responsibility in words like justice, Europe and emancipation. Should we treat security in this manner? No, security is not that kind of call. ‘Security’ is not a way to open (or keep open) an ethical horizon. Security is a much more situational concept oriented to the handling of specifics. It belongs to the sphere of how to handle challenges – and avoid ‘the worst’ (Derrida 1991). Here enters again the possible pessimism hich for the security analyst might be occupational or structural. The infinitude of responsibility (Derrida 1996: 86) or the tragic nature of politics (Morgenthau 1946, Chapter 7) means that one can never feel reassured that by some ‘good deed’, ‘I have assumed my responsibilities’ (Derrida 1996: 86). If I conduct myself particularly well with regard to someone, I know that it is to the detriment of an other; of one nation to the detriment of another nation, of one family to the detriment of another family, of my friends to the detriment of other friends or non-friends, etc. This is the infinitude that inscribes itself within responsibility; otherwise there would be no ethical problems or decisions. (ibid.; and parallel argumentation in Morgenthau 1946; Chapters 6 and 7) Because of this there will remain conflicts and risks – and the question of how to handle them. Should developments be securitized (and if so, in what terms)? Often our reply will be to aim for de-securitization and then politics meet meta-politics; but occasionally the underlying pessimism regarding the prospects for orderliness and compatibility among human aspirations will point to scenarios sufficiently worrisome that responsibility will entail securitization in order to block the worst. As a security/securitization analyst, this means accepting the task of trying to manage and avoid spirals and accelerating security concerns, to try to assist in shaping the continent in a way that creates the least insecurity and violence – even if this occasionally means invoking/producing ‘structures’ or even using the dubious instrument of securitization. In the case of current European configuration, the above analysis suggests the use of securitization at the level of European scenarios with the aim of preempting and avoiding numerous instances of local securitization that could lead to security dilemmas and escalations, violence and mutual vilification.

Worst-case scenarios calculate for the sake of responsibility – mobilization is key to effective to political movements that prevent the worst forms of their impact
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Michael Williams, Professor of International Politics – U. Wales, Aberystwyth, ‘5
(The Realist Tradition and the Limits of International Relations p. 165-7)</span>

Moreover, the links between sceptical realism and prevalent post-modern themes go more deeply than this, particularly as they apply to attempts by post-structural thinking to reopen questions of responsibility and ethics.80 In part, the goals of post-structural approaches can be usefully charactised, to borrow Stephen White’s illuminating contrast, as expressions of ‘responsibility to otherness’ which question and challenge modernist equations of responsibility with a ‘responsibility to act’. A responsibility to otherness seeks to reveal and open the constitutive processes and claims of subjects and subjectivities that a foundational modernism has effaced in its narrow identification of responsibility with a ‘responsibility to act’.81 Deconstruction can from this perspective be seen as a principled stance unwilling to succeumb to modernist essentialism which in the name of responsibility assumes and reifies subjects and structures, obscures forms of power and violence which are constitutive of them, and at the same time forecloses a consideration of alternative possibilities and practices. Yet it is my claim that the willful Realist tradition does not lack understanding of the contingency of practice or a vision of responsibility to otherness. On the contrary, its strategy of objectification is precisely an attempt to bring together a responsibility to otherness and a responsibility to act within a wilfully liberal vision. The construction of a realm of objectivity and calculation is not just a consequence of a need to act – the framing of an epistemic context for successful calculation. It is a form of responsibility to otherness, an attempt to allow for diversity and irreconcilability precisely by – at least initially – reducing the self and the other to a structure of material calculation in order to allow a structure of mutual intelligibility, mediation, and stability. It is, in short, a strategy of limitation: a wilful attempt to construct a subject and a social world limited – both epistemically and politically – in the name of a politics of toleration: a liberal strategy that John Gray has recently characterized as one of modus vivendi.82 If this is the case, then the deconstructive move that gains some of its weight by contrasting itself to a non- or apolitical objectivism must engage with the more complex contrast to a sceptical Realist tradition that is itself a constructed, ethical practice. This issue becomes even more acute if one considers Iver Neumann’s incisive questions concerning postmodern constructions of identity, action, and responsibility.83 As Neumann points out, the insight that identities are inescapably contingent and relationally constructed, and even the claim that identities are inescapably indebted to otherness, do not in themselves provide a foundation for practice, particularly in situations where identities are ‘sedimented’ and conflictually defined. In these cases, deconstruction alone will not suffice unless it can demonstrate a capacity to counter in practice and not just in philosophic practice the essentialist dynamics it confronts.84 Here, a responsibility to act must go beyond deconstruction to consider viable alternatives and counter-practices. To take this critique seriously is not necessarily to be subject yet again to the straightforward ‘blackmail of the Englightenment and a narrow ‘modernist’ vision of responsibility.85 While an unwillingness to move beyond a deconstructive ethic of responsibility to otherness for fear that an essentialist stance is the only (or most likely) alternative expresses a legitimate concern, it should not license a retreat from such questions or their practical demands. Rather, such situations demand also an evaluation of the structures (of identity and institutions) that might viably be mobilized in order to offset the worst implications of violently exclusionary identities. It requires, as Neumann nicely puts it, the generation of compelling ‘as if’ stories around which counter-subjectivities and political practices can coalesce. Wilful Realism, I submit, arises out of an appreciation of these issues, and comprises an attempt to craft precisely such ‘stories’ within a broader intellectual and sociological analysis of their conditions of production, possibilities of success, and likely consequences. The question is, to what extent are these limits capable of success, and to what extent might they be limits upon their own aspirations toward responsibility? These are crucial questions, but they will not be addressed by retreating yet again into further reversals of the same old dicohotomies.

===[[#Negative-Stuff Against K Affs-Predictions Good]]Predictions Good=== 
Even if predictions aren’t perfect, we should still make them
Kurasawa, 4 – Associate Professor of Sociology @ York University
(Fuyuki, Constellations, Vol. 11, No. 4)

When engaging in the labor of preventive foresight, the first obstacle that one is likely to encounter from some intellectual circles is a deep-seated skepticism about the very value of the exercise. A radically postmodern line of thinking, for instance, would lead us to believe that it is pointless, perhaps even harmful, to strive for farsightedness in light of the aforementioned crisis of conventional paradigms of historical analysis. If, contra teleological models, history has no intrinsic meaning, direction, or endpoint to be discovered through human reason, and if, contra scientistic futurism, prospective trends cannot be predicted without error, then the abyss of chronological inscrutability supposedly opens up at our feet. The future appears to be unknowable, an outcome of chance. Therefore, rather than embarking upon grandiose speculation about what may occur, we should adopt a pragmatism that abandons itself to the twists and turns of history; let us be content to formulate ad hoc responses to emergencies as they arise. While this argument has the merit of underscoring the fallibilistic nature of all predictive schemes, it conflates the necessary recognition of the contingency of history with unwarranted assertions about the latter’s total opacity and indeterminacy. Acknowledging the fact that the future cannot be known with absolute certainty does not imply abandoning the task of trying to understand what is brewing on the horizon and to prepare for crises already coming into their own. In fact, the incorporation of the principle of fallibility into the work of prevention means that we must be ever more vigilant for warning signs of disaster and for responses that provoke unintended or unexpected consequences (a point to which I will return in the final section of this paper). In addition, from a normative point of view, the acceptance of historical contingency and of the self-limiting character of farsightedness places the duty of preventing catastrophe squarely on the shoulders of present generations. The future no longer appears to be a metaphysical creature of destiny or of the cunning of reason, nor can it be sloughed off to pure randomness. It becomes, instead, a result of human action shaped by decisions in the present – including, of course, trying to anticipate and prepare for possible and avoidable sources of harm to our successors.

Lack of certainty is a reason to prefer our impacts
Gooden, 95 – Professor of Philosophy @ the Research School of the Social Science
(Robert, Utilitarianism as Public Philosophy, p. 62-63)

Consider, first, the argument from necessity. Public officials are obliged to make their choices under uncertainty, and uncertainty of a very special sort at that. All choices—public and private alike—are made under some degree of uncertainty, of course. But in the nature of things, private individuals will usually have more complete information on the peculiarities of their own circumstances and on the ramifications that alternative possible choices might have on them. Public officials, in contrast, are relatively poorly informed as to the effects that their choices will have on individuals, one by one. What they typically do know are generalities: averages and aggregates. They know what will happen most often to most people as a result of their various possible choices. But that is all. That is enough to allow public policy-makers to use the utilitarian calculus—if they want to use it at all—to choose general rules of conduct. Knowing aggregates and