**Text: The United States Federal Government should implement a phased withdrawal of its ground troops in South Korea.**

**//Advantage 1 is Korean War//**

**The sinking of the South Korea’s ship makes conflict inevitable – retaliation will spark an escalatory war and failure to respond will only cause more North Korean provocations.**
**Bandow, 10** – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (4/18/10, Doug, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html]], JMP) 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">It has been weeks … defend its own personnel. </span>

**The status quo is fundamentally different than the past – the chance of a major miscalculation and global escalation is possible now in five different ways**
**Sanger, 10** (5/28/10, David E. Sanger, NY Times, “In the Koreas, Five Possible Ways to War,” 
[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/weekinreview/30sanger.html]], JMP) 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">USUALLY, there is a familiar … **found its customers.**</span>

**U.S.** **presence makes provocations inevitable and guarantees our draw in**
**Bandow, 10** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]], JMP) 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Suspicions continue to mount … in 2010 is bizarre. </span>

**The U.S. response to bolster deterrence will just increase provocations and make miscalculation more likely**
**Armstrong, 10 –** Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University.. (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” [[http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html]]) 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">On the other hand, … not start it anew. </span>

**North Korea** **might decide that it has nothing to lose in the status quo – making more miscalculations likely**
**Righter, 10** – Worked for the Far Eastern Economic Review and Newsweek in Asia, as development and diplomatic correspondent of The Sunday Times. (Rosemary, 5/25/10, Times Online, “It’s risky, but this time North Korea must pay” [[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/rosemary_righter/article7136464.ece]]) 

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">It is the lack … reached this danger point. </span>

**Also, North Korean aggression and nuclearization will cause intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,”** **[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]****)**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The international community is … the international community. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
Conventional weaknesses will force North Korea to resort to CBW use – either deliberate, accidental or unathorized 
ICG, 09 **(6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], JMP)**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">This report examines North … </span>
WMD attacks or incidents. 

North Korean bioweapon use would spread globally within six weeks – greater risk that nuclear weapons 
Levy, 07 **(6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]], JMP)**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Immediately following 9-11… can be developed within days. </span>

Impact is extinction 
Ochs 02 **– MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]]**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Of all the weapons … highest of all crimes. </span>

Withdrawing USFK solves – stops North Korea from probing U.S. weakness to draw our forces into a wider conflict. Air and naval installations will maintain power projection capabilities. 
Stanton, 10 **– U.S. Army Judge Advocate in Korea from 98-02 and practicing attorney in Washington, D.C. (4/12/10, Joshua, The New Ledger, “It's Time for the U.S. Army to Leave Korea,” [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/04/11/opinion/main6386737.shtml]], JMP)**



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Proceeding against the … with the correct result. </span>

//Advantage 2 is Succession Politics//

A massive power struggle is underway in North Korea – warring factions will facilitate several avenues for conflict 
Bandow, 6/9 **– Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (6/9/10, Doug, The Daily Caller, “Confronting North Korea: Who’s in charge?”[[http://dailycaller.com/2010/06/09/confronting-north-korea-whos-in-charge/]], JMP)**



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">We see through a … than Washington’s problem. </span>

Succession politics makes provocations more likely and dangerous and crushes the chance of effective engagement to rollback North Korea’s nuclear program 
Bandow, 09 **– Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (7/29/09, Doug, “Kim’s Heir,”**
**[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21908]], JMP)hb**





<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">President George W. Bush … unsettled and dangerous future. </span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Kim Jong Un needs to score some political victories to ensure a stable succession process – right now he is using military provocations to try and win support of the military </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Lee, 10</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">(5/27/10, Jean H., writer for the Associated Press, The Associated Press, “Analysis: Attack May Be Tied to NKorean Succession”, http://www.lexisnexis.com) </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Young, inexperienced and virtually … make his political debut. </span></span></span>


<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Even if the succession process goes smoothly, regime collapse is still inevitable which will destabilize the region </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">//Meyers, 10//</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; font-style: normal;">– professor at Dongseo University in South Korea (3/26/10, B.R. Meyers, “ North Korea on the Edge; If the regime collapses, will the rest of the world be ready?” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704100604575145672974954144.html?mod=WSJ_hpp_RIGHTTopCarousel)</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">[[#U20646647205Y0B]]</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">As for tensions … the least of our worries. </span>

U.S. presence and continued Chinese intransigence on North Korea risks superpower conflict 
Emmott, 10 **– Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” [[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece]], JMP)**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Try this quiz. You … it could really be war. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
//Advantage 3 is Russia//

U.S. military concessions toward North Korea are critical to break the deadlock in the six party talks. This will provide a framework to re-establish US-Russian relations, stabilize the peninsula, and allow Russia to become a major economic player in the region. 
Toloraya, 08 **– diplomat with the rank of Minister and Director of Korean Programs at IMEMO, the top Russian Foreign Ministry official in charge of the Korean peninsula, Doctor of Economy and a Full Professor degree in Oriental Studies (Georgy, //Asian Perspective,// “**
<span style="display: block; font-weight: normal;">THE SIX PARTY TALKS: A RUSSIAN PERSPECTIVE”, ProQuest)</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">The real root of … energy and industrial projects. </span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Cohen 10</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles) </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen: The real concern … , can connect these dots. </span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Independently, peaceful US overtures toward Korea is critical to break the deadlock in Russian-DPRK relations and pave the way for a massive expansion of renewed economic ties on the peninsula </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">Joo, 09</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt;">– Professor of Political Science at the University of Michigan (April 09, Seung-Horris, “Moscow–Pyongyang Relations under Kim Jong-il: High Hopes and Sober Reality”) </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trade and Investment In … Korea and Northeast Asia. </span></span></span>


These increased ties are key to creating a trans-Siberian railroad that revitalizes the Asian and Russian economies 
Yang et al. 04**- Yang is Professor of Political Science at Yonsei University in Seoul, Korea, and Director of the**
**Institute of State Governance and the Yonsei Leadership Center (Nov/Dec, Seung Ham Yang, Woosang Kim, and Yongho Kim, “RUSSO-NORTH KOREAN RELATIONS IN THE 2000S”, Proquest)**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Improved relations with North Korea … Moscow-Pyongyang relationship. </span>

A Russian economic collapse will trigger nuclear strikes against the US, provoke a Russo-Sino war, and threaten the world with an accidental launch 
David 99 –** Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University [Steven R., “Saving America from the Coming Civil Wars,” //Foreign Affairs,// Jan/Feb, LN] 

<span style="color: black; display: block;">If internal war does … against the United States</span><span style="color: black; display: block;">
</span><span style="color: black; display: block;">
</span><span style="color: black; display: block;">__**New affirmative (added March 4, 2011)**__</span><span style="color: black; display: block;">
</span><span style="color: black; display: block;">__**<span style="-webkit-text-decorations-in-effect: none; font-weight: normal;">
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Chaplains 1AC</span>**</span>**__


**<span style="-webkit-text-decorations-in-effect: none; font-weight: normal;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">There is a growing culture of militarized Christianity in the armed forces influenced by military chaplains. Evangelicals are converting and proselytizing.</span>**</span>****<span style="-webkit-text-decorations-in-effect: none; font-weight: normal;">
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Joyce, 2009 (Kathryn, Kathryn Joyce is a freelance journalist based in New York City, NEWSWEEK, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2009/06/18/christian-soldiers.html|__http://www.newsweek.com/2009/06/18/christian-soldiers.html__]]</span>


Ever since …"Christian").</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">An influx of aggressive fundamentalists has entered the military chaplaincy. Despite preventive regulations, military chaplains are attempting to proselytize native Iraqi and Afghan citizens. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Boston 2009 (Rob, Assistant Director of Communications for <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Americans_United_for_Separation_of_Church_and_State|Americans United for Separation of Church and State]]</span> and Assistant Editor of Church & State magazine since 1987 Citizens United for Separation of Church and State Hunting-souls-in-afghanistan-video-exposes-military-proselytizing-plan/)
The footage was shot ….in Iraq and Afghanistan.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw all United States military chaplains serving in the Republic of Iraq and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. </span>**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Contention 2: Advantages</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Advantage 1 is Holy War </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Military chaplains reinforce the concept of the holy war at the domestic and the international front</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Koehler 9/17/10 (Robert Koehler, an award-winning, Chicago-based journalist, is nationally syndicated writer, Our Own Holy War, September 17,2010, Tribune Media Services, <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://original.antiwar.com/robert-koehler/2010/09/16/our-own-holy-war/]]</span>>)
All the while, … reasons of national security.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Scenario 1: Terrorism</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Military chaplains and their reinforcement of holy war serve as strong propaganda for the recruitment of Talibans and terrorists</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Bouser 10 (Steve Bouser, editor of the Pilot, New Meaning to ‘Onward, Christian Soldiers’, September 29, 2010, The Pilot, <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.thepilot.com/news/2010/sep/29/new-meaning-to-onward-christian-soldiers/]]</span>>)
The military has always … it to them like this? </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Risks of terrorism are reaching a new high</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Ashton B. Carter is chair of the International and Global Affairs faculty at Harvard Kennedy School. He was Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy in the Clinton Administration, Orbis, Winter 2009, p. 47
No one can say …‘‘Long War on Terror’’ is apt.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Preventing terrorist recruitment is essential in counter-terrorism – serves as a prerequisite to specific programs</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Anne Witkowsky, U.S. Deputy Coordinator for Homeland Security and Multilateral OSCE Expert Conference, Astana, Kazakhstan October 14, 2010 “Preventing Terrorism: Strategies and Policies to Prevent and Combat Transnational Threats”; <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.state.gov/s/ct/rls/rm/2010/150068.htm]]</span>

We need to look … conditions of desperation.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Unbridled super-terrorism threatens human survival</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Yonah Alexander, Inter-University for Terrorism Studies Director and Professor, WASHINGTON TIMES, August 28, 2003, p. A20.
Last week's brutal suicide bombings in … national, regional and global security concerns.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Terrorist groups pose a new and credible risk for bioterror attacks</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Micah Zenko is a research associate in the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, ANNALS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF POLITICAL SCIENCE, September 2006,

Some, including myself, … now have customers.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Biological terrorism is the most likely scenario for global extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Richard Ochs, Chemical Weapons Working Group Member, 2002 ["Biological Weapons must be Abolished Immediately," June 9,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]</span>]
Of all the weapons of …. HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Scenario 2: The Crusade</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">The role of religion in the military not only reinforces the “clash of civilizations” but increases the religious divide</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Marsden 10 (Lee Marsden, School of Political, Social and International Studies University of East Anglia, Mission Great Commission: Conservative Evangelicals and the US Military, May 14, 2010 (last modified), Presented at PSA Annual Conference, Edinburgh 2010)

The twenty first century … domestically as the Religious Right have challenged that wall of separation. </span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Strong religious divide is the root cause of civilizational conflicts; makes all conflicts inevitable</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Wiarda and Bayar 11 (HOWARD J. WIARDA, Dean Rusk Professor of International Relations and founding head of the Department of International Affairs at the University of Georgia. a senior associate at CSIS and senior scholar at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington, D.C, visiting scholar/research associate at the Center for International Affairs at Harvard University, resident scholar and founding director of the Center for Hemispheric Studies at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, visiting professor at MIT, Georgetown, and George Washington Universities; course chairman at the Foreign Service Institute of the Department of State; lead consultant to the National Bipartisan (Kissinger) Commission on Central America, Thorton D. Hooper Fellow in International Security Affairs at the Foreign Policy Research Institute; and professor of national security affairs at the National Defense University. And MURAT BAYAR, professor at the University of Georgia, Clash of Civilizations, The Encyclopedia of Political Science, prepared with assistance by the American Political Science Association, 2011, CQ Press)
According to Huntington, the underlying … at least partly valid in the post–cold war period. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Military association with religion leads to bloodshed and interminable conflicts</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Munot 8 (Aditi Munot, writer for the Countercurrents organization, All In The Name Of Religion, November 29, 2008, Countercurrents.org, <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.countercurrents.org/munot291108.htm]]</span>>)

Most often in our world, … Isn’t it time we stop all this nonsense?</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Continuation of Holy War policies will lead to a self-fulfilling prophecy of apocalyptic results. </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">New David s., 2002 Holy war: the rise of militant Christian, Jewish, and Islamic fundamentalism, pg. ix; Library of Congress Catalog; )
Muslim fundamentalists …the coming of the End Time.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Advantage 3: Separation of Church and State</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Religion in the military is not an isolated incident – infiltration at the highest level</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Maasarani 2009 (Zeyad, InFocus News Staff Writer; July Vol. 5 Issue 6; “Embedded missionaries: One man’s fight against the military’s ‘crusade’”;<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.militaryreligiousfreedom.org/press-releases/infocus_crusade.html]]</span>)

When the Constitution’s protector … military as a missionary apparatus.” </span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Chaplains are increasing what it appears to be the fusion of religion and military </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Joyce 9 (Kathryn Joyce, former editor of The Revealer, a project at New York University, journalist for Newsweek and author of Quiverfull: Inside the Christian Patriarchy Movement, The Fight over Evangelizing Military Chaplains, June 19, 2009, Newsweek, <<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2009/06/18/christian-soldiers.html]]</span>>)
Among the "endorsing agencies" …-hanging fruit," says Weinstein. 4</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Separation of Church and State is critical to maintain democracy</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Brown 2008 (Larry Allen, Suite101 contributing author, Sep 20; “Separation of Church and State: why is it important?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.suite101.com/content/separation-of-church-and-state-a69569]]</span>)
Separation of Church and State … protects our religious liberty.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Democracy solves nuclear and biological warfare, genocide and environmental destruction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Larry Diamond, Hoover Institution, Stanford University, December, PROMOTING DEMOCRACY IN THE 1990S, 1995, p.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.carnegie.org/|http://www.carnegie.org]]</span>//sub/pubs/deadly/diam_rpt.html
Nuclear, chemical and … and prosperity can be built.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Contention 3: Solvency</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Withdrawal key to solve – chaplaincy allows terrorists to garner recruitment </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Rodda 2009 (Chris, Chris Rodda is the Senior Research Director for the Military Religious Freedom Foundation, September 19; Huffington Post; “Top Ten Ways to Convince Muslims We’re On a Crusade”; <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.militaryreligiousfreedom.org/press-releases/toptenways.html]]</span>)
6. Make sure that our … a force of crusaders.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Military chaplains in Iraq and Afghanistan violate the Establishment Clause of the Constitution – must abide by separation of church and state</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Cline No Date Given (Austin, Regional Director for the Council for Secular Humanism, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://atheism.about.com/od/churchstatemyths/a/GovernmentChaplains.htm]]</span>)
Framers' Intentions … than confide in the reasoning however specious in favor of a wrong one.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;"><US is critical to promote global democratic norms></span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Michael McFaul, Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution and associate professor of political science at Stanford University. He is also a nonresident senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, THE WASHINGTON QUARTERLY 28.1 (2004-2005) p. 157
There is a genuine correlation … and advance them.</span>



**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12px;">Contention preemption – (changes round to round)</span>**</span>**

</span><span style="color: black; display: block;">
</span><span style="color: black; display: block;">
</span>
.