=Affirmative= 
==South Korea 1AC read at Long Beach== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military presence in the Republic of Korea.** 

**Advantage one is CBWs**

**US military presence in South Korea makes North Korean provocations and preemptive strikes inevitable.** 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Chu,</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">2006 </span>**John S: NAVAL WAR COLL NEWPORT RI JOINT MILITARY OPERATIONS DEPT. 13 FEB  Military Exercises in Korea: A Provocation or a Deterrent to War? [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA463339&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]. Max

Finally, and most importantly, … DPRK continues to perceive U.S. military exercises as a possible reference for an attack on North Korea.56


**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">After the sinking of the Cheonan, more North Korean attacks are guaranteed. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">VOA News, 10</span>** (5/31/10, “Admiral Mullen: North Korea May Attack Again,”
[[http://www.eagleworldnews.com/2010/05/31/admiral-mullen-north-korea-may-attack-again/]], JMP)

WASHINGTON - The chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff… raised their fists in support of the government in its dispute with South Korea.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
**<span class="Underline">General Sharp agrees – the next provocation will be through asymmetric warfare. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Yonhap September 10</span>**, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">2010</span>**. Staff writer. Sharp calls North’s capabilities ‘worrisome’
[[http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2925843]]
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">North Korea’s provocations are “very worrisome” … or “asymmetric warfare,” the commander said. </span>


**North Korea has the chemical weapon stockpile locked and loaded – conventional weaknesses means CBWs are their only option.** 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">ICG, 09</span>** (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], JMP)

This report examines North Korea’s chemical … accidental or unauthorised WMD attacks or incidents.




<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
**The impact is twofold – first is chemical spread –** 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">North Korean CBW use would spread globally within six weeks.  </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Levy, 07</span>** (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]], JMP)

Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack originating … available for legitimate purposes and large quantities can be developed within days. 

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Impact is extinction </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Ochs 02</span>** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html] 

Of all the weapons of mass destruction, … then patriotism is the highest of all crimes. 



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
**Second impact is nuclear taboo –** 

**By law, United States will respond to CBW use with nuclear retaliation.** 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">NTI,</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">2010</span>** (Nuclear Threat Initiative) Produced by the Monterey Institute's James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies. May. Deterring CBW Threats with Nuclear Weapons [[http://www.nti.org/f_wmd411/f1b6_1.html]]. 

Sometimes one weapon of mass destruction (WMD) …. chemical or biological attack by a non-nuclear weapon state. 


**US nuclear response destroys the nuclear taboo—this makes worldwide nuclear wars inevitable.**
**Gizewski, 1996 **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">(Peter, Senior Associate, Peace and Conflict Studies Programme, University of Toronto, International Journal, Summer, p. 400) </span>****

Absolute and all-encompassing, the prohibition …. which may well include the prospect of more destruction to come.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
**Nuclear use will not occur without American violation of the taboo—Russia and China will follow suit**
Gizewski, 1996 **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">(Peter, Senior Associate, Peace and Conflict Studies Programme, University of Toronto, International Journal, Summer, p. 415) </span>** 

If the United States practiced nuclear restraint, …. if they don’t other states will not. 



**Once the taboo is broken, there is no chance of resurrecting it – the impact is wide spread nuclear use.** 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Schneider,</span>** **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">1999</span>** (Barry, Director of the USAF Counterproliferation Center at Air University, Maxwell AFB, Alabama, and an Associate Professor of International Relations in the Department of Future Conflict Studies at the U.S. Air War College., Future War and Counterproliferation. 
On the other hand, nuclear threats may have a major downside, …. Nuclear first use may set a dangerous precedent that was unkind to U.S. and allied interests. 



**Taboo is the key factor in preventing nuclear war—it suppresses all other impacts**
Gizewski, 1996 **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">(Peter, Senior Associate, Peace and Conflict Studies Programme, University of Toronto, International Journal, Summer, p. 419) </span>**

Recognizing that the prohibitionary norm is no cure-all … the globe for over five decades may come to an abrupt and tragic end.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
**If broken, even a limited nuclear exchange causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots causing extinction.**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10</span>** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]])

The international community is increasingly …. priority consideration from the international community. 
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
**We solve – only The US provokes North Korea into preemptive attacks — South Korea does not.**
Bandow, 2003**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"> (Doug, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Ronald Reagan, he is the author of Tripwire: Korea and U.S. Foreign Policy in a Changed World and co-author of The Korean Conundrum: America's Troubled Relations with North and South Korea, “Cutting the Tripwire: It's time to get out of Korea,” Reason Magazine, July 2003, [[http://reason.com/archives/2003/07/01/cutting-the-tripwire/1]]) Calum</span>** 

Placing even greater pressure on this unequal … allies should gaily commit suicide at Washington's command.

<span class="underline0"> </span>

**Advantage two is Regionalism**

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – Asian powers should develop a regional security strategy that does not rely on the U.S. – solves all conflict in the region.  </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Francis, 06</span>** – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” [[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]], JMP)

At the conclusion of the Second World War, the United States established bilateral military …. leadership necessary to create a strong, independent East Asian Union.
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>


<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span></span>
<span class="CharacterStyle1">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a clear sign of U.S. withdrawal can motivate sustainable regional security cooperation. </span></span>**</span>
<span class="CharacterStyle1">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;">Carpenter and Bandow 4 *</span></span>**<span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"> Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND ** Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">(</span>**Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="letter-spacing: .05pt;"> </span></span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline">The security treaties with the United States … U.S. territories in the central and west-central Pacific. </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span></span>
**Withdrawal ends South Korea’s obstruction to multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system in the region that prevents great power wars.**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Lee, 09</span>** – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org]], JMP)

Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security Cooperation in …. still maintains a loose form of the U.S.-Korea alliance.
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span></span>
**As a middle power, South Korea plays a key role in the shift to regional security cooperation in a way Japan, China and the United States cannot.** 
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Young 8</span>** - AsiaViews, Edition: 43/V/Nov/2008 South Korea’s Middle Power: Diplomacy and Regional Security Cooperation . Dr. Young Jong Choi, a professor International Relations at the Catholic University of Korea, was the keynote speaker at the //Asian Voices// series on October 2, hosted by the Sasakawa Peace Foundation USA in Washington, DC. http://new.asiaviews.org/?content=ger53rger567664&voices=20081120141855

As a ‘middle power, South Korea, can take the initiative … the lack of trust between Japan and South Korea, and insufficient domestic support.<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
**New East Asian challenges have emerged as potentially destabilizing factors – only regional solutions solve instability.<span style="color: black;"> </span>**
[[#Affirmative-Feng_5/10/10_[Zhu,_PhD,_Prof]]**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Feng</span>** 5/10/**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">10</span>** [Zhu, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, has served as research fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “AN EMERGING TREND IN EAST ASIA: MILITARY BUDGET INCREASES AND THEIR IMPACT”, May 10, 2010,<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia]]

If it is not yet an alarmist warning, the rise in military spending … management of contending security concerns should be a concern for every country in the region.


<span class="Heading2Char">**Regionalism prevents conflict escalation and nuclear war — bilateralism fails.**
**Swanstrom 5**</span> <span class="apple-style-span">[Niklas, *Program Director of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute and Silk Road Studies Program. He is also editor for the China-Eurasia Forum Quarterly. He holds a Ph.D. and a Licentiate degree from Uppsala University and a MALD degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, USA. Dr. Swanström's specialization is conflict management, security issues, and negotiations in Central and Northeast Asia, as well as Chinese foreign policy, “CONFLICT PREVENTION AND CONFLICT MANAGEMENT IN NORTHEAST ASIA”, 2005, [[http://www.isdp.eu/images/stories/isdp-main-pdf/2005_swanstrom-ed_book_conflict-prevention-and-conflict-management.pdf]]]</span> <span style="color: black;">

</span><span class="apple-style-span">After the end of the Cold War, states, … but more research is needed on this issue before any conclusions can be drawn.</span>

<span class="Heading2Char">**Asian instability causes global nuclear war.**
**Landay 2k**</span><span class="apple-converted-space"><span style="color: black;"> </span></span><span class="apple-style-span">[Jonathan S., National Security and Intelligence Correspondent, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, 3-10, Lexis]</span> <span style="color: black;">

</span><span class="apple-style-span">Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, … American jobs depend on trade with Asia that totaled $600 billion last year, according to the Commerce Department.</span>



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">
</span>
**Withdrawal from Korea specifically accelerates multilateralism and paves the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Espiritu, 06</span>** – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)

Can the U.S. live with the risk of an unstable Korean Peninsula? … to the U.S. The time is now for the Eagle to head home. 





<span class="Underline"> </span>



----

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]