[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">Plan-</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">**the United States should withdraw all military presence from Japan.** </span>

<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; min-height: 14.0px;">**Ob.1 The Trials of the past**</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; min-height: 14.0px;">**In the 1930s and 40s the Japanese army abducted countless womyn to use as “comfort womyn.” Despite the nature of this term, the womyn were used as sex slaves, dehumynized, and beaten.**</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; min-height: 14.0px;">**Horn in 97**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px; font-weight: normal; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;">//Dottie Horn, originally published in the January 1997 issue of Endeavors Magazine. http://research.unc.edu/endeavors/win97/comfort.html//</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;">__**Comfort women**__**//.//** <span style="font: 8.0px Times;">For ...</span>__**induce an abortion,"**__ <span style="font: 8.0px Times;">Berndt says.</span> </span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; min-height: 14.0px;"> **We learn more about this atrocity by listening to the story of Lee Mak Dal, one of the 200,000 womyn abused during this tragedy**<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman';">. </span></span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; min-height: 14.0px;">**Brown in 06**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;">AnthonyBrown,**JapaneseComfortWomen:OneWoman'sStory The account of Felicidad de Los Reyes //KASAMA// Vol. 9 No. 4 / July-August-September 2006 http://cpcabrisbane.org/Kasama/Archive/FelicidadDeLosReyes.htm**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;">In her 80s<span style="font: 12.0px Times;">, __**Grandmother Lee ...**__</span> of her drastic emaciation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; min-height: 14px;"> **Unfortunately, despite request, the Japanese government has never issued a formal apology to the comfort womyn.**</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; min-height: 14.0px;">**Tarczynski in 09**</span>
<span style="color: #ac7725; font-family: Arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;"><span style="color: #000000;">**Aug 13, 2009** </span>Campaign for 'Comfort Women' Apology Intensifies (ac:6-16-10)</span>
<span style="color: #ac7725; font-family: Arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;">**By Stephen de Tarczynski** <span style="color: #000000; font: 8.0px Times;"> HYPERLINK "http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=48065"</span><span style="color: #021f8c; font: 8.0px 'Times New Roman';">__http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=48065__</span> </span>
<span style="color: #ac7725; font-family: Arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 8px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; min-height: 14px;"> __What we're calling .... It side-stepped it.__ **"** </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;">**The bureaucratic nature of reparations for comfort womyn dooms them to failure. They victimize the womyn while abdicating the government of responsibility.**</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;">**Waterhouse 09**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 7px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;">The Good, The Bad, And The Ugly: Moral Agency And The Role of Victims in Reparations Programs Carlton Waterhouse* Associate Professor of Law, Florida International University, College of Law http://works.bepress.com/context/carlton_waterhouse/article/1003/type/native/viewcontent/</span>
<span style="font-size: 6px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;"><span style="font: 12.0px Times;">__**The reparations for**__ <span style="font-size: 7px;">...</span></span><span style="font: 10.0px Times;"> __**the atrocities committed.**__ </span></span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; min-height: 14.0px;">**Bureaucrats make reform in Japan impossible. Only the withdrawal of US troops will solve this.**</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; min-height: 14.0px;">**Einar 01**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;">Jan Einar Stromsodd, Member of the Norwegian Chamber of Commerce in Japan, quoting Chalmers Ashby Johnson is an American author and professor emeritus of the University of California, San Diego"The Decline and Hopeful Fall of Japan's Bureaucracy", November 26, 2001, <span style="font: 12.0px Times;"> HYPERLINK "http://www.janhoo.com/skole/university/polsci.html"</span><span style="color: #021f8c; font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman';">__http://www.janhoo.com/skole/university/polsci.html__</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8px; font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px; min-height: 14px;"><span style="font: 12.0px Times;">__**Japanese politicians appear ...**__</span>much easier to grasp.</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 14.4px;">**Ob. 2 The tribulation of the Present Structural inequities are encoded in our military agreements with Japan making violence against women not only inevitable but accepted without punishment.**</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">**Kirk in 08**</span>
<span style="font: 8.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">Gwyn **//Kirk//**, writer for Foreign Policy in Focus, edited by John Feffer, co-director for the Institute for Policy Studies.He is the author of several books and numerous articles. He has been a Writing Fellow at Provisions Library in Washington, DC and a PanTech fellow in Korean Studies at Stanford University. He is a former associate editor of World Policy Journal. He has worked as an international affairs representative in Eastern Europe and East Asia for the American Friends Service Committee, 03/14/08, Gender and U.S. bases in Asia-Pacific, Foreign Policy In Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">__**Military personnel are ...**__ flourished during the Vietnam War</span>

<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 7.2px;">*This evidence has been gender modified</span>

<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-indent: 35.5px;">**Dehumynization is the worst possible impact.**</span>
<span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px;">**Berube, 1997**</span>
<span style="font: 8.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;"> <span style="font: 12.0px Times;">(</span>Berube, David. Professor. English. University of South Carolina. “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side.” 1997. <span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman';"> HYPERLINK "http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm" \l "_blank"</span><span style="color: #021f8c; font: 12.0px Times;">__http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm__</span>.)</span>
<span style="font: 8.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 7.2px;">Assuming we are able to predict who or ...<span style="font: 12.0px Times;"> __**evil's most powerful weapon.**__</span></span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 14.4px;"> **The patriarchal oppression demonstrated by US military presence in Japan is the root cause of war**</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">**Von Werlhof in 07**</span>
<span style="font: 8.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">Claudia //Von Werlhof,// writer of many works in the theory of capitalism and patriarchy, Oct 20**//07,//** The Struggle for A "Deep" Alternative, Women and the Gift Economy. A Radically Different World View is Possible, Toronto 2007 (Inanna), pp. 139-153, http://members.iimetro.com.au/~hubbca/the_genesis_of_patriarchy.htm</span>
<span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal Times; margin: 0px;">__**Patriarchal society as ...** **maintenance of its egalitarian principles**__</span>

<span style="font: 12.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">**Rape will continue unless the US military is removed**</span>
<span style="font: 7.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;"><span style="font: 11.0px Times;">**Schrimer, 96**</span>-history professor at Boston University</span>
<span style="font: 7.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">(Daniel B., Monthly Review, Volume 47, Issue 9, Monthly Review Foundation, Inc., “Japan and the Global Policeman”, February 1996, accessed via questia.com, Questia Media America, Inc.) Massive</span>
<span style="font: 8.0px Times; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">As a democratic-minded U.S. ...<span style="font: 12.0px Times;"> __**be more such crimes.**__</span></span>

=Negative= 
Neg is the same as Marshfield JR