=**Trauma Aff - Wake**= 

**Plan Text: The United States federal government should remove any soldier from Afghanistan who has visited or inquired about staying in a clinic operated by the Combat and Operational Stress Control Program.**



**Idea 1- The goal in theater is "helping people function as best you can to preserve the fighting strength of the force". This war-fighting priority is reflected in the fundamental orientation of the Combat and Operational Stress Control program where all evacuation decisions are made.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Megan </span>McCloskey<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, staff writer, 9/14/</span>09<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> “Failing the stress tests? Pentagon is treating troops for PTSD, but experts say measurements are lacking” Stars and Stripes http://www.stripes.com/news/failing-the-stress-tests-1.94761 </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">But __in a vast ...__ Department of Defense. </span>


**Moreover, army psychiatrists utilize the most insidious manifestations of the Western Medical model; zombifying drugs including anti-depressants to keep troops on the front-line.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dr. Phil </span>Leveque<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, degrees in chemistry, biochemistry, pharmacology, toxicology and minors in physiology and biochemistry. He was a Professor of Pharmacology and University of London, </span>3/28<span style="font-size: 10pt;">/10, “Dangerous Drugs for Combat Soldiers: </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zombies on the Attack” Salem News, http://www.salem-news.com/articles/march282010/zombie-attack-pl.php </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">Anti-depressant drugs ...Victim Veterans successfully. </span>


**Western rationality seeks security and certainty even in the face of an inevitable, uncertain gap between the real and the world we know through language. This glossing over reinforces depoliticisation as the populace must submit to sovereign military rule in it's ambitions towards closure of society. We will argue that this is the exact same move of the pentagon to disguise the trauma of war with ineffective anti-depressants and half-baked statistics.**
Edkins 2003<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> Jenny Edkins, Professor of International Politics .at Prifysgol Aberystwyth University, She has degrees from Oxford , where she was a Nuffield Scholar, the City University , the Open University and the University of Wales, Trauma and the memory of politics, pg. 11-12, 2003</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">The uncertainty and... closed social order. </span>


**The swift reinsertion of troops after being treated for stress through a medical process is a prime example of how the state uses normalizing processes to cover up the trauma of war. Soldiers and the population they are removed from take on the barest form of all life: a tool for state domination and a symbol for the collective requirement for sacrifice on the alter of the largest goal, security.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Edkins 2003 Jenny Edkins. Trauma and the memory of politics, pg. 7-9, 2003 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">In both cases ... reformulation of community. </span>




**The specific manifestation of militarism inherent in commander's decisions to send soldiers back to the front line presumes that the populace is merely a passive recipient of power and control, guaranteeing life as perpetual warfare**
Giroux 4<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Henry A., PhD, Professor of Education at Boston Univesrity, "War on Terror, The Militarising of Public Space and the Culture in the United States, Third Text, Vol. 18, Issue 4, 2004. 211-221] </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Militarism in both ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> semblance of democracy.</span></span>


<span style="margin-right: 0.3in;">**And, the systemic impacts of the affirmative far outweigh any manifestation of international conflict. Prioritizing the event of war over resistance to the systemic roots of the war machine facilitates collective complacency and distracts attention from the broader effort to redress the harms of our never ending preparation for war. We’ll solve the terminal impact through our criticism of how the state uses security concerns as the justification for ignoring it's responsibility to the world** </span>
Cuomo__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, 19</span>__96<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. [Chris, J. War is not just an event: Reflections on the significance of everyday violence, __Hypatia__, Vol. 11, no. 4, pg. proquest] </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Philosophical __attention to ...__</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> connections among them.</span>__</span>


**Cuomo’s vision of militarism is nothing more than the pure exercise of sovereign power. Citizens are asked to sacrifice in the face of the insecurity exposed by a state bent on ensuring its continued survival. We are not given a chance to experience the trauma of the real because that would eliminate the state's stranglehold on legitimate violence as the populace becomes more aware of its disciplinary practices. Ultimately, the devaluation of life to it's barest of properties involves the state being able to kill without it being murderous, to destroy without being destructive, and to mobilize the population for those ends.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jenny </span>Edkins<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> 20</span>02<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Forget Trauma? Responses to September 11’ International Relations 2002 16: 243 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">First of all,... __September 11 – take place.__ </span>


**This logic of disposability towards the military and foreign civilians is the most insidious calculation a policy-maker can undertake, allowing for the value of lives to be reduced to zero. This is the zero point of the holocaust. We are not saying that these folks have zero value to their lives but rather that they represent the states ability to value your life as nothing and sacrifice it for some larger goal.**
__Dillon 99__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Michal Dillon, Professor of IR @ Lancaster, “Another Justice,” </span>Political Theory<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">, 04/1999, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 165) </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Economies of evaluation ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> __whatever exceeds measure."__ </span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Furthermore, the apocalyptic rhetoric used by the military and the state to justify these soldiers sacrifice is part of a larger social process whereby the populace is mobilized towards constant preparation for all out destruction. In this light, security concerns become the sole basis by which the state can justify every use of violence imaginable, even the world ending kind.**</span>
__Coviello 2k__<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Peter Coviello, assistant professor of English at Bowdoin College, </span>Apocalypse From Now On, <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">2000) </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.2in; margin-right: 0.2in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Perhaps. But to claim... __scarcely be done without.__ </span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>

**A most excellent ethical framework is care of the self – the individual’s manipulation of power relations for the purpose of self-formation, a delimitation of his or her ethical agency through an identification and reversal of disciplinary strategies. The soldier’s disobedience in the face of the disciplinary forces of the military complex is a recognition and transgression of its normalizing limitations.**
Bernauer and Mahon ‘05<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[James W, Professor of Philosophy and Boston College, and Michael, associate professor of humanities at Boston University’s College of General Studies, “Foucault’s Ethical Imagination” in The Cambridge Companion to Foucault Second Edition, edited by Gary Gutting] </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The explicit ethical ...</span> __a political force__.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>


**In spite of our challenge for more ethical relationships, the state, and possibly the negative, will try to naturalize militarism and violence by invoking its power to define reality through fear. Our responsibility lies in combining the critical pedagogy of the affirmative with calls for concrete political action like the plan. Only with this frame can we begin to resist the technologies of power and make the underside of militarism visible through political engagement.**
Giroux 4<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Henry A., PhD, Professor of Education at Boston Univesrity, "War on Terror, The Militarising of Public Space and the Culture in the United States, Third Text, Vol. 18, Issue 4, 2004. 211-221] </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.3in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in;">__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">As militarisation spreads...</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in the balance. </span></span>




**Finally, alternative policy options that find a way to reduce troops while justifying their desirability with catastrophic impacts miss the boat entirely. The basis of the 1AC ethic is a challenge to the sovereign’s management of the populace through fear and its articulation of subjectivity as capable of controlling and dominating alterity. The only way to challenge what Coviello refers to as the agencies of modern power’s presumption to act “on the behalf of the existence of everyone” is to prove that there are cracks in today’s given ontology, which we can exploit by embracing an ethics that lacks fullness or in other words, an ethics that can never be completed. This analysis is informed by Derrida’s notion of infinite decisionmaking, the iterability of always-already becoming other by refusing our place in the symbolic order. While some may argue this process disengages us from politics and political institutions, we posit that undermining sovereignty urgently pushes for the need to be engaged. Justice requires this of us even though it can never be fully “solved.”**
__Edkins and Pin-Fat 99__ <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> (Jenny and Veronique, philosophers, </span>Sovereignty and Subjectivity<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">, pp. 7-10) </span>

<span style="text-indent: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">As we have seen, ...</span> __relationship between them.__</span>


=<span style="text-indent: .5in;">Negative</span>= 
<span style="text-indent: .5in;">ask Corey Turoff</span>

==Consult== 

<span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Woshipping of individual rights pisses the IPUs off and forces them to kill your parents or eat your dogs along with forcing us to suffer in a hellish place for all eternity**</span>
<span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;">**Chloe 2005** [Chloe’s a woman’s cat, //Invisible Pink Unicorns Exist)//</span>


==Dillon 99== 
ZP of the HC
<span style="font: normal normal normal 12px/normal 'Times New Roman'; letter-spacing: 0px; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px;"> </span>
//<span class="s1">**Dillon 99**</span><span class="s2"> (Michal Dillon, Professor of IR @ Lancaster, “Another Justice,” Political Theory, 04/1999, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 165)</span>//