[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Trauma aff:
We open the debate with testimony from Meena, the founder of the revolutionary association of the women of Afghanistan.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify; text-indent: 9.65pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [“I’ll Never Return” Meena. Founder of the Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan. __With all our Strenght: The Revolutionary Association of the Women of__ __Afghanistan__. Page xv-xvi.] </span></span>
Our affirmative deals with our traumatic encounter with the resolution—and the trauma of military presence. Our first piece of evidence is about the implication of trauma and politics.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Edkins 2K3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jenny. Senior lecturer in international politics at the university of wales aberystwyth. __Trauma and the Memory of Politics__. Page 3-5 ] </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 6pt; text-align: justify;">__Events that give rise to what… the solidarity of the shaken’__. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
Advocacy statement:
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">It is here between silence and speaking that the resolution speaks to us. Each year we encounter a resolution from a community of our peers. It is meant to ground a debate into a set linguistic parameter and construct an ideal predictable and researchable set of arguments in order to create a stable debate. Each year we grapple with its meaning never touching the surface of the entirety of the resolution. We make it submit to our idea of how the story of a debate should be told by objective policy analysts. Against this we affirm the trauma of the resolution and speak the betrayal of our very community:</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in Afghanistan.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Against the idea of a perfect set of language games to affirm the resolution we assert the un-speak-ability of the resolution, the trauma of our encounter with the resolution. Our affirmation is a bearing witness to trauma and the inability to speak the reality of the world—this encircling of the trauma of the resolution is an attempt at a faithfulness to the different temporal dimensions that encircle trauma, it is a respect for difference and alterity within the resolution and is a solidarity with the stories unable to explicated on by the survivors of the current occupancy in Afghanistan. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
Our second bit of evidence indicates that testimony destabilizes the linear narrative of sovereign power. 
**Edkins 2K3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jenny. Senior lecturer in international politics at the university of wales aberystwyth. __Trauma and the Memory of Politics__. Page 11-16 ] </span>
__In the psychoanalytic account… social or symbolic order.__
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Our third piece of evidence is our role of the ballot card. We indicate that The role of the ballot is a choice between political strategies dealing with trauma. We argue that a ballot for us is a choice for the solidarity of the shaken, which accepts alterity and moves away from politics motivated by fear. </span>
**Edkins 2K2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jenny. Senior lecturer in international politics at the university of wales aberystwyth “Forget Trauma? Responses to September 11”. International Relations 16, 243. Page 245-248 ]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First of all, then…</span> __September 11 take place.__
The last piece of evidence in the affirmative indicates that the best reaction to trauma is to not to securitize trauma out of fear, but rather our affirmative re-orients ethics around alterity. 
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Bleiker and Hutchison 2K8** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roland: professor of international relations at the university of queensland, australia Emma: Doctoral candidate and tutor in international relations at the university of Queensland, Australia. “Emotions in the war on terror” __Security and the War on Terror__. Pages 64-67 ]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although scholars in the… drive conflict the first place.</span>

The belief in this perfectly safe world is an illusion and in order to sustain this illusion we instill the sovereign with the ability to kill in our name for our safety. IN this we are all stripped bare by the political entity, community, or society that asserts a power over our biological body. 
Jenny Edkins 3 "forget trauma? responses to september 11" international relations 16, 243. pg 245-48
first of all...september11 take place
=Negative= 
1nc
we read "those who walk away from omelas" and negate the resolution.
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**And so it is that we choose to walk away from—Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, Turkey.** </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://harelbarzilai.org/words/omelas.txt]]. The Ones Who Walk Away From Omelas. </span>by Ursula K LeGuin - from The Wind's Twelve Quarters </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Our argument is about the founding trauma of communities and practices of imagination, the story of the negative is a non-linear negation of sovereign violence. </span></span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]