[[toc]]
[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Vivian Ha & Dustin Meyers-Levy|Main page]]
==Generics== 


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Deference**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>==== 
Winter decision proves – judicial deference to military interests is high now
McCarty, 10**- <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recipient of the Jones Day Award for Best Researched and Summated Article (Richard T., “Note: Winter V. Nrdc: the Navy, Submarines, Active Sonar, and Whales - an Analysis of the Ninth Circuit Review and the Roberts Court Extension of the Military Deference Doctrine,” 47 Hous. L. Rev. 489, Spring 10, Lexis) </span>**

**<span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Roberts Court. </span>Prior to the__…__ __…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">strike us as a close question." </span></span>[[#r213]]**


Deference key to military readiness – judicial intervention destroys authority
Crittenden 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Judge on Supreme Court of Kentucky (Roger L, 3/5, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://162.114.92.72/opinions/2001-SC-000761-MR.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As early as 1953, the Supreme Court… …</span>__the legitimacy and authority of command ."__**


Readiness key to maintaining hegemony – conflicts go global without it
**<span class="Heading2Char">Spencer 03</span> (Jack, Senior Defense Policy Analyst @ Heritage, "Focusing Defense Resources to Meet National Security Requirements," 3/21, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg1638.cfm|www.heritage.org/Research/NationalSecurity/bg1638.cfm]]</span>)**


**Be prepared to fight with little… …immediately to aggression against America's allies.**



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Impact Calc</span>==== 

Heg outweighs - Gray 5 - it's in the COIN aff section, I'm not gonna post it again


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Disclosure Scenario</span>==== 


**Deference guarantees disclosure of nuclear secrets—that causes first strikes and nuclear terrorism**
**Green 97** **<span style="font-size: 6pt;">– </span>**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Associate at McNair Law Firm, JD Magna Cum Laude at Univ of South Carolina (Tracey Cotton, South Carolina Environmental Law Journal, 6 S.C Envtl. L.J. 137, Fall)</span>

__The deployment of nuclear weapons__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however… …</span>__to enforce federal law passed by Congress__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 63 [*145] </span>

**Extinction**
**<span style="color: black;">Morgan, 9</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">- Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">In a remarkable website on nuclear war… …</span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">misery and suffering in a nuclear winter</span></span><span style="color: black;">.</span>

====AT: Military Accountability Turn==== 


**No offense – democracy checks back any bad instances of deference (the tag can change depending on the scenario read)**
**O'Connor 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associate, Steptoe & Johnson LLP; B.A., University of Rochester; M.S.Sc., Syracuse University; J.D., University of Maryland School of Law (John F., Fall, 2000, “The Origins and Application of The Military Deference Doctrine”, 35 Ga. L. Rev. 161, Lexis Law)</span>

<span class="verdana"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, the military cases decided… …</span>__before the courts are called upon to intervene.__ </span>





===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Generic DAs-Hegemony DA - Greenhill]]Hegemony DA**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC - Generic</span>==== 


<span style="margin: 0in;">**The Obama NSS will maintain current military engagement---but further withdrawals would undermine military power** </span>
**<span class="CiteChar">Pletka 10</span> – Dianne Pletka, vice president for foreign and defense policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute, May 27, 2010, “Obama Must Match Rhetoric, Reality,” online: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aei.org/article/102106]]</span>**

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Secretary of State Hillary </span><span class="UnderlineChar">Clinton will… …</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">when it comes to military engagement.</span> </span>


**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forward deployed troop presence is necessary for effective power projection and balance-of-power maintenance. </span></span>**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calder 2007</span></span>** [Kent E., Prof. East Asian Studies @ Johns Hopkins U, Embattled Garrisons: comparative base politics and American globalism, p. 217]

<span style="margin: 0in;">Contrasting sharply to the Fortress… …<span class="DebateUnderline">and of <span style="background-color: silver;">regional balance-of-power rivalries.</span> </span></span>

**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sustained unipolar hegemony prevents multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict. </span></span>**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 2007 </span></span>**[Robert, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, Hoover Institution - Stanford U, in Policy Review, No 144,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]</span>]

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Finally, there is the United States itself. As… …r</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">eduction of American power or a retraction</span></span>

====New Unique Link Impact - LOOK HERE FOR A GOOD CARD!==== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Military strength is needed – any withdrawal, change in strategy, or shift towards offshore balancing causes great power wars – Dustin cuts such great cards </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goure 1/5/11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Daniel, Vice President with the Lexington Institute, “Unsettled World Won’t Let US Reduce Its Military,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.defpro.com/news/details/20969/?SID=3f7de7dc9a8343394bd7e1cfb97fd429]]</span>, dml) </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">The conventional wisdom</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the national security community </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">is that the United States must</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and will </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">reduce</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its expenditure on defense and hence </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">the size and capability of its military forces</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Defense analysts are trying to put a good face on this situation in speaking of frugal superpowers and leaner and meaner defense establishments. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">A few have argued that the United States must alter its foreign and defense policies so that there will be fewer, less stressing missions</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for a reduced military to perform.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">The last time the U.S. military contracted</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the defense budget shrank </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">was at the end of the Cold War</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Over the next five or six years, the U.S. military shrank by almost half, from eighteen Army divisions to ten, almost 600 ships to around 300, and from 28 fighter wings to 20. That legendary stalwart of a strong defense Dick Cheney, Secretary of Defense in the First Bush Administration, was responsible for canceling more than 100 weapons programs.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The defense decline of the early 1990s was based on two premises. The first was the need for a peace dividend in the wake of the recession of the late 1980s. The second was that with the fall of the Soviet Union there was less of a need for a large and capable U.S. military. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Colin Powell, opined that the United States was running out of enemies. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Many expected that the world after the end of the East-West ideological conflict was going to be less conflict ridden.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Remember such phrases as “new world order” or the “end of history?”</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">The reality was quite different from the optimistic vision</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The decade of the 1990s was bookmarked by the first Gulf War and September 11. In between, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">the U.S. military, freed from the responsibility to man the ramparts against the Soviet threat, found itself undertaking a wide variety of other missions</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from humanitarian relief and nation building in Somalia to maintaining no fly zones over Iraq and supporting the expansion of NATO. Measured in terms of the number of unit deployments that took place, the U.S. military experienced a four-fold increase in its utilization rate even as it shrank by almost half in terms of deployable forces.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">The result of</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the two </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">trends</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> mentioned above </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">was a hollowing out of the military</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In order to support force deployments, the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">procurement and military construction accounts were particularly hard hit</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. One former Army Chief of Staff estimated that his service had deferred some $56 billion in expenditures on maintenance, procurement and construction in the 1990s. Hundreds of billions of dollars of the rising defense budget post-2001 was spent to make up for inadequate investments of the preceding decade. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Even with the increases in defense spending</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> under Presidents Bush and Obama </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">the age of the force overall has increased due to insufficient procurement</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for such weapons systems as tankers, strategic bombers, fighters, armored fighting vehicles and Navy surface combatants.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Even in the relatively quiescent 1990s, the U.S. military found itself extremely active. If anything, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">the new decade will be </span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">even less quiet and stable</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">. One only has to point to the rise of China, belligerent regional powers</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such as North Korea, Iran, Venezuela and Russia, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">failing states</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> like Pakistan, Sudan and Ivory Coast </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">and rising non-state actors.</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At the same time, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">the U.S. is becoming more engaged in the world economically.</span></span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> The belief that the United States can withdraw </span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">even part way from the world</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">, engage in so-called offshore balancing or selective engagement </span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">flies in the face of</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the recent historical evidence, ongoing national interests and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">the structure of the extant international order</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In fact, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">the role of the U.S. military in protecting U.S. national interests is likely to increase as</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> erstwhile </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">allies</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such as Britain, France and Germany </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">spend less on defense. We may be well advised to engage less in certain missions such as nation building. But this only means the U.S. military will spend more time on others such as counter-terrorism. Nor can the U.S. military avoid</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the twin challenges of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">nuclear attack and large-scale conventional conflict so long as potential adversaries are acquiring both kinds of forces. </span></span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">The United States will have to go through</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the obligatory period of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">trying to decrease its spending in defense and its international military presence</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We will also see a short-term decline in defense stocks. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">But</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> smart investors – and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">smart strategists – would be wise to bet on U.S. defense for the long run. The world has no one else to whom it can turn.</span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Generic DAs-China Containment - Valley]]China Containment**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Generic DAs-China Containment - Valley-1NC]]1NC</span>==== 


**China’s trying to expand now – maintaining presence is the key internal link to check expansion**
**Payne 9/22** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Matt, junior majoring in Chinese and Economics at University of Wisconsin Madison, “Obama, it’s time to sink their battleships,” accessed at__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: blue; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dailycardinal.com/opinion/obama-it-s-time-to-sink-their-battleships-1.1640268%20on%209/23/10|http://www.dailycardinal.com/opinion/obama-it-s-time-to-sink-their-battleships-1.1640268 on 9/23/10]]</span>__, dml)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In recent months, </span>__<span style="background-color: aqua; color: black;">tensions between the U</span>____<span style="color: black;">nited <span style="background-color: aqua;">S</span>tates… …it comes to maintaining freedom of the seas. </span>__

**Chinese expansionism leads to Taiwan war – Presence is key**
**Alagappa, Senior Fellow East-West Center PhD**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">International Affairs, Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy Tufts University </span>**03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Muthia, “<span style="color: black;">Asian security order: instrumental and normative features</span>”, p. google books] </span>

__The U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span> __has__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">also</span> __intervened… …deter **<span style="background-color: aqua;">China</span>**<span style="background-color: aqua;"> without</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">isolating or</span> __<span style="background-color: aqua;">provoking it</span>.__

**Global nuclear war**
**Hunkovic,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">American Military University,</span> **09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>] </span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">A war between China, Taiwan and the United States</span>… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">will not be considered in this study.</span>

====2NC Overview==== 

**Evaluate magnitude first – no matter how low the probability is we must act to prevent Sino-Taiwan war – and even if they win probability outweighs, we still win that probability is high – star this card**
**O’Hanlon** adjunct professor at John Hopkins and lecturer at Princeton and Bush, 0**7** [Michael, “A war like no other: the truth about China's challenge to America”, p. google books]

War between China and Taiwan is a… …would sit out a China-Taiwan war.


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Russia Module</span>==== 

**And, Chinese Nuclear Launch activates the Russian Early Warning System**
**Kristensen** director of the Nuclear Information Project at the <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federation_of_American_Scientists|**Federation of American Scientists**]]</span>, **06** [“Report: Chinese Nuclear Forces and U.S. Nuclear War”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nukestrat.com/china/chinareport.htm]]</span>] <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Chapter 2</span> __we quoted a range for… …require a range exceeding 10,560 miles__ (17,000 km).

**Accidental launch**
**Rosenberg,** San Francisco Gate, **06** [Eric, **“**Experts warn of an accidental atomic war / Nuclear missile modified for conventional attack on Iran could set off alarm in Russia”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://articles.sfgate.com/2006-10-06/news/17316809_1_nuclear-missiles-norwegian-scientific-rocket-ballistic]]</span>]
__Russian <span style="background-color: aqua;">military officers might misconstrue a… </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span>__<span style="background-color: aqua;">launches are </span>truly under way or are <span style="background-color: aqua;">false alarms</span>.__

<span class="Cite">Only scenario for extinction</span>
<span class="Cite"> Bostrom, gannon award winner, prof at oxford, 02<span style="font-weight: normal;"> [Nick </span></span>Bostrom,<span class="Cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;"> Professor of philosophy at Oxford University, 200</span>2<span style="font-weight: normal;">, (<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>)] </span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A much greater existential risk emerged with…. …</span></span>we will encounter in the 21st century.



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC CCP Scenario</span>==== 

**Either China won’t attack in response to Taiwanese secession or they do and the attack fails --- either one crushes the CCP**
**Hunkovic, American Military university, 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In other words, the national security… …</span>**__country <span style="background-color: aqua;">and a possible overthrow of the CCP.</span>__**

**That causes a desperate attempt to hold on to power - impact is nuclear war**
San **Renxing,.** The Epoch Times "The CCP's Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War. Hundreds of millions of deaths proposed", 8/5/**05.** <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://en.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30931.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What, then, is the gist… …That is the main theme of the speeches.</span>


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Yes China War Wall</span>==== 


<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**Military confrontation can happen --- recent trade ties only risk confrontation**</span>
**Lieberthal, Professor of Political Science** and William Davidson Professor of International Business **at the University of Michigan, 05**[Kenneth, “Preventing a War Over Taiwan”, March/April, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://websupport1.citytech.cuny.edu/Faculty/pparides/lieberthal.pdf]]</span>]

**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">One of the greatest dangers</span>__**__<span style="background-color: aqua;"> to international… </span>____…confrontation to forces beyond its control.__

**And, w<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">ar over Taiwan is the only scenario for extinction ---- US gets involved. Prefer our evidence – it’s comparative </span></span>**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Tucker, professor at Georgetown </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">University, **05** [Nancy, “</span></span>Dangerous strait: the U.S.--Taiwan--China crisis”, p. google books]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the beginning of this new century… …</span>__the assent of the people of Taiwan.__

**And, if the US doesn’t get involved Japan will --- inclusion of US forces in Japan forces intervention**

**<span class="Underline">Hurd, Senior Reporter CBN News, 09 </span>**<span class="Underline">[Steve, **“**</span>Chinese Attack on Taiwan: War for U.S.? “, March 25th,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cbn.com/cbnnews/us/2009/March/Chinese-Attack-on-Taiwan-War-for-US-/]]</span>]
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">*extensively cites and references</span> </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dan Blumenthal senior director for China and Taiwan under Defense Secretary Don Rumsfeld Also, John pike, director of the Global Security Organization </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">China's Art of War… </span>****…__<span style="background-color: aqua;">growing indications that Japan </span>just <span style="background-color: aqua;">might</span>.__**

**And, Taiwan retaliates --- that ensures miscalculation**

<span class="Underline">**Hurd, Senior Reporter CBN News, 09** [Steve, **“**</span>Chinese Attack on Taiwan: War for U.S.? “, March 25th,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cbn.com/cbnnews/us/2009/March/Chinese-Attack-on-Taiwan-War-for-US-/]]</span>]
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">*extensively cites and references</span> </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Dan Blumenthal senior director for China and Taiwan under Defense Secretary Don Rumsfeld Also, John pike, director of the Global Security Organization </span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">Taiwan Vows Counterstrike… </span>**…**__<span style="background-color: aqua;">over Taiwan is simply too dangerous</span>__** to be fought.

**And, relations aren’t a check on war – they’re artificial – provocative action will immediately break them down and trigger war**
**Hunkovic, American Military university, 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]</span>] </span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">The situation </span>between China, the United States and Taiwan… …course of action **and a <span style="background-color: aqua;">recipe for disaster</span>.**__


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Link - Okinawa</span>==== 

**Specifically, the base in Okinawa is key to deter invasion of Taiwan**
**Chaffin 10/5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Greg, intern with Foreign Policy in Focus, “Okinawa and the Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: blue; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance]]</span>, dml)</span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">China has made</span> huge <span style="background-color: aqua;">strides in increasing</span>… …__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">such as the Senkaku Islands, near Okinawa.</span>

====AT: China Threat Con==== 


**2. China’s modernizing and expanding now – this ain’t no threat construction, this is real –other claims are merely hippy rhetoric and their authors failed history – their criticism is trying to deny the simple facts and avoid facing the music**
**Nyquist 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey R, brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy and the Chinese military, “Recent China Revelations,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2005/0701.html]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="hilite1"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">China’s war preparations</span> are deliberate, and… …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">Santa Claus isn’t a real person – and never will be. </span></span>

**3. The alternative triggers a war through Chinese misperception and miscalculation.**
**Christensen,** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">prof. of politics and international affairs at Princeton U, 200</span>**6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Thomas J., INTERNATIONAL SECURITY, Summer 2006, p. 81) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In the </span>Tragedy of Great Power Politics, John… … limiting trade and investment relations with China.



**4. Realism is good in the context of China – the PRC is a legitimate threat to security and realism is empirically proven in this context; their alternative uniquely leads to war.**
**Mearsheimer**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, prof. of poliscie at the U of Chicago, </span>**5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, November 18, </span>The Australian, “The Rise of China Will Not Be Peaceful at All”, lexis)


<span class="UnunderlinedTextChar">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">THE question at hand is simple and profound: </span>**</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">will… …</span><span class="cite"><span style="background-color: aqua; font-size: 12pt;">security competition</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> between Beijing and Washington.</span></span>__**

==Afghanistan== 

===TAPI Bad DA=== 

====1NC==== 

A. Uniqueness/Link – Stabilizing Afghanistan leads TAPI pipeline to be built 
**__Blum 9__** - (William Blum, January 7, 2009, “When in Doubt, Bomb Afghanistan - America's Other Glorious War,” http://www.counterpunch.org/blum01072009.html) 

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">"Stability", it should be noted, is… …Especially wedding parties (at least six so far). </span>

B. TAPI destroys Russia’s economy by taking away its energy revenue 
<span class="Heading3Char">Torbakov, 01 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- freelance journalist who specializes in CIS political affairs, holds an MA in History from Moscow State University and a PhD from the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences, was a Regional Exchange Scholar at the Kennan Institute, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, (12/21/2001, Igor, “TALIBAN DEFEAT REVIVES DEBATE ON TRANS-AFGHAN PIPELINE,” Eurasianet, [[@http://www.eurasianet.org/departments/business/articles/eav121201.shtml]] WX) </span>

__The country most likely to suffer from… …__<span style="font-size: 4pt;">is up to $60, notes the newspaper. </span>

C. Impact – Russian economic deterioration leads to a loss of control over its nuclear arsenal – this poses the greatest threat to the U.S. 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Steven David, political scientist, FOREIGN AFFAIRS, January/February 1999, p. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.org/19990101faessay955/steven-r-david/saving-america-from-the-coming-civil-wars.html]] </span>
<span class="Style4Char">If internal war does strike Russia, economic deterioration will… …that would follow a Russian civil war</span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">. </span>



===India DA=== 
====1NC==== 
<span style="color: black; margin: 0in;">India is increasing its presence in Afghanistan —Pakistan perceives this as a threat </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scheuer, 10</span>** [Michael Scheuer, author of Imperial Hubris and former chief of the CIA’s Bin Laden Issue Station, “Coming Nuclear Flashpoint,” The Diplomat, August 30, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/08/30/the-coming-nuclear-flashpoint/?print=yes]]</span>]

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">In their usual ahistorical manner,… </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">…Afghanistan. And </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">perception is always reality</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in;">US presence key to prevent Indo-Pak war </span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Scheuer, 10</span>** [Michael Scheuer, author of Imperial Hubris and former chief of the CIA’s Bin Laden Issue Station, “Coming Nuclear Flashpoint,” The Diplomat, August 30, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/08/30/the-coming-nuclear-flashpoint/?print=yes]]</span>]

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">All this sets the stage for tragedy… </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">…the bones of one Indian grenadier.</span> </span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in;">Independently, plan kills relations </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kaplan, 10</span>** – senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security (August 2010, Robert D., “South Asia’s Geography of Conflict,” www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/South%20Asias%20Geography%20of%20Conflict_Robert%20D.%20Kaplan_0.pdf)

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">He or she who sits in Delhi… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">on how we perform in Afghanistan</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in;">Key to solve prolif </span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Burns, 5</span>** – Undersecretary for Political Affairs (Nicholas Burns, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, 9-8-05, Congressional Testimony before the House International Relations Committee, “The U.S. and India: An Emerging Entente?”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nti.org/e_research/official_docs/dos/dos090805.pdf]]</span>)

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">A strong democratic </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">India is an… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">these programs have for both countries. </span></span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in;">Global nuclear war </span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cimbala, 10</span>** - Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State, (Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8)

<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">Failure to contain prolif</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">eration…</span><span class="highlight2"> <span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">…attack, thus </span><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9.5pt;">triggering a mistaken preemption</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span> </span>





===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Russian relations DA**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>==== 
**Relations high now**
**Thai Press Reports, 6/21** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“United States/Russia Senior U.S. Diplomat Praises Improved Relations With Russia,” June 21, 2010; Accessed online at LN]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Section: General News -</span> <span style="background-color: yellow;">The United States is… </span>…<span style="font-size: 8pt;">including trade and the high-tech industry. </span>


**Withdrawal kills relations and leads to US-Russia conflict**
<span style="line-height: normal;">Gordon M **Hahn** <span style="color: black;">5/21/200</span>**<span style="color: black;">9</span>** <span style="color: black;">senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California,</span> “U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism" </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: blue; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf%20p.%208-9|http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9]] </span>

<span style="color: black;">However, </span><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat; color: black;">there is some space between… </span><span style="color: black;">…can only benefit the region’s jihadists.</span> 6



**Relations literally solve everything**
**Graham 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas Graham, f</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">oreign service officer on academic leave with RAND in Moscow from 1997 to 1998. He previously had several assignments in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, including head of the Political/Internal Unit and acting political counselor. Between tours in Moscow, he worked on Russian/Soviet affairs as a member of the policy planning staff of the State Department and as a policy assistant in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Graham has a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University and a B.A. in Russian studies from Yale University.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> July 2008<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/080717_graham_u.s.russia.pdf]]</span>]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> What trends? Simply put, </span>the world… …to building lasting security economic structures<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Independently, US-Russia war is the only scenario for extinction**
Nick **Bostrom**, Ph.D. and Professor of Philosophy at Oxford University, March 20**02**, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards
A much greater existential risk emerged… …we will encounter in the 21st century.


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Coercive Diplomacy**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>==== 

**Hasty withdrawal from the Middle East destroys the credibility of coercive diplomacy with Iran – causes Iranian prolif**
<span class="Heading2Char">Gleis 8</span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(international security consultant and political risk analyst PhD from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, has hed positions at Harvard University, Columbia University, and the NYPD Counter-Terrorism Bureau, Joshua, "Needing Coercive Diplomacy to Deal with Iran", Huffington Post, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/joshua-gleis/needing-emcoerciveem-dipl_b_153658.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">American projection of power and its ability… …</span>__<span style="color: black;">the world's security depend on it</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Leads to multiple scenarios for extinction – draws in Russia and China** </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">S. Enders</span> **__Wimbush__**, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Senior Vice President for International Programs and Policy at Hudson Institute,</span> **__and__** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Christopher A.</span> **__Ford__**, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">senior fellow and director of the Center for Technology and Global Security at Hudson Institute,</span> **__1-14-10__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Hudson Institute, Perspectives Upon a Nuclear Iran</span>

__<span style="background-color: aqua;">Possession of nuclear arms may</span>__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> well</span> __<span style="background-color: aqua;">encourage… </span>…**<span style="background-color: aqua;">defin</span>ing <span style="background-color: aqua;">America’s role to everyone else</span>.**__


====2NC Overview==== 

<span style="text-decoration: none;">**Iranian proliferation causes a war in the region that draws in the US, Russia, and China – the three biggest nuclear superpowers – that’s Wimbush and Ford – and miscalc means quick escalation and the best case scenario has an 82% chance of occurring**</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;"> **Morgan 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dennis Ray, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies at the Yongin Campus in South Korea, Futures, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race </span></span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;"> __<span style="background-color: aqua;">Given</span> the **present day predicament regarding… <span style="background-color: aqua;">…are still potential enemies in a nuclear holocaust.</span>**__</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;"> **Turns case:**</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;"> **a) Obama pressuring Pakistan now – key to prevent nuclear terrorism and Pakistan collapse**</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;"> **IPS 9**; <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jim Lobe, writer for the International Press Service; “Increased Focus and Growing Pressure on Pakistan” December 9, 2009<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://ipsnorthamerica.net/news.php?idnews=2729]]</span> </span></span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;"> __Not only is Washington increasing pressure on Islamabad… …plan to send more troops to Afghanistan.__</span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;"> **b) Withdrawal from Afghanistan kills forceful diplomacy – Pakistan won’t cooperate – turns case**</span>
<span style="text-decoration: none;"> **IPS 9**;<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Jim Lobe, writer for the International Press Service; “Increased Focus and Growing Pressure on Pakistan” December 9, 2009<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://ipsnorthamerica.net/news.php?idnews=2729]]</span></span></span>

<span style="text-decoration: none;"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed</span>__, U.S. officials are currently… …to ensure that no such vacuum develops.__ </span>



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">AT: CT Solves</span>==== 

**1. CT doesn’t get around the link – any reduction is perceived as a full withdrawal**
<span class="A7">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Riedel and O’Hanlon, 9</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - *</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Foreign Policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Saban Center for Middle East Policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> AND **Director of Research and Senior Fellow,** </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Foreign Policy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at Brookings (Bruce and Michael, USA Today, 9/24, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,”</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: black; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Third, </span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: aqua;">we would</span> likely <span style="background-color: aqua;">lose our allies… </span>…most might try to beat us to the exit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**


2. Drawdown destroys our leadership capabilities
Kissinger, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Secretary of State (6/24/10, Henry, The Washington Post, “America Needs an Afghan Strategy, Not an Alibi,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/06/23/AR2010062302193.html]]</span>) </span>**

**<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet America needs a strategy, not… …us in Afghanistan as well as internationally.</span></span>**






====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**AT: Link Turn**</span>==== 



Adversaries will spin the plan as a lack of resolve and create the perception of the US as averse to casualties – kills credibility of military threats
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hakan </span><span class="Heading2Char">Tunç</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Professor of Political Science at Carleton University) Fall </span><span class="Heading2Char">2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While the reputational argument is weak concerning… …theory and practice, bordered on the neurotic.’’24 </span>**


And, a large, aggressive military posture is key to reinforce coercive diplomacy
Sachar, 3 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Senior Fellow at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi (B.S., July – Sep 2003, “ Cooperation in Military Training as a Tool of Peacetime Military Diplomacy”. Strategic Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 3, Jul-Sep 2003, Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.idsa.in/system/files/strategicanalysis_sachar_0903.pdf]]</span>)</span>**


**<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: aqua;">Military diplomacy has long been one of… …the ways to carry out coercive military diplomacy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span></span>**


==<span style="font-size: 120%;">South Korea</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Deterrence**</span>=== 

====1NC==== 

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The U.S. is taking a tough line to deter future North Korean aggression</span>**
<span class="Underline">Reuters, 10 (5/24/10, Jeff Mason, “Obama Tells Military: Prepare for North Korea Aggression,”</span>
<span class="Underline"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/05/24-6]]</span>, JMP)</span>


<span class="Underline"> WASHINGTON - President Barack Obama has… … adjustments would be appropriate," he said.</span>


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Withdrawal will wreck U.S. influence</span>**
**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kang & Cha, 03 </span>**– *associate professor of Business at Dartmouth, AND **associate professor of government Georgetown’s school of Foreign Service (May/June 2003, David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha, Foreign Policy, “Think Again: The Korea Crisis,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ituassu.com.br/asia_fp1.pdf]]</span>, JMP)**


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline">“The United States Should Pull Its Troops Out… … presence and abrogation of its alliance are not.</span></span>**


Will also cause Japan to nuclearize and embolden China against Taiwan
Dao, 03 **(1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html]]</span>, JMP)**


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Deciding if now is the time… … airplanes that they see in the region."</span>**


Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT.
Halloran, 2009 **<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]]</span>]</span>**


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">That anxiety has reinvigorated a debate… … huddled under the US nuclear umbrella.</span>**



Nuclear war
Cimbala, 2008 **<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]</span>**

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If the possibility existed of a mistaken preemption… … obsolescence or marginalization of major interstate warfare.</span>**


Also, regional states’ confidence in the U.S. commitment is key to East Asian stability and U.S. global leadership – the impact is rapid Japan remilitarization, Taiwan conflict and instability in India-Pakistan and Korea
Goh, 08 **– Lecturer in International Relations in the Department of Politics and International Relations at the Univ of Oxford (Evelyn, International Relations of the Asia-Pacific, “Hierarchy and the role of the United States in the East Asian security order,” 2008 8(3):353-377, Oxford Journals Database, JMP)**


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The centrality of these mutual processes… … so would appear to be much worse.</span>**


This causes great power nuclear conflict
Gray, 05 **– Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.carlisle.army/|http://www.carlisle.army]]</span>. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm)**







===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-South Korea-Relations DA 1NC]]Relations DA**</span>=== 


====1NC==== 

The OPCON transfer proves – relations and perception of them are high
VOA News, 6/27 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(6/27/10, VOA News, “US, South Korea Postpone Transfer of Wartime Force Control,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www1.voanews.com/english/news/asia/US-South-Korea-Postpone-Transfer-of-Wartime-Force-Control--97264784.html]]</span>)</span>**


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">President Barack </span>Obama has agreed… …</span>**a more capable alliance,**<span style="font-size: 6pt;">" said Russel.</span>**


Military presence is the cornerstone of our alliance – withdrawal would kill relations
Levin 4 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Norman, senior analyst at RAND, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA439630&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)</span>**


**<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">At a time when Western media are trumpeting… …would resonate throughout South Korean society.</span>**


Prevents South Korean prolif
Hughes, 2007 **<span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Christopher W., PhD University of Sheffield, 1997, Reader/Associate Professor, University of Warwick. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan,” January, Asia Policy No 3, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf]]</span>]</span>**


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Underline">South Korea’s history of considering its nuclear… …</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">enabling the reaffirmation of U.S. security guarantees.54</span></span>**



Escalates – global nuclear war
Cirincione, 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)</span>**


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia… …</span>use of a nuclear weapon since<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>45<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>**








===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-South Korea-Victory disad]]Victory DA**</span>=== 

====1NC==== 


War with North Korea is inevitable this year—the US will win now
Manasan 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – graduate student in the Master of Journalism program at Ryerson University (Althea, “Pressure to bolster North Korean leader makes war inevitable, analyst says,” National Post, May 28,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nationalpost.com/news/Pressure+bolster+Korean+leader+makes+inevitable+analyst/3085070/story.html]]</span>)</span>**


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">While some experts believe tensions… …no doubt that </span>North Korea would lose it.”</span>**


Presence is key to win – without it we can’t defend South Korea or bring in reinforcements
GLOBAL SECURITY.ORG 2010**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (“OPLAN 5027 Major Theater War – West,” April 27, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/oplan-5027.htm]]</span>)</span>**

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Pyongyang can credibly threaten the prompt destruction… …</span>resources quickly conducting over-the-shore operations<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>**




Failure to reinforce South Korea and win the war crushes American credibility – spills over to an entire destruction of hegemony
GREEN 5-27**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, writer and broadcaster, “North vs. South Korea: How Bad Could a War Get?” 5-27-2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/north-vs-south-korea-how-bad-could-a-war-get/?singlepage=true]]</span>)</span>**


**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It’s almost certain that… …</span>the signal being sent is most un-American. “Tread on Me<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span></span>**


Wars go nuclear
<span style="color: black;">Gray, 05 –</span> **<span style="color: black;">Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies, and Director of the Center for Strategic Studies, at the University of Reading (Spring 2005, Colin S., Parameters, “How Has War Changed Since the End of the Cold War?” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.carlisle.army/|http://www.carlisle.army]]</span>. mil/usawc/parameters/05spring/gray.htm)</span>**


**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 14.25pt; margin: 0in; padding: 0px;">6. Interstate War, Down but Far from… … motives for war: “fear, honor, and interest.”23</span>**





===MIB DA=== 



====1NC==== 



The Military Intelligence Brigade is key to counterbattery missions – the aff withdraws them
CUMMINGS 2004 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Colonel John Cummings, US Army War College, “Should the U.S. Continue to Maintain Forces in South Korea?” May 3,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423298&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">PROVIDE NECESSARY MILITARY TRAINING AND… …<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ROK training requests and equipment transfers.</span></span>**


Even if South Korea is awesome, their one weakness is their inability to take over these counterbattery missions
CUMMINGS 2004 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Colonel John Cummings, US Army War College, “Should the U.S. Continue to Maintain Forces in South Korea?” May 3,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423298&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The strength of the ROK defense structure… … missions from USFK to ROK responsibility.</span>**


Turns their CBW impact and magnifies the internal to our victory disad – North Korea wins
KOSU NEWS 7-29**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“U.S. Assesses Options In Possible North Korea Conflict,” 7-29-2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://kosu.org/2010/07/us-assesses-options-in-possible-north-korea-conflict/]]</span>)</span>**

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">War might begin with North Korea launching… …they had fired had hit Seoul</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” Green says.</span>**

==<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Japan</span>== 
===Japan Relations=== 
====1NC==== 
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">**Relations high now – but maintaining the alliance is key**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **AP 6/22/10** [<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5islkPj_84APsquFWNdqr2kuTwDQwD9GG68080]]</span>, U.S.- Japan Security Pact turns 50, faces new strains, by Eric Talmadge, he is an AP writer]</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **TOKYO — Uncertainty over a Marine base… … make major changes in the alliance."**</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **The perception of our presence is key to the alliance – any withdrawal in East Asia kills it**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **Auslin, 10**– resident scholar at AEI (Michael, 3/17/10, “U.S.-Japan Relations: Enduring Ties, Recent Developments,” House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and the Global Environment, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aei.org/speech/100130]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> Despite this litany of problems both real and perceived… … of other nations in the region.</span>



<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **The US-Japan alliance de-escalates hotspots in Asia – a weakened alliance means multiple wars go nuclear**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **INSS 2k** (Institute for National Strategic Studies – National Defense University. The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership//, October, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm]]</span>)//</span>


<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"> **Major war in Europe is inconceivable… … redefining and reinvigorating bilateral security ties.**</span>


==Turkey== 

===Deterrence=== 

====1NC==== 


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Turkey won’t proliferate now—US guarantee </span>

__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">NTI, 2009</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> (Nuclear Threat Initiative, “Turkey Profile,” August, http://www.nti.org/e_research/profiles/turkey/inde x.html) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Turkey is not known to possess nuclear… …a continued American commitment to Turkish security</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">. </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Withdrawal causes Turkish prolif </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Franklin </span>__<span style="color: black;">Miller</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, former senior career policy official in the Pentagon and the White House, George </span>__<span style="color: black;">Robertson</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">,former NATO secretary-general </span>__<span style="color: black;">and</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> former UK defence secretary. Kori </span>__<span style="color: black;">Schake,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"> senior fellow at the Hoover Institution in the US, 2/</span>__<span style="color: black;">10</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, “GERMANY OPENS PANDORA’S BOX”, Center for European Reform, http://www.cer.org.uk/pdf/bn_pandora_final_8feb10.pdf</span></span>umn-rks 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">There could scarcely be a worse… …develop or buy nuclear weapons of its o<span style="border: none;">wn</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Turkish prolif causes a chain reaction that leads to nuclear Middle East war </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Sokolski, 2007</span>__ (Henry, Executive Director, The Nonproliferation Policy Education Center, “What Nuclear Challenges Might the EU Meet?,” June 14, keynote address at “The EU Facing Nuclear Weapons Challenges” conference, http://www.npolicy.org/node/974) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">One country that might disagree with… …</span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">the prospect for nuclear terrorism and war</span></span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">. </span></span>

**Nuclear war**
**London 6/23/10** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Humanities at NYU, resident of the Hudson institute, and Outstanding Person, “Dark War Clouds Loom on Mid-East Horizon,” [[http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=37630]], dml) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> It is also instructive that</span> <span class="underline">**Syria… …the “weak horse,”**</span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">the one that is dangerous to ride.</span>


====2NC - Red Spread impact==== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS ARE KEY—RUSSIA'S ARSENAL CONTINUES TO GROW AS THE UNITED STATES CUTS DOWN ON TACTICALS </span>

<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;">Christopher **__<span style="color: black;">Ruddy</span>__**, Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, “Dangerous Russia,” NEWSMAX, December 17, 20**__<span style="color: black;">03</span>__**, <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">http://archive.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2003/12/16/232628.shtml.</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">However one describes </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;">this monster ...</span><span style="border: initial none initial; font-size: 9.5pt;"> ...vigilant</span></span> to other potential threats to our security. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">RUSSIAN NUCLEAR DOCTRINE AND STRATEGIC ENVIRONMENT HAS CHANGED—TACTICAL NUCLEAR WEAPONS ARE NOW THE LYNCHPIN OF DETERRENCE </span>

<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;">Mark T. **__<span style="color: black;">Clark</span>__**, Professor, Chair of Political Science, and Director of the National Security Studies Program, CSU-San Bernadino, “Seven worries about START III,” ORBIS, v 45 n 2, Spring 20**__<span style="color: black;">01</span>__**, ScienceDirect. </span>

<span style="font-size: 5pt; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -0.75pt; margin-top: 0in;">How would a START Ill-low treaty… …precisely those that are unregulated by any START agreement. </span>

<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;"><span class="Underline">**Nuclear primacy is key to deter nuclear war with Russia** </span></span>
<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;">**Nyquist 09 –** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(J.R., brilliant analyst of Russian foreign policy, 7/17, “Marina Kalashnikova’s Warning to the West,” accessed at [[http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html%20on%209/21/10|http://www.financialsensearchive.com/stormwatch/geo/pastanalysis/2009/0724.html on 9/21/10]], dml)</span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -.75pt; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">In other words, the West has already been outmaneuvered… …</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Putin was the master terrorist behind al Qaeda.</span>__ </span>

<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;"><span class="Underline">Only scenario for extinction </span></span>
<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;">**Bostrom 2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-Ph.D. and Professor at Oxford University </span><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Nick, March, [[http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html|www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html]]) </span></span></span>

<span style="margin-right: -.75pt;"><span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt; font-weight: normal;">Go look somewhere else on… …our wiki because it’s definitely there and I’m lazy.</span></span> </span>

==<span style="font-size: 120%;">Impact Turns</span>== 


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Bio-D Loss Good**</span>=== 


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0in;">**Subpoint A is defense – there is no impact to biodiversity loss**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> **FIRST, it’s inevitable – no moral reason to protect species**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Nassim Nicholas **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Taleb</span>__**, Distinguished Professor of Risk Engineering at Polytechnic Institute of New York University, and Distinguished Research Scholar, Said Business School, Oxford University, THE BLACK SWAN: THE IMPACT OF THE HIGHLY IMPROBABLE, 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">7</span>__**, p108-109</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">The stability of species<span style="background-color: lime;">. </span></span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">Take the number… </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">…moral responsibility for every endangered species</span></span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> **SECOND, it will be slow and without impact**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Julian **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Simon</span>__**, Professor of Business Administration at the University of Maryland, 2/16/**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">98</span>__**, “Are Humans Causing Species Holocaust?”, The Ultimate Resource II: People, Materials, and Environment, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.juliansimon.com/writings/Ultimate_Resource/TCHAR31.txt]]</span>, umn-rks</span>


<span style="font-size: 6pt; margin: 0in;">Starting in the early 1980s I published… …represent the gist of the the authors' arguments.)</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;">**Subpoint B is offense – species loss is good**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> **FIRST, it’s key to evolutionary change and long-term benefit**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Michael **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Boulter</span>__**, professor of paleobiology at the University of East London, 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2</span>__**, “Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man”, p. 170, google books, umn-rks</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> same trend of long-drawn-out survival… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">the extinctions of a whole selection of vulnerable organisms</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> **SECOND, biodiversity is bad – relying only on complex systems risks total failure**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Jim **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Heath</span>__**, December 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">99</span>__**, “Why Save Orchids Under Threat?”, Orchids Australia, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.orchidsaustralia.com/whysave.htm]]</span>, umn-rks</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">Some people say we can’t afford… …added diversity makes the biological world more stable</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> **THIRD, the impact is extinction**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Michael **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Boulter</span>__**, professor of paleobiology at the University of East London, 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2</span>__**, “Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man”, p. 67, google books, umn-rks</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">If biological evolution</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> really <span style="background-color: lime;">is a… …Extinctions are necessary to retain life on this planet</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC - Defense</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0in;">**And, even if some major species are lost, humans still survive – we can isolate ourselves from collapsing environments**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Lawrence W. **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Powers</span>__**, Professor of Natural Sciences at Oregon Institute of Technology, 8/9/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2</span>__**, “Letters to the Editor: Humans, Alas, May Survive the Next Mass Extinction”, The Chronicle of Higher Education, lexis, umn-rks</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">Mass extinctions appear to result from</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">vanish before our distant descendants' eyes.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> **More evidence – mass extinctions will cause recovery, not collapse**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Michael **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ruse</span>__**, philosopher and author, 8/24/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2</span>__**, “There is no flesh on these bones”, The Globe and mail, lexis, umn-rks</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Let me say straight out that this is</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">and can continue despite disruptions</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC - Offense</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0in;">**And more evidence – mass extinctions are key to preservation of life systems**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Michael **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Boulter</span>__**, professor of paleobiology at the University of East London, 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2</span>__**, “Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man”, p. 62, google books, umn-rks</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">Changing environments on a planet with</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">… …beauty and orderly <span style="background-color: lime;">complexity</span></span></span> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">of a Bach concerto.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> **And independently, biodiversity loss prevents war**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Daniel **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deudney</span>__**, Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Princeton, April 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">91</span>__**, “Environment and Security: Muddled Thinking”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, p. 26-27, google books, umn-rks</span>


<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Even<span style="background-color: lime;"> if environmental degradation were</span>… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">specialized industrial products, and surplus wealth. </span></span>



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Dedev**</span>=== 


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC Frontline</span>==== 


<span style="margin: 0in;">**FIRST, Sustainability – economic collapse is inevitable – history proves**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> Debora **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">MacKenzie</span>__**, writer, 4/5/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">8</span>__**, “Are we doomed?”, New Scientist, Academic Search Premier, umn-rks</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">DOOMSDAY. The end of civilisation. Literature and film abound… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">stop destroying our environmental support systems</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> **SECOND, Timeframe – collapse now is key to prevent extinction** </span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Glen **Barry**, Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development", 1/14/0**8**, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology”, Counter Currents,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm]]</span>, umn-rks</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Humanity and the Earth are faced with an… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is more fragile than it looks.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> **THIRD, Decline won’t cause war**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> Daniel **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Deudney</span>__**, Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies at Princeton, April 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">91</span>__**, “Environment and Security: Muddled Thinking”, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, p. 27, google books, umn-rks</span>
<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Poverty Wars. In a second scenario, declining living… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">specialized industrial products and surplus wealth</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC</span>==== 
**Dedev solves all conflict**

<span style="margin: 0in;">Ted **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Trainer</span>__**, Senior Lecturer in Sociology at the School of Social Work, University of New South Wales, 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">95</span>__**, The Conserver Society, p. 165</span>

<span style="margin: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">If the foregoing analysis is valid… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 9pt;">knowing no one has any desire <span style="border: medium none initial;">to threaten you</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span></span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Warming Good**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC - No Warming</span>==== 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">No warming now</span>

R.M. **__<span style="color: black;">Carter</span>__**, PhD AND Research Professor, James Cook University., “The Myth of Dangerous Human-Caused Climate Change,” Science & Public Policy Institute, July 20**__<span style="color: black;">07</span>__**, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://coalcandothat.com/pdf/1%20MythClimateChange.pdf]]</span>, accessed 4-24-08.

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Both the 8 and 100 year-long intervals… …not what is portrayed in the daily news media.</span></span> </span>



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC - Earthworms</span>==== 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">CO2 is key to earthworms</span>

CO2 Science Magazine ‘99 <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 4.5pt;">(Staff, “Effects of Elevated CO2 and Earthworm Casts on Grassland Plant Species,” 12/1/99, pg online @ </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.co2science.org/scripts/Template/MainPage.jsp?Page=BrowseCatalogEnlarged&sProductCode=V2N23B4]]</span><span style="font-size: 4.5pt;">} </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">As the atmospheric CO</span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">2</span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;"> concentration continues to… </span>____<span style="font-size: 9pt;">…</span>__<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">a better place for both plants and earthworms. </span></span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> B. Extinction</span>

Tompkin & Bird ‘99 <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Peter, and Christopher, no quals, “secrets of the sol,” taken from Microsoil, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.microsoil.com/earthworm.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">) </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Only <span style="background-color: lime;">where you find earthworms will you find… </span>…</span>__<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">renowned fertility of the Nilotic valley's soil.</span></span> </span>



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Middle East Instability Good**</span>=== 


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC Defense</span>==== 
**1. There’s no impact to Middle East war:**
**a) Instability won’t draw in regional powers – even the most powerful armies are too weak**
Matthew **Yglesias** (Associate Editor of The Atlantic Monthly) September 12 **7** “Containing Iraq”, The Atlantic.com

Kevin Drum tries to throw some water on… …hunting a possibly mythical terrorist organization.

**b) Empirics prove**
Steven A. **Cook** (fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations) Ray **Takeyh** (fellows at the Council on Foreign Relations) and Suzanne **Maloney**(senior fellow at Saban Center) June 28 **7** “Why the Iraq war won't engulf the Mideast”, International Herald Tribune

Finally, there is no precedent for Arab leaders… …conflicts from enveloping the entire Middle East.

**c) And, even if it does go regional it doesn’t escalate globally or go nuclear**
**Ferguson 6** (Niall, Professor of History at Harvard University, Senior Research Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford, and Senior Fellow of the Hoover Institution, Stanford, LA Times, July 24)
Could today's quarrel between Israelis and Hezbollah… …is clearly the assumption being made in Washington.

====1NC Ukraine Module==== 

**2. Middle East war is good:**
**a) Tensions are key to sustain arms sales to the Middle East**
**Neumann 95** (Robert, Journal of International Affairs, Summer)

More important for Middle East security… …conventional weapons is bound to continue for other reasons.

**b) Ukrainian arms exports are critical to economic recovery**
**Stack 3-17** (Graham, Business New Europe, “Ukraine’s defence sector apprehensive over pro-Russian foreign policy,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://grahamstack.wordpress.com/2010/03/17/ukraines-defence-sector-apprehensive-over-pro-russian-foreign-policy/]]</span>)

Ukraine’s annus horibilis of 2009 did not… …reliant on exports for the foreseeable future.

**c) Ukrainian economic strength prevents nationalism and civil war—impact is US-Russian nuclear war**
**Romanenko 8** (Yuriy, Ukranian political scientist, “Ukraine is heading for a civil war,” December 1,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.warandpeace.ru/en/article/view/30081/]]</span>)

Economic crisis will cause that new forces… …Ukraine may blackmail Russia as well as Europe.


====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; line-height: 20px; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Defense</span>==== 

**And, their evidence conflates insurgency capability with strong armies – no nation in the Middle East has the capability to wage major war**
Edward **Luttwak** (senior adviser at the Centre for Strategic and International Studies) May 200**7** “The middle of nowhere”, Prospect




The second repeated mistake is the Mussolini syndrome……of the once rumbustious Hizbullah ever since the ceasefire.



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> NATO Bad </span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC/2AC</span>==== 
<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">NATO is useless – extending the alliance only risks entanglement wars </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ted Galen **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Carpenter</span>__**, 3/30/0**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">9</span>__**, “NATO at 60: A Hollow Alliance”, CATO Institute, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10067]]</span>, umn-rks</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0px; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 0px; padding: 0px;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Although </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">NATO</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> has added numerous new </span><span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 9pt;">members…</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> …terminate this increasingly dysfunctional alliance.</span></span>





===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Imperialism Good**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>==== 


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**Imperialism is inevitable- history proves** </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Dinesh</span> **D'Souza** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">is a fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University The Chronicle of Higher Education. Washington: May 10, 200</span>**2**. <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Vol.48, Iss. 35; pg. B.7</span>

<span class="Style12ptUnderline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: none; background-origin: initial; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat repeat;">assault against colonialism and </span></span><span style="background-color: lime;">……</span><span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif;">figuring out whose ancestors did what to whom.</span></span>

**<span style="color: #231f20;">US imperialism solves more violence than it leads to – this is comparative </span>**
**<span style="color: #231f20;">Shaw 2 </span>**<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">Martin Shaw, Professor of International Relations and Politics, University of Sussex, THE PROBLEM OF THE QUASI-IMPERIAL STATE: USES AND ABUSES OF ANTI-IMPERIALISM IN THE GLOBAL ERA, April 7, 2002, p. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.martinshaw.org/empire.htm]]</span></span>

<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;"> What is particularly important to note is that… </span>__<span style="color: #231f20;">…look to violent means of change. </span>__

**Rejecting imperialism makes violence inevitable – this internal link turns their advantage**
**__<span style="color: #231f20;">Hollander 2 </span>__**<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">Paul Hollander, NATIONAL INTEREST, Summer 2002</span>

<span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;"> The beliefs of this aging subculture, however… …</span>__<span style="background-color: lime; color: #231f20;">violence</span>__ <span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">(Chiapas? Shining Path? Maoists in Nepal?). </span>

<span style="margin: 0in;">**Even if there are some problems with western development the long term benefits are key to any form of liberation politics** </span>
Dinesh **D'Souza** is a fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University The Chronicle of Higher Education. Washington: May 10, 200**2**. Vol.48, Iss. 35; pg. B.7

<span class="Style12ptUnderline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The descendants of colonialism are better off</span>… …<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Georgia,serif;">"liberty," "sovereignty," "rights</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">," and so on.</span> </span>



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Heg Bad**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>==== 


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**FIRST, Uniqueness – decline is inevitable – new powers, economic, military and political constraints**</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> Christopher **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Layne</span>__**, professor, and Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, Summer 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">9</span>__**, “The Waning of U.S. Hegemony—Myth or Reality?”, International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Project Muse, umn-rks</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">For an overview of trends that could affect international… …</span><span class="highlight2"><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">has been accustomed<span style="border: medium none initial;"> to</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> having since 1945 (ibid.). </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> **SECOND, Defense** </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">**a. Can’t block new powers** </span>

**__<span style="color: black;">Layne</span>__** (Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M) <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">‘0</span>**__<span style="color: black;">6</span>__**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[</span>Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to Present, Cornell<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> University Press (Ithica), p. 176-177] </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">A second contention advanced by proponents of… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">economic reasons (and, probably, </span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">for any reason</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">). </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">**b. Maintaining heg creates their scenarios** </span>

**__<span style="color: black;">Layne</span>__** (Professor of Political Science, Likely a Genius) **__<span style="color: black;">‘06</span>__**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">[Christopher, “The Unipolar Illusion Revisited”, International Security, Vol. 31, No. 2, p. asp]</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The United States enjoys no privileged exemption from the… …</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">indeed, is America's next grand strategy. </span></span>


**THIRD, Multipolarity is good**


<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">**a. Decline now key**</span>



<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Layne </span>__**<span style="font-weight: normal;">(Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M) ’0</span></span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">6</span>__ </span>
<span style="display: inline !important; font-size: 7pt; margin-left: 0in;">[Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to Present, Cornell University Press (Ithica), p. 158]</span>




At the same time,… offshore balancing grand strategy

<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">**a. That solves their impacts and prevents great power wars**</span>

__<span style="color: black;">Kupchan</span>__ **(Professor of International Relations @ Georgetown) <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">‘0</span>**__<span style="color: black;">2</span>__
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[Charles, The End of the American Era: US Foreign Policy and the Geopolitics of the 21st Century, Alfred A. Knopf, New York]</span></span> </span>

**<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: silver; font-size: 9.5pt;">NOTHING COULD be</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">… getting it right.</span></span>**



====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Defense</span>==== 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Decline inevitable – economy</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> Christopher **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Layne</span>__**, professor, and Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, Summer 200**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">9</span>__**, “The Waning of U.S. Hegemony—Myth or Reality?”, International Security, Volume 34, Number 1, Project Muse, umn-rks </span>

<span class="highlight2"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">The ascent of</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span></span> future major power war

===**Spark**=== 
====1NC/2AC==== 

2. Nuclear war is inevitable – widening culture gap, rampant proliferation, and 1NC impacts all prove 
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Joseph George **__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Caldwell</span>__**, PhD, 3/6/0**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">3</span>__**, "The End Of The World", http://www.foundationwebsite.org/TheEndOfTheWorld.htm </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">It would appear that</span></span> <span class="underline2">global <span style="background: lime;">nuclear war is inevitable</span>… …on the present course leads to a “dead” planet</span>. </span>

3. Collapse of industrialized society must happen now; any delay means extinction from environmental catastrophe 
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Dr. Glen **__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Barry</span>__**, Ph.D. in "Land Resources" from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, a Masters of Science in "Conservation Biology and Sustainable Development", **__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">1/14</span>__**/08, “Economic Collapse And Global Ecology”, Counter Currents, <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">http://www.countercurrents.org/barry140108.htm </span></span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline2">Humanity and the Earth are faced with an… …</span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">It is more fragile than it looks</span></span>. </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">4. </span>Delaying such limited nuke wars is bad – interia weapons coming that will cause extinction 
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Wayne <span class="underline2">**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Smith</span>__**</span>, the ultimate weapon, 4/14/<span class="underline2">**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">03</span>__**</span> <span class="reduce2"><span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://spacedaily.com/news/nuclear-blackmarket-03b.html]]</span></span> </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline2">While <span style="background: lime;">a nuclear explosion might destroy a… …</span>nuclear strike is threatened, but a country</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">? </span></span>

5. Allowing for nuclear war means humanity survives, solves overpopulation, industrial activity, and ecological catastrophe 
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Joseph George **__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Caldwell</span>__**, PhD, 3/6/0**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">3</span>__**, "The End Of The World", http://www.foundationwebsite.org/TheEndOfTheWorld.htm, **__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">gender modified</span>__** </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">So, for a number of reasons, it would… …</span></span><span class="underline2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif;">approach appears feasible</span></span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 5pt;">. What can be done?</span></span> </span>


====AT: Nuke War Causes Extinction==== 

2. Nuclear war survivable – even under worst case estimates 
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Brian **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Martin</span>__**, professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, June 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">80</span>__**, “Mobilising against nuclear war: the insufficiency of knowledge and logic”, Social Alternatives, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/80sa.html </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline2">Many people believe</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> a major </span><span class="underline2">nuclear… …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">epidemic infectious disease or social breakdown. </span></span>

6. Scientific consensus agrees 
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Brian **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Martin</span>__**, professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, March 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">83</span>__**, “The fate of extinction arguments”, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/83fea.html </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline2">According to</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> the published </span><span class="underline2">scientific… …</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;">reason to oppose preparations for nuclear war? </span></span>

8. Independently, Australia would survive – prefer the specificity of our evidence 
<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Brian **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Martin</span>__**, professor of Social Sciences at the University of Wollongong, December 19**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">82</span>__**, “The global health effects of nuclear war”, Current Affairs Bulletin, http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/82cab/index.html </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;"><span class="underline2"><span style="background: lime;">The</span></span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt;"> available </span><span class="underline2"><span style="background: lime;">evidence suggests that the… …</span>from fires, a negligible effect</span><span style="font-size: 5.0pt;">. </span></span>


====Methane Scenario==== 

Nuclear winter would block sunlight – this is key to cool the oceans. 
Stokstad 5 <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Erik, Reporter with Science Magazine covering sustainability, natural resources & other environmental issues, “77: Comet Caused Nuclear Winter,” published online January 3, 2005, <span style="color: black;">[[http://discovermagazine.com/2005/jan/comet-caused-nuclear-winter]]</span>, dml) </span>

__<span style="color: black;">The enormous meteorite</span>__ <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">or comet </span></span>__<span style="color: black;">that struck… </span>__<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">…</span></span>__<span style="color: black;">after the sun warms the surface again. </span>__



<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Warming ocean temperatures cause methane burps. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Benton 3</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Michael, head of the Department of Earth Sciences at the University of Bristol, author When Life Nearly Died, “Wipeout,” New Scientist vol 178 issue 2392 - 26 April 2003, page 38, <span style="color: black;">[[http://palaeo.gly.bris.ac.uk/Essays/wipeout/default.html]]</span>, dml)</span>

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">The extra carbon-12 was probably buried… …seems to have happened 251 million years ago. </span></span>


We outweigh on every question – best card in the round 
Ryskin 3 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, Illinois, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions” Geology 31(9): 741-744, dml)</span>

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">OCEANIC ERUPTION AS A CAUSE OF MASS EXTINCTION </span></span>
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">The consequences</span><span style="color: black;"> of a methane-driven oceanic… …</span>__<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">the nuclear winter scenario (Turco et al., 1991). </span></span>




===Threat Con Good=== 
====Shell==== 

<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">**A.** **The negative’s friend/enemy distinctions are purely utopian – others will inevitably view us as threats even if we don’t view them as threats, making it inevitable.** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: list 13.5pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris, essayist for Policy Review, 2004</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Lee, Essayist for Policy Review, Civilization and its Enemies, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1260214/posts) </span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: list 13.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">This is how mankind always thought of …</span><span class="UnderlinedTextChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> …about <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the way you see the world.</span></span></span> </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">**B.** **Their view guarantees annihilation – securitizing against even potential enemies is key to prevent extinction.** </span>
<span style="tab-stops: list 13.5pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris, essayist for Policy Review, 2004</span>** <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(Lee, Essayist for Policy Review, Civilization and its Enemies, http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/1260214/posts) </span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: list 13.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">This is why </span><span class="UnderlinedTextChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">all <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">utopian projects</span>…</span></span> <span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">…tell us how it will end this time.</span> </span>