=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 25px; line-height: 38px;"> Kritiks</span>= 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [[2010-2011 — Kinkaid (TX) — Vivek Datla & Zach Rosenthal|Back to main page]]</span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">Butler K </span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The aff's conflation of individual suffering with larger geopolitical goals leads to a calculus of necessary killing and endless war**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Dillon & Reid, Professors of Politics and International Relations, 2009** [Michael & Julian, __The Liberal Way of War: Killing to make life live__, pages 88-89]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">By such mechanisms, and according to such imperatives, liberal biopolitics must ultimately say who shall live...Its global assay or audit of life is thus an emergency audit.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Thus, our alternative - reject the affirmatives conditioning of life by embracing a politics that recognizes that all life is precarious. Questioning the framing of policies for those in povertty can change the material reality of real world suffering**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Butler 2009** [Professor of Rhetoric @ UC - Berkeley, Judith, Frames of War, p.21-26]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Perhaps most importantly, however, we would have to rethink the "right to life" where this is no final protection...rare to find contemporary instances of iolence that bear no relation to that political form.</span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> Gender K </span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The aff’s epistemological understanding of security is based on gendered threat construction—guarantees extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Tickner 1** [Ann professor at the School of International Relations USC. B.A. in History, U London. M.A. in IR, Yale. PhD in pol sci, Brandeis U Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">New issues and new definitions of security have been accompanied by calls for new ways of understanding security. Controversy about the meaning of security has been part of a more fundamental ...fits into broader structures of violence and oppression.45 Feminists—with their “bottom-up” approach to security, an ontology of social relations, and an emancipatory agenda—are beginning to undertake such reanalyses</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Nhanenge 7 [**Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Technology can be used to dominate societies or to enhance them. Thus both science and technology could have developed in a different direction. But due to patriarchal ... the "experts" we will continue the forward stampede. As long as economics focus on technology and both are the focus of politics, we can leave none of them to experts. Ordinary people are often more capable of taking a wider and more humanistic view than these experts. (Kelly 1990: 112-114; Eisler 1990: 3233; Schumacher 1993: 20, 126, 128, 130).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s gendered enframing of the world—simply the process of critique removes the ideological blinders inherent in policy-making. The permutation is doomed to failure b/c the starting point of the 1AC was profoundly militarized**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Shepherd 8** [Laura J. Shepherd, Department of Political Science and International Studies, University of Birmingham, “Gender, Violence and Global Politics: Contemporary Debates in Feminist Security Studies,” EBSCO]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">As discussed above, ideas about masculinity and femininity, dignity and sacrifice may not only be violent in themselves, but are also the product/productive of physical violences. We need to rethink the discipline in ways that will disturb the existing boundaries of both that which we claim to be relevant in international politics and what we assume to be legitimate ways of constructing knowledge about the world (Zalewski 1996, p. 352, emphasis in original).</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Overview</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Masculine forms of knowledge production cherrypick justifications based on a preconceived androcentric script, which means if we win the aff embodies this epistemological schema it’s a reason to be skeptical of their impact and solvency claims**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Tickner 1** [Ann professor at the School of International Relations USC. B.A. in History, U London. M.A. in IR, Yale. PhD in pol sci, Brandeis U Gendering World Politics: Issues and Approaches in the Post-Cold War Era]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Does the fact that states’ national-security policies are often legitimated by appealing to masculine characteristics, such as power and self-help, mean that certain types of ... others. Therefore, Walt’s aspiration for separating the “political” from the “scientific” is questionable. In other words, theories cannot be separated from political practice.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, interrogating the gendered assumptions of their advantage and solvency claims solve the aff—it exposes androcentric assumption that allow formulation of better actions**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Peterson and Runyan 99** [V. Spike and Anne professor of political science at the University of Arizona and professor of women’s studies at Wright State University, __Global Gender Issues__, 2nd edition, p. 14-15]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Gender issues surface now because new questions have been raised that cannot be addressed within traditional frameworks. The amassing of global data reveals ... this knowledge in our struggles to transform global gender inequality by also transforming other oppressive hierarchies at work in the world.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Links</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">'F' Word</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Their use of the “f” word is an independent reason to vote negative—it normalizes sexual violence and makes a culture of domination inevitable** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Schwyzer</span></span>**, Prof of Gender Studies,** <span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">9</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[community college history and gender studies professor, DPhil, Berkley (Hugo, “Penetrate” v. “Engulf” and the multiple meanings of the “f” word: a note on feminist language, 4 November 2009, http://hugoschwyzer.net/2009/11/04/penetrate-v-engulf-and-the-multiple-meanings-of-the-f-word-a-note-on-feminist-language/] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In every women’s studies class I’ve taught here .... these words construct images in our heads, in our culture, and in our lives. We have an obligation to rethink how we speak as part of building a more pleasurable, safe, just and egalitarian world.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Anthropocentrism</span>==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The aff’s anthropocentrism is highly gendered </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nhanenge 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Jytte Masters @ U South Africa, paper submitted in part fulfilment of the requirements for the degree of master of arts in the subject Development Studies, “ECOFEMINSM: TOWARDS INTEGRATING THE CONCERNS OF WOMEN, POOR PEOPLE AND NATURE INTO DEVELOPMENT] </span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In order to limit the increasing environmental degradation caused by human exploitation...</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">preference for something more enduring and abstract. (Plumwood 1993: 181)</span>**</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The aff views China through a gendered lens—they intentionally create a U.S./China binary to legitimize Western dominance </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Pan 4 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chengxin, Department of Political Science and Professor of International Relations @ Australian National University, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, //Alternatives: Global, Local, Political//, Volume 29, Issue 3, June/July]</span>**</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet, in a world of diversity, contingency, and unpredictability, which is irreducible to universal sameness or absolute...</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">that difference does not equate to threat.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Discourse shapes action—China becomes reality only as a self-created opponent to the West—hold all their authors suspect** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Pan 4** [Chengxin, Department of Political Science and Professor of International Relations @ Australian National University, “The "China Threat" in American Self-Imagination: The Discursive Construction of Other as Power Politics”, //Alternatives: Global, Local, Political//, Volume 29, Issue 3, June/July] </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Having examined how</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __the "China threat" literature__ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">is enabled by and</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __serves...__</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">explores some of the practical dimension of this discursive strategy in the containment perspectives and hegemonic ambitions of U.S. foreign policy.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Heg</span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Hegemony cannot produce global order—too many non-linear events will cause conflict—US attempts to impose order will usher in a new era of global catastrophe** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Foster 3</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[John Bellamy Foster is co-editor of //Monthly Review//, professor of sociology at the University of Oregon 2k3, “The new Age of Imperialism,” Monthly Review 55.3]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it is clear that in the present period of </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">global </span>**<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">hegemon<span style="border: none;">ic imperialism...</span></span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">strategy of the American ruling class to expand </span>__**<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">the American Empire cannot </span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">possibly </span>__**<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">succeed </span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in the long run, </span>__**<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">and will prove to be</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> its own-we hope not </span>__**<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">the world's</span></span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">--</span>__**<span class="CHighlight"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">undoing</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Epistemology First</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Our epistemology args call into question every answer they made**—their objective understandings of the world beg the question of the speaker </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Christensen 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [MS in sociology BS in sociology from State U of NY, Magna Cum Laude. MS in sociology, U Wisconsin-Madison. PhD expected in Spring 2010 Wendy, “Cowboy of the World? Gender Discourse and the Iraq War Debate,” http://www.ssc.wisc.edu/~mferree/documents/ChristensenFerree.pdf]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the spring of 2002, the Bush Administration began publicly to discuss the possibility...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">more likely than others to have a less reasoned debate.</span></span>




===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC Positive Peace</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The aff’s focus on warfare and interstate conflict as events marginalize movements for true peace and relegate extra-state violence to the margins of international relations**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Sandy & Perkins 2** [Leo R. veteran of the U.S. Navy and an active member of Veterans for Peace, Inc., co-founder of Peace Studies at Plymouth State College, Ray; Teaches philosophy at Plymouth State College, The Nature of Peace and Its Implications for Peace Education”, Online journal of peace and conflict resolution, Issue 4.2, Spring 02, http://www.trinstitute.org/ojpcr/4_2natp.htm]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The peace process additionally must … __to fester and erupt later__.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Structural violence o/w**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Hintjens 7** [Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, “MDF Understanding Development Better,” http://udb.global-connections.nl/sites/udb.global-connections.nl/files/file/2923317.051%20-%20Position%20Paper%20Helen%20Hintjens.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian … neither natural nor inevitable”, p. 301 (Prontzos).</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC AT Framework</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Consideration of gender binaries is a prerequisite in the context of military policy— simply the alt’s questioning creates __better policy__—also this means the alt solves the aff**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Cohn et al 5** [Carol Cohn (Director of the Consortium on Gender, Security, and Human Rights), Felicity Hill (Peace and Security Adviser to the United Nations Development Fund for Women), and Sara Ruddick (Professor of philosophy and women's studies at Eugene Lang College, The New School for Social Research), “The Relevance of Gender for Eliminating Weapons of Mass Destruction”, RCB]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This story is not simply about one individual, his feelings ....a charged and masculinised context, it becomes extraordinarily difficult to develop and advocate other forms of security policy.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**And, you are not a policy-maker—pretending you are absolves of individual responsibility—ensures the aff’s impacts are inevitable and is an __independent reason to vote neg__**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Kappeler 95<span style="color: black;"> (</span>**<span style="color: black;">Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">We are the war’ does not mean that the responsibility for a war is shared collectively and diffusely by an entire society which would be equivalent to ... their world vis a vis their practices, skills, habits, customs, and so forth. Humanism contributes to this danger insofar as it fosters the illusion that technology is the result of a collective human choice and therefore subject to human control. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.questiaschool.com/read/108740194|12]]</span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC AT Perm</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The perm is the worst form of masculine violence—it simply “adds feminine criticism” as an afterthought—this naturalized the gendered parts of the plan as acceptable—that’s Shepherd—and,**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Peterson 4** [V. SPIKE PETERSON is an associate professor in the Department of Political Science with courtesy appointments in Women’s Studies, Comparative Cultural and Literary Studies, and International Studies at the University of Arizona, “Feminist Theories Within, Invisible To, and Beyond IR,” Brown Journal of World Affairs WINTER / SPRING 2004 • VOLUME X, ISSUE 2]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Attempts to rectify the systematic exclusion of women and the denigration of the feminine constitute a second project: correcting androcentric bias by adding women and their experiences to existing frameworks. To focus on women’s lives and private sphere activities involves new ... attempt to answer these questions, and in the process shed additional light on the questions posed by the editors.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The perm will get coopted—dominant IR will push the criticism to the fringes—this does not mean the alt doesn’t solve—it means resistance must occur in academic spaces outside of mainstraim IR**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Peterson 4** [V. SPIKE PETERSON is an associate professor in the Department of Political Science with courtesy appointments in Women’s Studies, Comparative Cultural and Literary Studies, and International Studies at the University of Arizona, “Feminist Theories Within, Invisible To, and Beyond IR,” Brown Journal of World Affairs WINTER / SPRING 2004 • VOLUME X, ISSUE 2]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Moreover, the theory and practice of IR is dominated by men who engage in and study masculinized activities, and do so through androcentric lenses. As already ...I believe that the discipline’s resistance to self-reflection and systemic, transformative critique(s) has impoverished the development of IR theory. In contrast, feminist theories ‘beyond IR’ continue to develop, even flourish, and to have significant effects on social theory (not in contrast to but) as practice.</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC AT Realism Inevitable</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Alternative solves - realism is only possible in a hyper masculine framework**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Peterson 2K** [V Spike, Associate Professor of Political Science @ Arizona, SAIS Review, 20.2, rereading public and private: the dichotomy that is not one, project muse]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In addition, relegating womyn to an invisible private sphere lends authority and legitimacy to excluding womyn from political leadership, military activities, ... only reproduces hierarchical assumptions conceptually but also institutionalizes hierarchy in material practices.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Try or die—adhering to inevitability of realism makes war and violence inevitable**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Blanchard 3** [Eric M. Blanchard, PhD Candidate in the School of International. Relations at the University of Southern California, “Gender, International Relations, and the Development of Feminist Security Theory,” Signs, Vol. 28, No. 4 (Summer, 2003), pp. 1289-1312 Jstor]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Tickner’s book in particular presents an early feminist critique of the realist tradition and the first step to evaluating prevalent notions of security from ... that feminist and peace research projects be merged, Sylvester (1987) warns that such a merger may obscure the diversity of womyn’s different relationships with peace seen, for example, between the mother and the womyn warrior.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**It’s not inevitable**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Grondin 4** [David, master of pol sci and PHD of political studies @ U of Ottowa “(Re)Writing the “National Security State”: How and Why Realists (Re)Built the(ir) Cold War,” http://www.er.uqam.ca/nobel/ieim/IMG/pdf/rewriting_national_security_state.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">In explaining national security conduct, realist discourses serve the violent purposes of the state, as well as legitimizing its actions and reinforcing its hegemony. ... need to be kept in mind in order to assess unipolarity accurately” (Brooks and Wohlforth, 2002: 30).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Passive acceptance of realism destroys VTL—it’s not inevitable and we should challenge it**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Ayotte & Husain 5** [*Kevin J. Ayotte, Assistant Professor in the Department of Communication at the California State University, Mary E. Husain, Lecturer in the Department of Communication at the California State University, “Securing Afghan Womyn: Neocolonialism, Epistemic Violence, and the Rhetoric of the Veil,” NWSA Journal 17.3 (2005) 112-133, Muse]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The concept of, and a certain respect for, irreducible difference upon which deconstruction and much of postcolonial theory is founded have often been ... apt for engaging this theoretical divide as it brings to the forefront the intimate relationship between discursive representation and material conditions.</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">2NC AT Realism Inevitable (Thayer)</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Their biological realism arguments put the cart before the horse—they cherrypick scienice to fit preconceived models—the alt solves by including cultural factors that change their incorrect interpretations of biology**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Busser 6** [Mark, Masters candidate at NYU. “The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations” http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Unfortunately for Bradley Thayer, evolutionary arguments do not provide a simple and incontestable ontological and epistemological foundations for revitalized realism... Perhaps the security long sought after in international relations will come not from making societies secure from difference, but making difference secure within and between states.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT Essentialism</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">T/ Essentializing gender categories key to coalitions to resist injustices</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Anderson 9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Prof of women’s studies & philosoph @ Michigan, “Feminist Epistemology and Philosophy of Science”]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Criticisms of Feminist Postmodernism. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Both </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">key </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">features of feminist ...</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to be an inescapable consequence of social differentiation and embodiment**.**</span></span>


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> Cap K </span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">1NC v1</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The affirmative is interpassivity—it serves to challenge the system, while preserving it to benefit and ensure the stability of global capitalism.**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Zizek 02**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">—Professor of Philosophy @ Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana [Slavoj, “Revolution at the Gates”, pg 167-172]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The problem lies …. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">the global market</span></span><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">.</span></span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Our alternative is to withdraw belief from the ideology of capital. Disbelief in the power of the system collapses its existence—roadmaps are irrelevant—negativity opens the path to something new**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Johnston 04**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">—Department of Philosophy @ University of New Mexico [Adrian, The Cynic’s Fetish: Slavoj Zizek and the Dynamics of Belief,” December, International Journal of Zizek Studies, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.zizekstudies.org/index.php/ijzs/article/view/8/24]]</span>]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">On the basis of Lacanian … I choose fetishism.”).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**In the context of the affirmative, this means to do nothing. Refusal to take action breaks down the pseudo-activity that maintains capitalism and steers away from past Communist failures**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Zizek 08**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">—Senior Research @ Institute for Social Studies-Ljubljana [Slavoj, Violence, p. 207-217]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mutatis mutandis, the …. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">violent thing to do.</span>__</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC v2</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Capitalism is collapsing now. Only by realizing that the world is also adopting a revolutionary mindset can we create a society outside of capitalism. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Zizek 04<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">—Professor of Philosophy @ Institute for Sociology in Ljubljana [Slavoj, “Revolution at the Gates”, p. 259-260] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As Deleuze saw very clearly, we ...</span> __immediate index of <span style="background: gray;">its own truth</span>.__</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The affirmative is interpassivity—it serves to challenge the system, while preserving it to benefit and ensure the stability of global capitalism. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Zizek 02**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">—Professor of Philosophy @ Institute for Sociology, Ljubljana [Slavoj, “Revolution at the Gates”, pg 167-172] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The problem lies in the further implicit qualifications which </span><span class="underline"> ...accepted <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">meaning, multiculturalism perfectly fits the logic of the global market</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Capitalism makes warfare inevitable—the military industrial complex and recourse wars </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Choudry 08<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">– Researcher for Centre for Research on Globalization, Assistant Professor of Public and Social Affairs @ Concordia University, Associate Fellow of Developing-Area Studies @ McGill University [Aziz, The Military-Industrial Complex: Impacts on the Third World, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=11361] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Military-Industrial Complex and Impacts on the Third World ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> levels of military spending remains alive and well.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Our alternative is to withdraw belief from the ideology of capital. Disbelief in the power of the system collapses its existence—roadmaps are irrelevant—negativity opens the path to something new**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Johnston 04**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">—Department of Philosophy @ University of New Mexico [Adrian, The Cynic’s Fetish: Slavoj Zizek and the Dynamics of Belief,” December, International Journal of Zizek Studies, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.zizekstudies.org/index.php/ijzs/article/view/8/24]]</span>]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">On the basis of Lacanian … I choose fetishism.”).</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**In the context of the affirmative, this means to do nothing. Refusal to take action breaks down the pseudo-activity that maintains capitalism and steers away from past Communist failures**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Zizek 08**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">—Senior Research @ Institute for Social Studies-Ljubljana [Slavoj, Violence, p. 207-217]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mutatis mutandis, the …. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: gray; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">violent thing to do.</span>__</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC v3</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> just exchange zizek interpassivity with</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">The plan is the perfect bailout for the system—troops and war zones hinder a deterritorialized global capitalism </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Hardt and Negri 2k</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">[Michael, Professor of Philosophy @ Duke, Antonio, Writer of Political Philosophy, “Empire”, p. 332] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In the passage of sovereignty toward the plane of ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> important uses and effects.</span></span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Links</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Performance</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Performative criticisms of capitalism and oppression are co-opted and commodified into the latest counter-cultural product on the market </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Frank 97<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">—Author [Thomas, “Commodify your Dissent”]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nobody wants you to think they’re serious ... from a soda pop or automobile manufacturer.</span>
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Identity Struggles</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="color: black;">The alternative is a prerequisite to any postmodern or identity struggles—even if capitalism isn’t the root cause, class is the best lens to solve the problem—their focus on identity dooms the perm to failure</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">McLaren and Farahmandpur 1</span>** <span style="color: black;">[Peter, professor of urban education at UCLA, and Ramin, professor of educational leadership and policy at Portland State University, “Teaching Against Globalization and the New Imperialism: Toward a Revolutionary Pedagogy, Journal of Teacher Education”, 52: 136, <span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="color: #0658b5;">http://www.skolungdom.fi/images/stories/teacher_education.pdf</span></span>] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: gray; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">Postmodernists</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">—whose work now com- poses ...</span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> central and distinctive ways.</span></span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Buell K</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The aff’s environmental apocalypticism causes the worst acts violence under the guise of security—**turns the case and makes environmental collapse inevitable </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Buell, prof at Queens College, 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Frederick—cultural critic on the environmental crisis and a Professor of English at Queens College and the author of five books, //From Apocalypse To Way of Life,// pages 185-186] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Looked at critically, then</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, crisis discourse thus suffers from ... </span>____temptation increased to refute it, or give up, or even cut off ties to clearly__ __terminal “nature.”__</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__Heg Good K__</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Critiquing the American empire is dangerous whining. Embracing their criticism devastates US hegemony**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Kagan, PhD, 98</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD, graduate of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, adjunct history professor at Georgetown, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace [Robert, Foreign Policy, “The benevolent empire”]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Those contributing to the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> growing </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">chorus of antihegemony</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …of the next American humbling.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Vote them down because their speech-act jeopardizes the lives of our soldiers. Complaining undermines vital resolve which is key to winning**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> EYAGO 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Political Commentary – Sound Politics Reporter [7/8, [[http://www.soundpolitics.com/archives/004721.html]], Sound Commentary on Current Events in Seattle, Puget Sound and Washington State]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Finally, </span>I am angry at <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">those who undermine </span>… will just prolong the killing.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This goes infinitely more so for our public leaders. What they do for political gain is completely unconscionable.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Threats are inevitable. Retreat from primacy magnifies every international problem and escalates conflict**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Thayer 6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– PhD, professor of security studies at Missouri State, Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard (Bradley, The National Interest, “In defense of primacy”)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A grand strategy based on American …<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> humanitarian mis¬sions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg.</span></span>



<span class="text" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The alternative is to endorse and align yourself with American hegemony. The only tangible threat to US Primacy is isolationism – rhetoric of support is critical to preserving international stability**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Kristol & Kagan 96</span>** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(William Kristol – visiting professor in government at Harvard University and Robert Kagan – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History, “Toward a Neo-Reganite Foreign Policy,” Foreign Affairs. July/August, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=276 AFM)</span></span>

<span class="text" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">TWENTY YEARS later, </span>it is time once … as possible.<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To achieve this goal, the United States needs a neo-Reaganite foreign policy of military supremacy and moral confidence.</span></span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Impact Calc</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**d) Empirics—**__Every__ previous hegemonic transition was violent—withdrawal causes apolarity and dark ages as countries vie to fill the void left by the US. More ev </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Sowell 6</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas Sowell, Senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, “Where is the West?” 11-19-2006, http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell110906.php3] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">European nations protesting Saddam Hussein's death sentence…</span> __enemies but <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">were so **<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">paralyzed by confusion</span> that** **we ended up being annihilated ourselves?**</span>__ </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**This evidence summarizes their advocacy** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Carter 1</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Laren, part-time free-lance writer and Producer Advocate, October 4. “Pacifism Empowers Terrorism.” Capitalism Magazine. http://www.capmag.com/article.asp?id=1128]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the day that the United States drops the first bomb in retaliation for the World Trade Center attacks, pacifists are planning to meet at locations in several cities around the country at 5:00 p.m. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">When they hold-up</span>____… And <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">when they warn, in their condescending sneers, "Don't turn tragedy into a war," imagine that it is 1939 and </span>__**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 72pt; padding: 0in;">you are a </span>__****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 72pt; padding: 0in;">J</span>__**<span style="font-size: 72px;">e</span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 72pt; padding: 0in;">w</span>__****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 72pt; padding: 0in;"> in Poland.</span>__**</span>
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Heg Good</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">**Their criticism opens us up to a new generation of Hitlers and allows countries like Iran and North Korea to cause conflicts**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Sowell 7</span>** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas Sowell, Senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, “Morally Paralyzed,” 7-24-2007, http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell072407.php3] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__"<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Moral paralysis</span>" is a term that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">has been used to describe</span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> before that happens,</span> __**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">the big question is</span>**:__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Are we France? </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Are we morally paralyzed, perhaps fatally?</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Heg collapse causes nuclear war**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Ferguson 4 </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">History Professor, Harvard (Niall, A World Without Power, Foreign Policy)</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">The reversal of globalization--which a new Dark Age</span>__****__<span style="font-weight: normal;">…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> alternative</span> to unipolarity <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">would</span> not be multipolarity at all. It would <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">be apolarity--a global vacuum of power.</span></span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**We control empirics and the best studies** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Wohlforth 8</span>****—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Webster Professor of Government, Dartmouth. BA in IR, MA in IR and MPhil and PhD in pol sci, Yale (William, Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War, October 2008, World Politics Vol. 61, Iss. 1; pg. 28, 31 pgs, Proquest, AMiles)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Despite increasingly compelling findings concerning…</span> __also consistent with power transition and other rationalist theories of hegemonic war.__ </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC WOT Good</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Otherization and moral outrage at terrorism sustains great power coalitions**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Dibb 2 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, head of the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre, The Future of International Coalitions, Washington Quarterly 25:2, lexis, AG)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">The</span>__ __United States is leading a… sense of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">moral outrage</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">has</span>__ __certainly <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">led to the view that this war is just.</span>__ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**This solves global nuclear war** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Dyer 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Gwynne, lecturer on international affairs, Ph.D. in Military and Middle Eastern History, U London, If 9/11 hadn’t happened,[[http://www.nowtoronto.com/issues/2006-09-14/news_story.php]], AG)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__There may even be <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a hidden benefit</span>… preconditions, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">any strategic analyst worth his salt could draw up a dozen different scenarios of disaster </span>by lunchtime.__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Terrorism is evil. Our inability to aggressively fight is morally bankrupt and causes global violence**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Hannity 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – co-host of Hannity & Colmes (Sean, Deliver Us From Evil, [[http://www.bookreporter.com/reviews/0060582510-excerpt.asp]], AG)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Evil exists. It is real, and it means</span>____… despotic regimes that furnish their lifeblood.__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Fearing terrorism is the only rational response**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Krauthammer 4 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles, 10/18, The Case for Fearmongering, [[http://www.time.com/time/printout/0,8816,995420,00.html]], AG)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Such piety is always ridiculous but never more…</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> absence of fear that is utterly irrational.</span>__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Criticism is useless at this time – we must confront terrorists that are hell bent to destroy us.** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Peters 4</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ralph, retired U.S. Army intelligence officer, Parameters, “In Praise of Attrition.” Summer, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0IBR/is_2_34/ai_n6082901/pg_1]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Trust me. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">We don't need discourses.</span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> We need</span>____…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ensure that it will be used effectively. And effectiveness is what matters. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Militaristic solutions foster long term peace – only killing terrorists can solve terrorism** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Peters 4</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ralph, retired U.S. Army intelligence officer, Parameters, “In Praise of Attrition.” Summer, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0IBR/is_2_34/ai_n6082901/pg_1]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__I<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">t is not enough to materially defeat</span>…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> The only way to do that is through killing.</span>__ </span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Link Wall</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Their naïve critique of US hegemony undermines domestic support for leadership**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Holmes 8 </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Vice President, Foreign and Defense Policy Studies and Director, Institute for International Studies [Kim, 3/14, Liberty's Best Hope,</span>** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/WorldwideFreedom/hl1069.cfm]]</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">]</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">But </span>****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">there is a deeper, more homegrown</span>__****__<span style="font-weight: normal;">… atone for our alleged sins and to create a nation not unlike what you may find in the European Union.</span>__**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**This type of ivory-tower intellectualism empirically collapses civilizations**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Hanson 3 </span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">–</span>** **<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Professor Emeritus of Classics, California State (Victor, We Could Still Lose,</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/digest/3050721.html]]</span>****<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">, AG)</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Instead, </span>****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-weight: normal;">we have the leisure to engage</span>__****__<span style="font-weight: normal;">… own <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">are rarely overrun. They simply implode—whining and debating to the end, even as they pass away.</span></span>__**</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**__2NC CICERO D-RULE__**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Internal criticism thwarts hegemony – their rhetoric dooms US primacy, we don’t endorse the gendered language** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Cicero 42 BC** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Marcus Tullius, Roman Orator, http://thinkexist.com/quotes/like/a-nation-can-survive-its-fools-and-even-the/365612/]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__"A nation can survive its fools, and even the ambitious. But it cannot survive treason from within. An enemy at the gates is less formidable , for **<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">he is known</span>** and carries his banner openly. But the traitor moves amongst those within the gate freely , his sly whispers rustling through all the alleys, heard in the very halls of government itself. For the traitor appears not a traitor; **he speaks in**__ **__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 20pt; padding: 0in;">accents</span>__** __familiar to his victims, and **he**__ **__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 22pt; padding: 0in;">wears their face</span>__** __and their arguments, **he**__ **__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 22pt; padding: 0in;">appeals to the base</span>__**__ness that lies deep in the hearts of all men.__ **__<span style="font-size: 24pt;">He rots the soul</span>__** __of a nation, **he works**__ **__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 22pt; padding: 0in;">secretly</span>__** **__and__** **__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 28pt; padding: 0in;">unknown</span>__** __in the night to undermine the pillars of the city, **he infects the body politic** so that it can no longer resist. A murderer is less to fear.__ **__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-size: 36pt; padding: 0in;">The traitor is the plague</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 36pt;"> ."</span>__**</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**__2NC AT Vietnam__**</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Vietnam was justified to defeat communism and we should do it again**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Webb 3 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– former secretary of the Navy and the author of numerous books about Vietnam (James, September, Why We Fought & Why We Would Do it Again, [[http://www.jameswebb.com/articles/variouspubs/amlegionwhywefought.htm]], AG) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Atrocities? We made errors</span>____, although nowhere on the scale alleged… kinder to those who fought than to those who directed – or opposed – the war.__</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__2NC AT Hiroshima__</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Bombing Hiroshima saved millions of lives**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Donnelly 5 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">– AEI fellow in national security (Thomas, Bearing the Burden, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists 61.4, proquest, AG) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Goodbye Darkness, his memoir of World… Pacific. </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Having found the bomb, I would have used it.</span>__</span>


===2NC AT Threat Construction=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Threat construction is good – it allows us to anticipate and prevent danger**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Berke 98</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Joseph Berke, Found. And Dir. Arbours Crisis Centre, 1998, Even Paranoids Have Enemies, p. 5-6</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Internal and external persecution come together in the theoretical model…</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> there is the possibility of preparation</span>__ __for the group to face them and cope with them.__ </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Turn – War preparation deters aggression, their criticism prevents those efforts**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Luttwak 97</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 8pt;">-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Edward Luttwak, Senior Fellow, Center for Strategic and International Studies, BOSTON REVIEW, October 1997, p.11.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> More generally, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">war-preparation</span>____…<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> weather</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- except if it interferes with concrete war-preparations, when it may be counterproductive.</span></span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Psychoanalysis K</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">**The affirmative is trapped in the fantasy of American grandiosity—the call for withdrawal reinforces the desire for control through fear and anxiety—makes war inevitable**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Summers 9 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Frank, Supervising and Training Analyst Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis Chicago, IL, USA and Associate Professor of Clinical Psychiatry and the Behavioral Sciences Northwestern University Medical School, International Journal of Applied Psychoanalytic Studies Int. J. Appl. Psychoanal. Studies 6(4): 300–320 (2009) Published online 29 June 2009 in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com) DOI: 10.1002/aps.202, access 2/8/2011] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many </span>__social scientists__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and commentators have </span>__suggested … once again undergoing a temporary reality constraint on its grandiosity, rather than a relinquishment of it.__ </span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The alternative is to reject the ideological justifications and desire for grandiosity of the 1AC** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Rejection challenges the American inability to acknowledge vulnerability that creates conditions for violence—the perm only makes it worse** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Summers 9** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Frank, Supervising and Training Analyst Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis Chicago, IL, USA and Associate Professor of Clinical Psychiatry and the Behavioral Sciences Northwestern University Medical School, International Journal of Applied Psychoanalytic Studies Int. J. Appl. Psychoanal. Studies 6(4): 300–320 (2009) Published online 29 June 2009 in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com) DOI: 10.1002/aps.202, access 2/8/2011] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__As Hannah Arendt (1969) demonstrated long ago, violence …are subject (Reisman, 1999–2000). American exceptional- ism was now American “exemptionalism.”__</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND, the judge should assume the position of the analyst—the alternative opens up space to treat the wounded ego of the American subject** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Layton et al 6** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Lynne, Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychology in the Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and is in clinical practice, Nancy Caro Hollander is Professor Emeritus at California State University and a member of the Psychoanalytic Center of California and is in clinical practice, __Psychoanalysis, Class, and Politics__, RCB]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__This__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">book, then, </span>__represents a radical psychoanalytic appreciation of the interpenetration of subjectivity and the sociopolitical order__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It addresses …</span>**__<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;"> that serves an individualist and capitalist status quo</span>__**__. It is a split that too often **<span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">discourages critical awareness and sustains psychic pain. </span>**__</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 11pt;">2NC Overview</span>=== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**This is a prerequisite to effective predictions and policy action—the aff results in policy failure** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Kaplowitz 9**0 <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Noel, research associate at the Institute of Governmental Affairs, University of California at Davis in International Relations National Self-Images, Perception of Enemies, and Conflict Strategies: Psychopolitical Dimensions of International Relations Political Psychology Vol. 11, No. 1 (Mar., 1990), pp. 39-82 JSTOR] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">Conceptions of national interest comprise</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span class="underline">of analysis is then able to suggest ways in which resultant knowledge can be used to </span><span class="Box">design policies more likely to make for constructive outcomes</span><span class="underline">.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Framework</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND, Plan focus is bad—it reduces an 8 minute speech to a 5-second text—kills critical thinking and creates students who __don’t defend their assumptions__ and makes racist and sexist language a no-cost option—decision rule—the __justifications are inseparable from the plan itself__** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Risman 4** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Barbara J. Risman is Associate Professor of Sociology and Found Director of Women ‘s Studies at North Carolina State University, “Gender as a Social Structure: Theory Wrestling with Activism” Gender and Society, Vol. 18, No. 4 (Aug., 2004), pp. 429-450 Jstor]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Giddens’s (1984) structuration theory adds considerably more depth to …</span> __human agency creates, sustains, and modifies current structure. Action itself may change the immediate or future context__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Their threats are false cries fed by the government—fetishizing the state for protection leads to global warfare and destroys agency and decision-making** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Hollander et al 6** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Nancy, Professor Emeritus at California State University and a member of the Psychoanalytic Center of California and is in clinical practice in Los Angeles, California, Susan Gutwill is Faculty and Supervisor at the Women's Therapy Centre Institute, New York, and is in private practice in Highland Park, New Jersey, __Psychoanalysis, Class, and Politics__, “”Despair and hope in a culture of denial”, Chapter 5, RCB]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">We begin with a brief sketch of the initial traumatogenic …</span> __because they constitute the relationship between the deep structures of the psyche and the ideological underpinnings of the culture.__</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Key to policymaking** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Bilgin 4** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Pinar BILGIN IR @ Bilikent AND Adam David MORTON Senior Lecturer and Fellow of the Centre for the Study of Social and Global Justice IR @ Nottingham ‘4 (“From ‘Rogue’ to ‘Failed’ States? The Fallacy of Short-termism” Politics 24 (3) p. Wiley Interscience]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Calls for alternative approaches to the phenomenon of ...the academy and policymaking communities alike. </span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Risk the Impossible</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Even in the face of extinction, you must RISK THE IMPOSSIBLE—only by prioritizing ethics and a permanent peace over biological life can we affirm life** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="tagChar">Zizek 2</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Slavoj, The Puppet and the Dwarf, 94-95]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Insofar as “</span><span class="underline">death” and “life” desgnate</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …of life, the way this excess violently inscribes itself into the life-texture. Chesterton makes this point apropos the paradox of courage:</span> </span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Predictions</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Alarmism destroys predictions** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Kurasawa 4** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Professor of Sociology @ York Universty of Toronto, Constellations, 11.4] </span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">__<span style="font-weight: normal;">Foremost among the possible distortions …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">. As much as alarmist ideas beget a culture of fear, the reverse is no less true.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**You are equivalent to a monkey throwing darts** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Menand 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Louis, Former Professor of Political Science at MIT, December 5, “Everybody's and Expert,” http://www.newyorker.com/archive/2005/12/05/051205crbo_books1?printable=true] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">“Expert Political Judgment” is not a work of media criticism. Tetlock is a psychologist—he teaches at Berkeley</span><span style="font-weight: normal;">—and __his <span style="background: yellow;">conclusions are based on a long-term study </span>that he began …the state of<span style="background: yellow;"> the world</span>, in other words, <span style="background: yellow;">are poorer forecasters than dart-throwing monkeys</span>, who would have distributed their picks evenly over the three choices__</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The aff is inherently __non-empirical__---security studies get swamped by worst-case thinking that conforms to ideological attachment, __not historical accuracy__** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="tagChar">Mythen & Walklate 8</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Gabe Mythen is Principal Lecturer in Sociology at Manchester Metropolitan University, AND Sandra Walklate is Eleanor Rathbone Chair of Sociology at Liverpool University, Terrorism, Risk and International Security: The Perils of Asking 'What If?' 2008; 39; 221Security Dialogue, ESBSCO]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt; margin-left: 0in;">This climate of not knowing enough – and, moreover, …subaltern discourses about terrorism are axiomatic. Yet, it remains questionable as to whether these geopolitical excursions are legitimate, practical or just:</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**There is __no distinction__ between the gut-checks of policy-makers and appeal to experts—both are flawed security predictions that must be refused** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Gray 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[COLIN S. GRAY is Professor of International Politics and Strategic Studies at the University of Reading, “Coping With Uncertainty: Dilemmas of Defense Planning,” Comparative Strategy, Volume 27, Issue 4 July 2008 , pages 324 – 331]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is worth noting that </span>__defense officials__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and responsible …</span> __what the science and technology of the 21st century will produce. Period. The unpredictable is just that, unpredictable__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT Realism</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Psychoanalysis solves realism—try or die** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Mack 86** **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[John, Doctor of Psychiatry and Professor @ Harvard, “Epilogue: Aggression and Its Alternatives in the Conduct of International Relations”, http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/ejournal/article.asp?id=282] </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="underline">self-glorification of nations lies at </span><span class="Box">…</span><span class="underline">soul will</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, before long, </span><span class="underline">lead to the </span><span class="Box">extinction of life altogether</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span> </span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT Permutation</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND, don’t let them sever their reps—it’s a voting issue b/c makes them a moving target and we can’t generate offense—security representations crowds out alternative solvency and cedes the political** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Neocleous 8 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, //Critique of Security//, 185-6] </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline">The only way</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> out of such a dilemma, </span><span class="underline">to escape the fetish, is perhaps to </span><span class="Box">eschew the logic of security altogether</span><span class="underline"> – to reject it as so ideologically …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that ‘securitizing’ an issue does not mean dealing with it politically, but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.143</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The rejection of exceptionalism allows for the formation of a new national identity that challenges the flawed withdrawal of the affirmative—the perm is just more of the same** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Summers 9** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Frank, Supervising and Training Analyst Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis Chicago, IL, USA and Associate Professor of Clinical Psychiatry and the Behavioral Sciences Northwestern University Medical School, International Journal of Applied Psychoanalytic Studies Int. J. Appl. Psychoanal. Studies 6(4): 300–320 (2009) Published online 29 June 2009 in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com) DOI: 10.1002/aps.202, access 2/8/2011] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once American exceptionalism is seen as an ingrained grandiosity that forms the very self-image of the country, the resilience of the pattern of inter- vention and belief in omnipotence becomes understandable. </span>__… view of ourselves that leads to self-defeating ends____<span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The gratifica- tion of peaceful cooperation and international understanding can then become apparent. </span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Links</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**The affirmative’s benevolent withdrawal doesn’t change the __psychological conditions__ that will inevitably cause Chinese retaliation** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Chang 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Chung-Yue—teaches philosophy in the United States, 9/3, “How the US can avoid road to ruin”, http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/thinktank/2010-09/03/content_11250684.htm, accessed February 12, 2011, ZR] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">During the third quarter of this year, western Pacific Ocean was …</span> **__procedure.__** __What are the good citizens of the world to do for the US? The short answer: Call attention to the destructiveness of the "Washington rules" mentality__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and work for its transformation to the "Washington cooperates and nourishes" mentality.</span></span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Environment</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**AND, their apocalyptic discourse makes environmental collapse inevitable** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**<span class="CHighlight">Buell 3</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Frederick, cultural critic on the environmental crisis and a Professor of English at Queens College and the author of five books, //From Apocalypse To Way of Life,// pages 185-186] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Looked at critically, then</span>__,__ <span class="CHighlight">crisis discourse</span> __thus suffers from a number of liabilities. First, it seems to have become a political liability__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> almost as much as an asset</span>__. It__ <span class="CHighlight">calls <span style="border: none;">…</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to show more and more severe deformations of nature</span><span class="CHighlight">, <span style="border: none;">temptation increased to refute it</span></span>__, or give up, or even cut off ties to clearly__ __terminal “nature.”__ </span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">North Korea</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Troops or no troops misses the point—threatening representations has been the motivating factor for Korean conflict—turns the war advantage** </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**Bleiker 5** <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">[Roland, Professor of International Relations, pHD from the Australian National University, “Divided Korea: Toward A Culture of Reconciliation,” p. 46-52] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Lets us, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">for the sake of understanding the interactive dimensions of the crisis</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">…</span></span> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 8pt;">of the Union address.70 <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The result was </span></span>predictable: Pyongyang became more recalcitrant. <span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">A new nu- clear crisis</span></span> started to take hold of the Korean peninsula. </span>