<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[toc]]
</span>aff cites: [[mailto:johnvitzileos@gmail.com|johnvitzileos@gmail.com]]
neg cites: [[mailto:acj.walsh@gmail.com|acj.walsh@gmail.com]]

=Affirmative= 
==Militarism Aff== 
===1AC=== 
====Emory==== 

[[#OLE_LINK18]][[#OLE_LINK17]][[#OLE_LINK16]][[#OLE_LINK15]]
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Plan: The United States Federal government should withdraw its military and police presence from the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.</span></span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Contention One is ‘The Long War’</span></span>
**In Afghanistan, the US is digging in for the Long War, an indefinite deployment. The 2014 withdrawal deadline will not be met, just as the 2011 and 2008 deadlines were not**
Wood 10 (DAVID WOOD. 8/25, Chief Military Correspondent, The Long War: Afghanistan After July 2011, Politics Daily, [[http://www.politicsdaily.com/2010/08/25/the-long-war-afghanistan-after-july-2011/]])
The reality, __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">in Afghanistan</span>__ if … __, and the fighting, will go on.__



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Contention Two is ‘Empire State of Mind’</span></span>
**First, In the last decade, the US has subscribed to the doctrine of New Militarism, submitting to the war machine through arms production, military intervention, and policies framed by the ever present threat of war.**
**Boggs 5**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carl, Professor of social science National University, Imperial Delusions: American Militarism and Endless War, p1)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The United States has become … </span>____domination within the global system.__ </span>
**Second, This dogmatic reliance on militarism as a necessary value system is the precursor for dehumanization, racism, sexism, and constant cycles of international and domestic violence.**
**COMD 1** (Committee opposed to militarism and the draft, Sept 4, 2001, [[http://www.comdsd.org/militarism.htm]]) 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Militarism is a value system that … </span>__militarism, the military establishment itself.</span>
**Third, Afghanistan is the worst manifestations of this logic- we need to problematize our intervention take a stance against militarist violence. We’ll isolate two reasons why Afghanistan is key:**



**First – Discourse. The occupation of Afghanistan is perpetuated through the rhetoric of the long war. The constant demand for military** **<span style="color: #141413;">solutions and the need for new ‘enemies’ of the occupation legitimize cycles of violence</span>**
**Shor 10** (Francis Shor, War in the Era of Declining U.S. Global Hegemony Journal of Critical Globalisation Studies, Issue 2 (2010) , pg 65)
__<span style="color: #141413;">Wh<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">at has been pursued by … </span></span>__<span style="color: #141413;">. Over the first year and continuing </span>
**In particular, the status-quo understanding of Afghanistan relies on a series of paternalistic myths that distract from the underlying causes of material inequalities in favor of intervention**
**Crowe 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(L. A. Crowe York University 2007 The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’ , http://turin.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">historical production of particular … </span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the ‘militarization’ discourse/myth. </span>



**Second is Bases – The US is in the middle of a large base construction movement of over 700 bases designed to make US presence permanent**
**Turse 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Nick Turse, The 700 Military Bases of Afghanistan, 2010, [[http://www.tomdispatch.com/post/175204/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nearly a decade after the Bush … it base-building, in Afghanistan.</span>
**Bases are the worst manifestations of militarism- they sacrifice local culture, the environment, and mask systemic violence**
**Wilcox 3** (Richard Wilcox , United States Militarism,Global Instability and, Environmental Destruction, December, 2003, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www9.ocn.ne.jp/%7Easlan/rwilcox.htm|http://www9.ocn.ne.jp/~aslan/rwilcox.htm]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gerson & Birchard (1991) provides a broader perspective … fighter jets and other activities. </span>


**And ‘baseworld’ is the final step towards total domination of the War Machine. The state is subsumed to the demands of the military industrial complex, creating an ‘empire of bases’ which makes war an inevitable state with no other aim than itself**
Buchanan 6 (Ian Buchanan. Cardiff University, Treatise on Militarism, symploke 14.1/2 (2006) 152-168)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When the aim of war … militarism as an incorporeal system.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The USFG’s constructs terrorists, drug traffickers, and Afghani farmers as threats to maintain military build up, but rather than making us safer, it causes resentment and risks planetary extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Boggs 5 (Carl, Professor of social science National University, Imperial Delusions: American Militarism and Endless War)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the midst of dramatic … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">peace, perhaps even <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">planetary survival.</span> </span>__


**Military planners vastly over-estimate threats and the effectiveness of military solutions. They have an inherent incentive to perpetuate war**
**Van Evera 1** (Stephen, MIT, Publications and Working Papers 2001, [[http://hdl.handle.net/1721.1/5545]]).
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">This chapter argues that professional … than in fact they are. </span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 16pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">We have a specific scenario- occupying Afghanistan will eventually compel policymakers to intervene with Russia and China over energy routes.</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 16pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vorpahl 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark Vorpahl. Jan 1, 2009. “A New … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">propel things in this direction</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Contention Three is ‘ecocide’</span></span>
First, US military presence in Afghanistan creates millions of kilograms of hazardous waste and irreversibly devastates the ecosphere endangering Afghan health and breaking international laws
**Nasuti 10** (Matthew Nasuti, The American Military is Creating an Environmental Disaster in Afghanistan, April 2010, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=18883]]</span>)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The American military presence in … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and their exotic chemicals caused.</span>


Second, These tragedies are not accidental—they are the deliberate offshoots of a militarist logic in which the environment is expendable. Our constant march toward ecocide ensures extinction
Irina Pollard, Ph.D. in the Department of Biological Sciences at Macquarie University, 2003 (“Choose Between Cooperation and Annihilation: A Mental Mapping Project Towards a more Generously Directed Altruism,” Eubios Journal of Asian and International Bioethics, Volume 13, Available Online at <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www2.unescobkk.org/eubios/EJ132/ej132f.htm]]</span>)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The hostile actions of war … </span>endangered by human over-appropriation.



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 11pt; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">Contention four is Solvency</span></span>
**First, The roll of the ballot is that of public intellectual. You have a responsibility to reject militarization and its depictions of violence on face. The discursive act of 1AC allows us to disrupt global systems of power, creating space for libratory politics.**
**Giroux, 2004** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry, “War on Terror The Militarising of Public Space and Culture in the United States,” Third Text, Vol. 18, Issue 4, 220-221)</span>
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As the forces of militarisation … a dreadful pact with a creeping and </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">dangerous authoritarianism. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">We find ourselves in the midst of a war globally</span>, not simply a war against terrorism but also a war <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">against democratic solidarity</span> in which a democratic future both at home and abroad stands in the balance.</span>__


<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second, Ending the occupation sends shockwaves through the American empire. It makes our blind faith in the military a political question and causes withdrawal from all foreign bases</span>**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hornberger 09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jacob G. Hornberger, founder and … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of dollars necessary to support it.</span>__</span>




**Third, Withdrawal taps into the global anti-base movement, ensuring spillover.**
Andrew **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Yeo, 9</span>** Prof @ Catholic University of America, "Not in Anyone’s Backyard: The Emergence and Identity of a Transnational Anti-Base Network" International Studies Quarterly (2009), 53, 571–594
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the 2007 No Bases conference … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">justice movements through a spillover process.</span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fourth, Criticizing the US role in Afghanistan fuels the anti-militarism movement to achieve lasting spillover</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Zeese 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kevin, Deceit and Truth Are Feeding Resistance to US Militarism, 26 December, 2010, [[http://ephraiyim.wordpress.com/2010/12/26/deceit-and-truth-are-feeding-resistance-to-us-militarism/]])</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">that could collapse at anytime.</span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fifth, We should challenge American interventionism </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Hornberger 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jacob G Blame Statism for the Disasters in Iraq and Afghanistan, September 22, 2010, http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2010-09-22.asp)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Or consider Afghanistan, whose government … </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">statism, especially <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">interventionism and empire</span>.</span>__


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sixth, </span>****<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our continued presence in Afghanistan numbs us to the deaths of thousands of civilians</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Hornberger 11 (Jacob G. Hornberger, January 12, 2011, The Banality of Killing, http://www.fff.org/comment/com1101g.asp)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">But let’s face it: <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">S</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">uch killings … </span>__high, has been considered worth it.</span>
**Seventh, Afghan stability will happen only after we leave**
**Ely 2010**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mike Ely. March 26, 2010. “Demand Complete and Immediate Withdrawal from Aghanistan”. [[http://revolutionaryfrontlines.wordpress.com/2010/03/26/demand-complete-and-immediate-withdrawal-from-aghanistan/]])</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.25in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">If we mean by “</span>__good …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is not the same thing).</span></span>




**Eighth, Worst -case scenario planning supports a militarized decision calculus which guarantees miscalculation and violence. Constructed apocalypse stories are just another way to support Militarism**
**Krepon, 2009** (Michael, Co-Founder of the Henry L. Stimson Center, a Diplomat Scholar at the University of Virginia “ Why Inflating Threats Won't Reduce Them ” Foreign Affairs, May 2009 - June 2009 Pg. 2 Vol. 88 No. 3)
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Today, as was the case … States and foreign intelligence services.__</span>


**Ninth, Realism justifies US imperialism and militarism linking back to our critique of the status quo**
**Craig 4** (Campbell, October, American Realism Versus American Imperialism, World Politics 57.1 (2004) 143-171)
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Nevertheless, there seems to be … since the beginning of history.30 </span>

==Counternarcotics Aff== 
===1AC=== 
====New Trier==== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw all forces conducting counternarcotics operations in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.</span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Inherency </span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Obama’s new counternarcotics policy is ineffective—increase drug revenue and corruption**Jonathan P. <span class="Author-Date">**Caulkin et al.**</span>, prof. of Operations Research and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon , co-director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, author of several books on narcotics, 6/20<span class="Author-Date">**10**</span> [Mark A.R. Kleiman, prof of Public Policy at UCLA School of Public Affairs and was professors at several other universities prior; Jonathan D. Kulick, Research director at Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies, policy analyst at RAND, and researcher at IBM; “Drug Production and trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan” from NYU’s Center on International Cooperation, pdf pg. 7]</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__warlords, and corrupt officials__</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">...The superficially obvious prescription is to aggressively </span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**The Drug War is unwinnable- demand for opium is inevitable and so is production**Jonathan P. <span class="Author-Date">**Caulkin et al.**</span>, prof. of Operations Research and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon , co-director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, author of several books on narcotics, 6/20<span class="Author-Date">**10**</span> [Mark A.R. Kleiman, prof of Public Policy at UCLA School of Public Affairs and was professors at several other universities prior; Jonathan D. Kulick, Research director at Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies, policy analyst at RAND, and researcher at IBM; “Drug Production and trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan” from NYU’s Center on International Cooperation, pdf pg. 7]</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 2.7pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">It does not follow, however...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">activities, including drug production</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Put away your perception DAs— Obama’s 2011 timetable won’t affect counternarcotics, but it’s enough to trigger your links****Rubin, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute; senior lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Civil-Military Relations; and a senior editor of the //Middle East Quarterly//. (Michael, Public Square, 3/8, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is true, as Schlesinger points out, ...__Pakistan, Iran, and even Russia.__ </span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Afghani Instability Advantage****CN strengthens the Taliban in two ways:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**1. Political support – CN missions encourage farmers to go to the Taliban for trafficking and protection** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Vanda </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**Felbab-Brown**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**10**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Reinvigorated by a number of factors...</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">physically drives them into the hands of the Taliban. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**2**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**Government corruption – officials get leverage for bribes**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Jonathan <span class="Author-Date">**Goodhand**</span> Senior Lecturer in the Department of Development Studies, School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London <span class="Author-Date">**08**</span> ( “ Corrupting or Consolidating the Peace? The Drugs Economy and Post-conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Peacebuilding in Afghanistan” June 23 [[http://pdfserve.informaworld.com/903095__793322435.pdf]] 7/22/10)</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.1in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">It has been argued that by focusing ... </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__governments into a lethal confrontation with drug cartels’.77__ </span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**A strong Taliban will collapse the weak Afghani government**Vanda <span class="Author-Date">**Felbab-Brown**</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">**10**</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan” [[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Perhaps nowhere in the world ...</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">counterproductive even for the narrow goal of narcotics suppression.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.1in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Spills over into Central Asian war**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">S. Frederick <span class="Author-Date">**Starr**</span>, Chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at Johns Hopkins University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Foreign Affairs, July/August, 20**<span class="Author-Date">05</span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">In relations among states, success does not necessarily ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">after 1917. Development will halt</span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**War draws in Russia and goes nuclear**Dr. Ehsan <span class="Author-Date">**Ahrari**</span>, (Prof National Security and Strategy of the Joint and Combined Warfighting School at the Armed Forces Staff College), 8-<span class="Author-Date">**01**</span>, “Jihadi Groups, Nuclear Pakistan and the New Great Game,” Strategic Studies Institute [www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/Pubs/display.cfm?pubID=112]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Even though in the Clinton era the ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">thus representing a gain for all concerned.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And, counternarcotics operations use targeted extrajudicial assassinations**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Hornberger 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jacob, Pres of Future of Freedom Foundation, Oct 28-9, //Future Freedom Foundation//, http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-10-28.asp )</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The U.S. government has </span>__****__battlefield...__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including the United States</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt;">And targeted assassinations make death calculable and eliminate value to life- the solution is not to reject military engagement but to reform this specific manifestation </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilcox ‘9</span>** (Lauren, Department of Political Science, University of Minnesota, Body Counts: The Politics of Embodiment in Precision Warfare, Google Scholars, T.S.)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">In discourse of precision warfare, the ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">but also to touch and to violence,” (Butler 2004, 26).</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Dehumanization makes annihalation acceptable and leads to genocide**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Philip G. **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zimbardo</span></span>,** First Dehumanization, then War, and then the Holocaust, 3/3/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**08** </span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Professor Emeritus of Psychology at Stanford University.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://noorslist.wordpress.com/2008/03/03/first-dehumanization-then-war-and-then-the-holocaust/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">“<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">At the core of evil is ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">torment, torture, and even annihilation</span>__</span></span></span>

**Terrorism Advantage**

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Counternarcotic policies enhance public support for radicalism and interfere with COIN**Vanda <span class="Author-Date">**Felbab-Brown**</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, 20<span class="Author-Date">**09**</span>, “Shooting Up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Terrorism”, Brookings Institution Press</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">A story from Afghanistan’s rural south...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__legitimacy and popular support.__</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt -13.5pt;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Al Qaeda will takeover a dozen countries and transform them into nuclear launch sites for an attack on the US. US will be forced to multiple preemptive wars** </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt -13.5pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Marvin </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**Cetron**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, President of Forecasting International, 20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**07**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> (U.S. News and World Report has identified Dr. Marvin Cetron as one of the nation's foremost futurists. Cetron spent 20 years in research and development planning and forecasting with the U.S. Navy), “Defeating Terrorism: Is It Possible? Is It Probable?” The Futurist May-June 2007, pg. 23-25]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: -9pt; margin-right: -0.15in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Terrorists will gain weapons of mass destruction...</span></span>____<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">The alternatives are too grim to contemplate.</span> </span></span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Terrorist attack risks extinction**.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Alexander** Prof and Director of Inter-University for Terrorism Studies<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">3</span>**</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Yonah, Terrorism Myths and Realities, Washington Times, Prof and Director of Inter-University</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">For Terrorism Studies)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Last week's brutal suicide bombings in Baghdad...<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">regional and global security concerns</span>__</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt;">Current CN policies keep Afghani farmers in poverty</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andersson</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Dalin, and Stage 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Camilla Andersson, Torbjörn Dalin, Jesper Stage,</span></span><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Department of Economics, Umeå University, Sweden Impact Assessment of Crop Eradicationin Afghanistan and Lessons Learned from Latin Amand South East Asia,The Kabul International Winter Symposium on Drug Policy January, 2006 ,http://www.akha.org/upload/documents/opiumeradicationsenlis.pdf)</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The root </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">problem of crop ...</span>____death__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the remnants of the Taliban. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Poverty is the worst form of structural violence**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James </span>**Gilligan, Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> edition, </span>**Violence: Reflections on Our Deadliest Epidemic**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 195-196</span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The 14 to 18 million</span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> deaths ...</span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">year of every decade, </span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">throughout the world</span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>__</span>
**Production Shift Advantage**

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Expanded interdiction causes vertical integration and consolidation of trafficking groups**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">**Felbab-Brown**</span>, Research Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, August, 20<span class="Author-Date">**07**</span>, [[@http://www3.brookings.edu/fp/research/felbab-brown200708.pdf]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Although </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__interdiction__</span></span> <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">does not target ...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__if not outright tribal violence__</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**They will relocate to Pakistan and topple the government – the worst scenario possible**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">**Felbab-Brown**</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">**10**</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">By far the worst scenario from...</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Baluchistan, and Punjab are all areas with minimal employment opportunities</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">﻿</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: -13.5pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**We’ll isolate three impact scenarios****1. Civil war with the Pashtuns that pulls in Lebanon, Palestine, and Iraq**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Stephen J. <span class="Author-Date">**Morgan**</span>, former member of the British Labour Party Exectutive Committee. He is a political psychologist, researcher into Chaos/Complexity Theory, 9/23/<span class="Author-Date">**07** </span>“Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?”, [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: -4.5pt; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify; text-indent: 4.5pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Although the Pashtuns are more closely linked to tribal and clan loyalty...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">China and Russia pitted against the US.</span>__</span></span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">2.Independently, perception of Pakistanian instability causes preemptive strike by India.</span>**</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Ricks 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War’s Costs, Consequences,” The Washington Post, 10/21, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer|__http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer__]]) </span></span>
<span style="background-color: yellow; display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">The prospect of Pakistan being taken...Sam Gardiner, an expert on strategic games.</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**3. Shifts in production to Central Asia upsets US oil interests and causes oil shocks**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">**Felbab-Brown**</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">**10**</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, a shift of </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">opium poppy...<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">weakening their already minimal cooperation.</span></span>__</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">These devastate the economy and lead to a financial collapse</span></span></span>**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Marconi ’09 </span>**</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Did High Oil Prices cause the Financial Crash?” By GIUSEPPE MARCONI for OIL-PRICE.NET, 2009/11/18; http://www.oil-price.net/en/articles/did-high-oil-prices-cause-financial-crash.php</span></span><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Date Accessed: July 14, 2010</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This year</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, Professor James Hamilton... </span>__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">are currently trying to recover from</span></span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Economic collapse leads to extinction**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">T.E.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Bearden**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">, LTC U.S. Army (Retired),</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**2000**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[“The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly,” http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3aaf97f22e23.htm, June 24]</span></span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt;">__History bears out that...__[[#_Toc204232486]]</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt;">﻿</span></span></span>
**Solvency**

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">US commitment is key to all counternarcotic efforts—Afghan government has neither resources nor motivation</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**USDS**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, United States Department of State, office of Inspector General, Middle East Regional Office, December 20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**09**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, “Status of the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Counternarcotics Programs in Afghanistan ”, Performance Audit, [[http://oig.state.gov/documents/organization/134183.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">The Department has not clarified an end state ...</span></span>__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Government funding not be sustainable at current levels.</span>__</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**No alternatives: Interdiction, crop substitution, and economic development all fail**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Carpenter, 2k4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, is the author or editor of 16 books on international affairs, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror” CATO Institute, 11/10/04, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb84.pdf]])</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">That is especially true of the Pashtun ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and may open new areas to drug cultivation.34 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Cutting back on counter-narcotics enforcement solves corruption.** </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Caulkins, Kleiman, and Kulick, June 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jonathan P. Caulkins, Mark A.R. Kleiman, Jonathan D. Kulick, Caulkins is a professor of operations research and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University, Kleiman is a professor of public policy at the UCLA school of public affairs, and Kulick is the Director of studies at the Georgia Foundation of Strategic and International Studies, [“Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan,” NYU Center on International Cooperation, available at: </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>__The value to traffickers of corrupting ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">jurisdiction than law enforcement agencies.43</span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**2010 is key – Afghanistan insurgency is at the tipping point.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Smith, 2010**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Mark S., Associated Press – Correspondent, June 26, “Obama, Brit Leader: Afghanistan in critical period,” [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5isOFwdbq0tsqatW6vJpkDRTI1gMgD9GJ5FH80]]] </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">TORONTO — President Barack Obama and British Prime ...</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">war is considered at a tipping point</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Violence massively increasing now.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**VOA, 6-24** </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">[2010, “Deadliest Month for International Troops in Afghanistan,” http://www1.voanews.com/english/news/asia/Deadliest-Month-for-International-Troops-in-Afghanistan-97060264.html</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">June has become the deadliest month for</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">vehicle hit a bomb in Uruzgan province Wednesday.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Ending CN is key to winning overall war in middle east**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Carpenter 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ted Galen, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror”, Nov 10, Foreign Policy Briefing, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb84.pdf]]</span> , date accessed: 6/21/2010) AJK</span> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The war on drugs is interfering ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">way of life, and that would be most unfortunate.”2 </span></span>__**</span>
====Iowa Caucus==== 
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">**Observation One is Inherency**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Obama’s new counternarcotics policy is ineffective—increase drug revenue and corruption**Jonathan P. <span class="Author-Date">Caulkin et al.</span>, prof. of Operations Research and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon , co-director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, author of several books on narcotics, 6/20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> [Mark A.R. Kleiman, prof of Public Policy at UCLA School of Public Affairs and was professors at several other universities prior; Jonathan D. Kulick, Research director at Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies, policy analyst at RAND, and researcher at IBM; “Drug Production and trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan” from NYU’s Center on International Cooperation, pdf pg. 7]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">The superficially obvious prescription is to aggressively ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">insurgents, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">warlords,<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> and corrupt officials</span></span></span></span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Put away your perception DAs— Obama’s 2011 timetable won’t affect counternarcotics, but it’s enough to trigger your links****Rubin, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute; senior lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School’s Center for Civil-Military Relations; and a senior editor of the //Middle East Quarterly//. (Michael, Public Square, 3/8, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” </span><span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is true, as Schlesinger points out, ...__Pakistan, Iran, and even Russia.__</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Afghani Instability Advantage**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**CN strengthens the Taliban in two ways:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**1. Political support – CN missions encourage farmers to go to the Taliban for trafficking and protection** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Vanda </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**Felbab-Brown**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**10**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Reinvigorated by a number of factors...</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">physically drives them into the hands of the Taliban. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**2**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**Government corruption – officials get leverage for bribes**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Jonathan <span class="Author-Date">Goodhand</span> Senior Lecturer in the Department of Development Studies, School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London <span class="Author-Date">08</span> ( “ Corrupting or Consolidating the Peace? The Drugs Economy and Post-conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Peacebuilding in Afghanistan” June 23 [[http://pdfserve.informaworld.com/903095__793322435.pdf]] 7/22/10) </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.1in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">It has been argued that by focusing ... </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__governments into a lethal confrontation with drug cartels’.77__</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**A strong Taliban will collapse the weak Afghani government**Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan” [[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Perhaps nowhere in the world ...</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">counterproductive even for the narrow goal of narcotics suppression.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.1in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Spills over into Central Asian war**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">S. Frederick <span class="Author-Date">Starr</span>, Chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at Johns Hopkins University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Foreign Affairs, July/August, 20<span class="Author-Date">05</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">In relations among states, success does not necessarily ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;">after 1917. Development will halt</span> </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">﻿</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**War draws in Russia and goes nuclear**Dr. Ehsan <span class="Author-Date">Ahrari</span>, (Prof National Security and Strategy of the Joint and Combined Warfighting School at the Armed Forces Staff College), 8-<span class="Author-Date">01</span>, “Jihadi Groups, Nuclear Pakistan and the New Great Game,” Strategic Studies Institute [www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/Pubs/display.cfm?pubID=112]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Even though in the Clinton era the ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">thus representing a gain for all concerned.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And, counternarcotics operations use targeted extrajudicial assassinations**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Hornberger 9 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jacob, Pres of Future of Freedom Foundation, Oct 28-9, //Future Freedom Foundation//, http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-10-28.asp ) </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The U.S. government has </span>battlefield...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including the United States</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And targeted assassinations make death calculable and eliminate value to life- the solution is not to reject military engagement but to reform this specific manifestation** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilcox ‘9</span> (Lauren, Department of Political Science, University of Minnesota, Body Counts: The Politics of Embodiment in Precision Warfare, Google Scholars, T.S.) </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">In discourse of precision warfare, the ...</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">but also to touch and to violence,” (Butler 2004, 26).</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Dehumanization makes annihalation acceptable and leads to genocide**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Philip G. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zimbardo</span></span>, First Dehumanization, then War, and then the Holocaust, 3/3/<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">08 </span></span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Professor Emeritus of Psychology at Stanford University.]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://noorslist.wordpress.com/2008/03/03/first-dehumanization-then-war-and-then-the-holocaust/</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">“<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">At the core of evil is ...</span>____<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">torment, torture, and even annihilation</span>__</span></span></span>

**Terrorism Advantage**

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Counternarcotic policies enhance public support for radicalism and interfere with COIN**Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, 20<span class="Author-Date">09</span>, “Shooting Up: Counterinsurgency and the War on Terrorism”, Brookings Institution Press</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">A story from Afghanistan’s rural south...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__legitimacy and popular support.__</span></span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt -13.5pt;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Al **Qaeda will takeover a dozen countries and transform them into nuclear launch sites for an attack on the US. US will be forced to multiple preemptive wars** </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt -13.5pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Marvin </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">Cetron</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, President of Forecasting International, 20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">07</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> (U.S. News and World Report has identified Dr. Marvin Cetron as one of the nation's foremost futurists. Cetron spent 20 years in research and development planning and forecasting with the U.S. Navy), “Defeating Terrorism: Is It Possible? Is It Probable?” The Futurist May-June 2007, pg. 23-25] </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: -9pt; margin-right: -0.15in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Terrorists will gain weapons of mass destruction...</span></span>____<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">The alternatives are too grim to contemplate.</span> </span></span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Terrorist attack risks extinction.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Alexander Prof and Director of Inter-University for Terrorism Studies<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 12pt;">3</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Yonah, Terrorism Myths and Realities, Washington Times, Prof and Director of Inter-University</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">For Terrorism Studies)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Last week's brutal suicide bombings in Baghdad...<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">regional and global security concerns</span>__</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 10pt;">**Current CN policies keep Afghani farmers in poverty**</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andersson</span> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Dalin, and Stage 6</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Camilla Andersson, Torbjörn Dalin, Jesper Stage,</span></span><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Department of Economics, Umeå University, Sweden Impact Assessment of Crop Eradicationin Afghanistan and Lessons Learned from Latin Amand South East Asia,The Kabul International Winter Symposium on Drug Policy January, 2006 ,http://www.akha.org/upload/documents/opiumeradicationsenlis.pdf)</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The root </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">problem of crop ...</span>____death__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> by the remnants of the Taliban.</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Poverty is the worst form of structural violence**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">James </span>Gilligan, Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, 2000<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> edition, </span>Violence: Reflections on Our Deadliest Epidemic<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 195-196</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The 14 to 18 million</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> deaths ...</span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">year of every decade, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">throughout the world</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>__</span>
**Production Shift Advantage**

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Expanded interdiction causes vertical integration and consolidation of trafficking groups**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, Research Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, August, 20<span class="Author-Date">07</span>, [[@http://www3.brookings.edu/fp/research/felbab-brown200708.pdf]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Although </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__interdiction__</span></span> <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">does not target ...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__if not outright tribal violence__</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__﻿__</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**They will relocate to Pakistan and topple the government – the worst scenario possible**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">By far the worst scenario from...</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Baluchistan, and Punjab are all areas with minimal employment opportunities</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">﻿</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: -13.5pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**We’ll isolate three impact scenarios****1. Civil war with the Pashtuns that pulls in Lebanon, Palestine, and Iraq**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Stephen J. <span class="Author-Date">Morgan</span>, former member of the British Labour Party Exectutive Committee. He is a political psychologist, researcher into Chaos/Complexity Theory, 9/23/<span class="Author-Date">07 </span>“Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?”, [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: -4.5pt; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify; text-indent: 4.5pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Although the Pashtuns are more closely linked to tribal and clan loyalty...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">China and Russia pitted against the US.</span>__</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Central Asian instability causes terrorism, and nuclear war**Ahrari, Prof of National Security @ the Armed Forces Staff College,2001 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">M. EHSAN AHRARI has been Professor of National Security and Strategy of the School at the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk, Virginia, Visiting Scholar at the Hoover, author of eight books and dozens of articles in professional journals in the United States, United Kingdom, Norway, and, India. __Jihadi Groups, Nuclear Pakistan and the New Great Game,__ </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/ssi/jihadi.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, August 2001)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">South and Central Asia constitute a part of the world where...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">thus representing a gain for all concerned. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**2.Independently, perception of Pakistanian instability causes preemptive strike by India.**</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Ricks 01<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War’s Costs, Consequences,” The Washington Post, 10/21, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer|__http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer__]])</span></span><span style="background-color: yellow; display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">The prospect of Pakistan being taken...Sam Gardiner, an expert on strategic games.</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Indo-Pak war causes extinction, devastates the ecosphere, and is highly probably**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">ThaiIndian News 8 (<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">ThaiIndian News, “India-Pakistan nuclear war would spell global calamity: study,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[[http://www.thaindian.com/newsportal/uncategorized/india-pakistan-nuclear-war-would-spell-global-calamity-study_10035636.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">A brief nuclear war between India and ...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in the US, told IANS</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**3. Shifts in production to Central Asia upsets US oil interests and causes oil shocks**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">**Felbab-Brown**</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">**10**</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, a shift of </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">opium poppy...<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">weakening their already minimal cooperation.</span></span>__</span>
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">These devastate the economy and lead to a financial collapse</span> </span></span>**
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Marconi ’09 </span>**</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Did High Oil Prices cause the Financial Crash?” By GIUSEPPE MARCONI for OIL-PRICE.NET, 2009/11/18; http://www.oil-price.net/en/articles/did-high-oil-prices-cause-financial-crash.php</span></span><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Date Accessed: July 14, 2010</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">This year</span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">, Professor James Hamilton... </span>__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">are currently trying to recover from</span></span></span></span>
**Extinction**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">T.E.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Bearden**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">, LTC U.S. Army (Retired),</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**2000**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">[“The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly,” http://www.freerepublic.com/forum/a3aaf97f22e23.htm, June 24]</span></span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">History bears out that **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">desperate nations ...</span>**</span>__</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">at least for many decades.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: left; text-decoration: none;">**Thus the Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw all forces conducting counternarcotics operations in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.** **Observation Five is Solvency**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">US commitment is key to all counternarcotic efforts—Afghan government has neither resources nor motivation</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**USDS**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, United States Department of State, office of Inspector General, Middle East Regional Office, December 20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 12pt;">**09**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, “Status of the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Counternarcotics Programs in Afghanistan ”, Performance Audit, [[http://oig.state.gov/documents/organization/134183.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.3in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">The Department has not clarified an end state ...</span></span>__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Government funding not be sustainable at current levels.</span>__</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**No alternatives: Interdiction, crop substitution, and economic development all fail**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Carpenter, 2k4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, is the author or editor of 16 books on international affairs, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror” CATO Institute, 11/10/04, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb84.pdf]])</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">That is especially true of the Pashtun ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and may open new areas to drug cultivation.34 </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Cutting back on counter-narcotics enforcement solves corruption.** </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Caulkins, Kleiman, and Kulick, June 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jonathan P. Caulkins, Mark A.R. Kleiman, Jonathan D. Kulick, Caulkins is a professor of operations research and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University, Kleiman is a professor of public policy at the UCLA school of public affairs, and Kulick is the Director of studies at the Georgia Foundation of Strategic and International Studies, [“Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan,” NYU Center on International Cooperation, available at: </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>__The value to traffickers of corrupting ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">jurisdiction than law enforcement agencies.43 </span>__</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**2010 is key – Afghanistan insurgency is at the tipping point.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Smith, 2010**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[Mark S., Associated Press – Correspondent, June 26, “Obama, Brit Leader: Afghanistan in critical period,” [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5isOFwdbq0tsqatW6vJpkDRTI1gMgD9GJ5FH80]]] </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">TORONTO — President Barack Obama and British Prime ...</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">war is considered at a tipping point</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span><span style="background-color: yellow; display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">﻿</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Violence massively increasing now.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**VOA, 6-24** </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">[2010, “Deadliest Month for International Troops in Afghanistan,” http://www1.voanews.com/english/news/asia/Deadliest-Month-for-International-Troops-in-Afghanistan-97060264.html</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">June has become the deadliest month for</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 8pt;"> ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">vehicle hit a bomb in Uruzgan province Wednesday. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Ending CN is key to winning overall war in middle east**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Carpenter 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ted Galen, “How the Drug War in Afghanistan Undermines America’s War on Terror”, Nov 10, Foreign Policy Briefing, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/fpbriefs/fpb84.pdf]]</span> , date accessed: 6/21/2010) AJK</span> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The war on drugs is interfering ...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">way of life, and that would be most unfortunate.”2 </span></span>__**</span>
====<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> Glenbrooks</span>==== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw all of its forces conducting counternarcotics operations in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.</span>**</span>


Observation 1 is Inherency
**Status quo counternarcotics policy is interdiction**
**Common Sense 11-13** (November 13, 2010, Common Sense, “Pentagon Adds Afghan Drug Traffickers to Hitlist Despite International Concerns Over Legality”, http://www.csdp.org/news/new/Afghanistan.htm)
Last year - well before the __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Obama</span>__...Of course we're angry at the government."

**Obama's interdiction policies have increased opium production**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Tse 10 (Hillson Tse, University of British Columbia, Vancouver BC, A Focused and Targeted Expansion of NATO and ISAF Involvement in Afghanistan Counternarcotics Operations Spring 2010, A worldwide journal of politics, Pg. 19-24)</span>
Since the collapse of the Taliban in 2001,...livelihoods of a large proportion of Afghan farmers

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Put away your perception DAs— Obama’s 2014 timetable won’t affect counternarcotics, but it’s enough to trigger your links**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Dolan 11-10 (Eric W. Dolan, Wednesday, November 10th, 2010, White House sets new Afghan deadline for 2014, http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2010/11/white-house-push-afghan-deadline-2014/)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> The new policy is to be unveiled at a NATO<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">...Afghanistan,"</span> an official told AFP.</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Afghani Instability Advantage**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**CN strengthens the Taliban in two ways:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**1. Political support – CN missions encourage farmers to go to the Taliban for trafficking and protection** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Vanda </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**Felbab-Brown**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**10**</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]]</span> </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Reinvigorated by a number of factors...</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">physically drives them into the hands of the Taliban. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**2**</span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">. </span><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">**Government corruption – officials get leverage for bribes**</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Jonathan <span class="Author-Date">Goodhand</span> Senior Lecturer in the Department of Development Studies, School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London <span class="Author-Date">08</span> ( “ Corrupting or Consolidating the Peace? The Drugs Economy and Post-conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Peacebuilding in Afghanistan” June 23 [[http://pdfserve.informaworld.com/903095__793322435.pdf]] 7/22/10) </span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0.1in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">It has been argued that by focusing ... </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__governments into a lethal confrontation with drug cartels’.77__</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**This devastates counterinsurgency efforts and collapses the weak Karzai government**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 9pt; text-align: justify;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan” <span style="color: black;">http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perhaps nowhere in the world does the presence </span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">...goal of narcotics suppression.</span>

**Instability in Afghanistan destabilizes all of Central Asia**
Reuters 9 (Ivan Kalburov 
November 25, 2009, Reuters, <span style="color: black;">http://www.moveoneinc.com/blog/asia/instability-may-spread-from-afghanistan-to-central-asia/</span>)
Afghanistan’s Taliban may seek to establish a foothold<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">...channels for coalition forces.</span>’

**Instability in central Asia escalates to nuclear war**
**Ahrari 9** ( Eshan-, professor of national security and strategy @ Armed Forces Staff College, 1
, August, online, p. 41 www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/Pubs/display.cfm?pubID=112) ET
**__South and Central Asia constitute a part__** ...representing a gain for all concerned.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt; text-decoration: none;">Observation Three is Terrorism</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The opium economy sustains and fuels terrorism**</span>
Tse 10 (Hillson Tse, University of British Columbia, Vancouver BC, A Focused and Targeted Expansion of NATO and ISAF Involvement in Afghanistan Counternarcotics Operations Spring 2010, A worldwide journal of politics, Pg. 19-24)
There are two main challenges to the NATO mission...district chiefs and local police2

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Al Qaeda will take over a dozen countries and transform them into nuclear launch sites for an attack on the US. The US will be forced into multiple preemptive wars.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: -13.5pt;">Marvin <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cetron</span></span>, President of Forecasting International, 20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">07</span></span> (U.S. News and World Report has identified Dr. Marvin Cetron as one of the nation's foremost futurists. Cetron spent 20 years in research and development planning and forecasting with the U.S. Navy), “Defeating Terrorism: Is It Possible? Is It Probable?” The Futurist May-June 2007, pg. 23-25] </span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terrorists will gain weapons of mass destruction</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">...The alternatives are too grim to contemplate</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span></span>

**Production Shift Advantage**

<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Expanded interdiction causes vertical integration and consolidation of trafficking groups**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, Research Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, August, 20<span class="Author-Date">07</span>, [[@http://www3.brookings.edu/fp/research/felbab-brown200708.pdf]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Although </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">__interdiction__</span></span> <span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">does not target ...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__if not outright tribal violence__</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">__﻿__</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**They will relocate to Pakistan and topple the government – the worst scenario possible**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”[[http://www.brookings.edu/%7E/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf|http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.3in 0pt 0in;">__<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">By far the worst scenario from...</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Baluchistan, and Punjab are all areas with minimal employment opportunities</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Drug production is inevitable- interdiction would just shift it elsewhere</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: justify;">Jonathan P. <span class="Author-Date">Caulkin et al.</span>, prof. of Operations Research and Public Policy at Carnegie Mellon , co-director of RAND’s Drug Policy Research Center, author of several books on narcotics, 6/20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> [Mark A.R. Kleiman, prof of Public Policy at UCLA School of Public Affairs and was professors at several other universities prior; Jonathan D. Kulick, Research director at Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies, policy analyst at RAND, and researcher at IBM; “Drug Production and trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan” from NYU’s Center on International Cooperation, pdf pg. 7]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It does not follow, however, that one can generalize from...including drug production.</span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: -13.5pt; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**We’ll isolate three impact scenarios****1. Civil war with the Pashtuns that pulls in Lebanon, Palestine, and Iraq**</span><span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Stephen J. <span class="Author-Date">Morgan</span>, former member of the British Labour Party Exectutive Committee. He is a political psychologist, researcher into Chaos/Complexity Theory, 9/23/<span class="Author-Date">07 </span>“Better another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!?”, [[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span><span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: -4.5pt; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify; text-indent: 4.5pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Although the Pashtuns are more closely linked to tribal and clan loyalty...</span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 10pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">China and Russia pitted against the US.</span>__</span></span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**Central Asian instability causes terrorism, and nuclear war**Ahrari, Prof of National Security @ the Armed Forces Staff College,2001 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">M. EHSAN AHRARI has been Professor of National Security and Strategy of the School at the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk, Virginia, Visiting Scholar at the Hoover, author of eight books and dozens of articles in professional journals in the United States, United Kingdom, Norway, and, India. __Jihadi Groups, Nuclear Pakistan and the New Great Game,__ </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[[http://www.au.af.mil/au/awc/awcgate/ssi/jihadi.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, August 2001)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">South and Central Asia constitute a part of the world where...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">thus representing a gain for all concerned. </span></span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: -1.8pt; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**2. Perception of Pakistanian instability causes preemptive strike by India.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Ricks 01**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Thomas, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War’s Costs, Consequences,” The Washington Post, 10/21, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer|__http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer__]])</span></span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The prospect of Pakistan being taken </span>...an expert on strategic games.

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Indo-Pak war causes extinction, devastates the ecosphere, and is highly probably**</span>
**ThaiIndian News 8** (ThaiIndian News, “India-Pakistan nuclear war would spell global calamity: study,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.thaindian.com/newsportal/uncategorized/india-pakistan-nuclear-war-would-spell-global-calamity-study_10035636.html]]</span>)
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A brief nuclear war between India and Pakistan </span>__...National Academy of Sciences in the US, told IANS

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**3. Shifts in production to Central Asia upsets US oil interests and causes oil shocks**</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; text-align: justify;">Vanda <span class="Author-Date">Felbab-Brown</span>, prof in the Security Studies Program @ Georgetown University and Foreign Policy Fellow @ Brookings Institution, May 20<span class="Author-Date">10</span> “The Drug-Conflict Nexus in South Asia: Beyond Taliban Profits and Afghanistan”<span style="color: black;">http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/papers/2010/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown/05_regional_counternarcotics_felbabbrown.pdf</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Finally, a shift of __opium poppy cultivation__</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">...weakening their already minimal cooperation.</span>__

<span class="citesChar">Meacher 2008</span> (Michael, Guardian.co.uk staff writer, “The era of oil wars”, Guardian.co.uk, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/jun/29/oil.oilandgascompanies, June 29, 2008)
Gordon Brown meeting Britain's oil chiefs to discuss higher <span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">...between the US and the Soviet Union". </span></span>

<span class="underlinedChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Observation 5 is Solvency</span></span>

**Cutting back on counter-narcotics enforcement solves corruption.**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Caulkins, Kleiman, and Kulick, June 2010** [Jonathan P. Caulkins, Mark A.R. Kleiman, Jonathan D. Kulick, Caulkins is a professor of operations research and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University, Kleiman is a professor of public policy at the UCLA school of public affairs, and Kulick is the Director of studies at the Georgia Foundation of Strategic and International Studies, [“Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan,” NYU Center on International Cooperation, available at: <span style="color: black;">http://www.cic.nyu.edu/</span>] </span>

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The value to traffickers of corrupting enforcement </span>__...jurisdiction than law enforcement agencies.43 

**Absent an end to interdiction, every other NATO policy in Afghanistan will fail**
**__Felbab-Brown__****, Foreign Policy Fellow at Brookings, __‘7__**
(Vanda, Foreign Policy Fellow at the Brookings Institute, adjunct professor of security studies at Georgetown, trilingual (French, Czech, and English), February 20, 2007, “Afghanistan’s Opium Wars,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2007/0220afghanistan_felbab-brown.aspx</span>) 
__Participating in interdiction__...interdiction unite, not NATO

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">A US withdrawal would stop Afghan interdiction- they have no resources or funding</span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">USDS</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, United States Department of State, office of Inspector General, Middle East Regional Office, December 20<span class="Author-Date">09</span>, “Status of the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Counternarcotics Programs in Afghanistan ”, Performance Audit, <span style="color: black;">http://oig.state.gov/documents/organization/134183.pdf</span></span>
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Many individuals involved</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 12pt;">...funding not be sustainable at current levels.</span></span>

**Karzai’s backlash against last month’s US-Russian raid proves Afghanistan wouldn’t pursue its own raids**
King 10 (Laura King, Los Angeles Times, Karzai denounces drug raid in Afghanistan, October 31, 2010, <span style="color: black;">http://articles.latimes.com/2010/oct/31/world/la-fg-afghanistan-karzai-20101031</span>)
Reporting from Kabul, Afghanistan ...raid and report back to him

**Licensing would boost the Taliban, kill Afghan stability, and cause over-reliance on opium which kills the Afghan economy**
U.S. **State Department**, Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, February 20, **2007**, online: http://www.state.gov/p/inl/rls/rpt/80734.htm, accessed October 15, 2007
**__Legalization is__** ultimately **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">counterproductive</span>__****__...dangerously reliant on one commodity__**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">-**Alternate livelihood programs fail- hundreds of millions have already been invested**</span>
**L**os **A**ngeles **Times**, November 12, **2006**
The country's gross domestic product...U.N. said in early September

<span style="margin-right: 22.5pt;">**There is no medical morphine shortage, and Afghan poppies aren’t the right kind of opium**</span>
Steve **Rolles**, Information Officer for The Transform Drug Policy Foundation, May 18, **2007**, online: http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=5684, accessed October 15, 2007
Firstly, **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">the medical opium 'shortage'</span>__****__....could seriously be entertained__**.



===<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">2AC - DA</span>=== 


====India Relations==== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">US-India relations are resilient- military interdependence and arms sales </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Stokes 10 (Bruce Stokes, THE U.S. AND INDIA: FRIENDSHIP, WARILY, National Journal, 02/13/2010, http://www.cnas.org/node/4111) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Ov__er the past half-century,...__deepen military interdependence. </span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">No link uniqueness-disputes over Afghanistan now haven’t killed the partnership </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Smith 8/20 (Jeff M., Kraemer Strategy Fellow at the American Foreign Policy Council, the Diplomat, "How to Fix US-India Ties", 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; text-decoration: none;">[[http://the-diplomat.com/2010/08/20/how-to-fix-us-india-ties/4/]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">And then there’s Pakistan. ...tensions and encourage Pakistani countermeasures.’</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Plan increases relations- India’s number one priority is Pakistani stability </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Stokes 10 (Bruce Stokes, THE U.S. AND INDIA: FRIENDSHIP, WARILY, National Journal, 02/13/2010, http://www.cnas.org/node/4111) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">They also worry that ...just been deployed against India.”</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kaplan is a hack and an amateur imperialist. A US withdrawal from Afghanistan doesn’t devastate Indian relations </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Wellen 10 (Russ Wellen, September 22, 2010, Foreign Policy in Focus,Would a U.S. Withdrawal From Afghanistan Drive India Into China's arms?http://www.fpif.org/blog/would_a_us_withdrawal_from_afghanistan_drive_india_into_chinas_arms?q=Tag%3AGenocide) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kaplan's use of the word ...</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">argue for a particular course of action.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The non-proliferation agreement strains relations more than the plan </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Stokes 10 (Bruce Stokes, THE U.S. AND INDIA: FRIENDSHIP, WARILY, National Journal, 02/13/2010, http://www.cnas.org/node/4111) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">India’s stance on nuclear weapons fueled ...we continue to be committed to full nuclear disarmament.”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Relations resilient- shared goals</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kumar 9</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Arum, staff writer Headlines India, "US and India poised to become global partners", June 26, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[[http://headlinesindia.mapsofindia.com/india-and-world/united-states/us-and-india-poised-to-become-global-partners-15116.html]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, JS) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Washington**:** With the India-US civil nuclear deal establishing a new ...cooperation across a broad range of shared interests." </span>

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Obama already working to strengthen relations over Afghanistan</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">9/10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (“Emerging global player India essential to solving regional challenges: US”, 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[[http://overseasindian.in/2010/sept/news/20101009-100824.shtml]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;">Washington, Sep 10 Describing India as an emerging global ...that can have an impact on reducing regional tensions." </span>
===2AC - Topicality=== 
====Substantially==== 
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**CN make up 90,000 troops**</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**UPI ‘9**</span> [3/26, [["http://www.upi.com/Top_News/2009/03/26/More-US-|http://www.upi.com/Top_News/2009/03/26/More-US-troops-to-Afghanistan/UPI-43231238073414/]]]</span>
<span style="font: 11px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">__The authorization last month...__local government institutions. </span>

<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**Counternarcotic forces are Police Presence**</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">Marc <span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**Emery 2009**</span> [http://loopylettuce.wordpress.com/2009/12/18/dea-manipulation-in-canada-and-abroad/]</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">The Drug Enforcement Agency (<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman';">__DEA) is...__</span>but covert <span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman';">__illegal operations are frequent.__</span></span>

<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**There are 130 Federal Police in Afghanistan**</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**CIGI ‘9**</span> [November, [[http://www.operationspaix.net/IMG/pdf/CIGI_SSRMonitor_Afghanistan_Nov2009.pdf]]]</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">As illustrated in Figure 5, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10px;">__...__</span>(International aid organization official, 2009d). </span>

<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**81 of those are DEA Agents Doing Counter-Narcotics; that’s 61%** </span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">Kenneth <span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**Katzman**</span>, @ congressional Research Service,<span style="font: 12px Georgia;"> **10** </span>[July 11, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL30588.pdf]</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">The U.S. military...from 13 agents now <span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman';">__to 68 in September 2009, and then to 81 in 2010__</span>, with additional agents in Pakistan. </span>

<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**And/Or means you can do either**</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 10px Georgia;">**Pocket Fowler's Modern English Usage, 2008**</span>, Ed. Robert Allen, Oxford Reference Online </span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman';">__and/or is a formula ...__</span>‘or’ by itself will do.</span>

<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**C/I - Substantially- to a great or significant extent.**</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**Compact Oxford English Dictionary, 8** (“substantially”, 2008, http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/substantially?view=uk)</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">Substantially adverb 1 to a great or significant extent. 2 for the most part; essentially.</span>

<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**W/M the C/I- counternarcotics are the most significant mission in Afghanistan**</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">Emmanuel <span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**Reinert**</span>, Execuritve Director of the Selnis Council, <span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**‘7**</span> [www.nato-pa.int/Docdownload.asp?ID=235B2DFBB303020478]</span>
<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">__This **should be a major concern for...**the success of NATO’s mission in Afghanistan.__</span>

<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**T- substantial is uniquely arbitrary – don’t vote on it - impossible to quantify ground loss as a percentage and the military has no definition for it** </span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**MilitaryDictionary.org 2008**</span>, http://www.military-dictionary.org/substantial cp</span>
<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">__Definition Of: **Substantial There is no definition for this term.**__</span>
=Negative= 
==<span style="font-size: 14px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 21px;">**Michigan Round 4**</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 14px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 21px;">**Case--Proliferation**</span>=== 


<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Nuclear weapons de-escalate conflicts—deter full war**</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**Gartzke**</span>, Professor of political science, Columbia, and Kroenig, asst. Professor, Georgetown, <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**08**</span></span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">(Erik and Matthew, A strategic approach to nuclear proliferation, [["http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&v|http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBoQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fbelfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu%2Ffiles%2Fuploads%2FEditors_A_Strategic_Approach_to_Nuclear_Proliferation.pdf&ei=7gwpTPO-PMPvnQf1huCoAQ&usg=AFQjCNHwvajw7wcs4YacWUeJDEWVe2VeTw&sig2=fNjVvwNZYdk_ImJpKaC_jQ]]<span style="font: 11px 'Times New Roman';">,</span> 11/09/08) </span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px; min-height: 12px;">__<Robert Rauchhaus employs...of large-scale international violence.__ >]</span>


<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Prolif good—Allows for conflict deterrence, not use**</span>
<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Waltz, Professor of political science, UC Berkley, 07**</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">(Ken, ”A nuclear Iran”, <span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman';">__Journal of international affairs,__</span> Spring/summer 2007, Vol. 60 Issue 2)</span>
<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px 0px 0px 7.2px;"><Richard Betts: Ken, would Iranian ... one purpose and only one purpose, and that's deterrence.></span>

<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Prolif good-- escalates security, and increases diplomacy**</span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">Gartzke, Professor of political science, Columbia, and Kroenig, asst. Professor, Georgetown, 08 </span>
<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">(Erik and Matthew, A strategic approach to nuclear proliferation, [["http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBoQFjAA&url=http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/uploads/Editors_A_Strategi|http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBoQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fbelfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu%2Ffiles%2Fuploads%2FEditors_A_Strategic_Approach_to_Nuclear_Proliferation.pdf&ei=7gwpTPO-PMPvnQf1huCoAQ&usg=AFQjCNHwvajw7wcs4YacWUeJDEWVe2VeTw&sig2=fNjVvwNZYdk_ImJpKaC_jQ]], 11/09/08)// </span>
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px; min-height: 12px;">__<We begin with two simple observations...the nuclear proliferation literature. >__</span>//


//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**New nuclear states does not mean destabilization or miscalsulation** </span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**Wesley**</span><span style="font: 11px Georgia;">, Executive Director of the Lowy Institute for International Policy, </span><span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**2005**</span><span style="font: 11px Georgia;"> (Michael, Australian Journal of International Affairs, September, “It’s Time To Scrap the NPT,” EBSCO, Date Accessed: June 26, 2010, p. 292)</span></span>//

//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 11px Georgia;"> Another concern is that by...</span>__than other nuclear weapons states’__<span style="font: 11px Georgia;"> (2001: 133). </span></span>//

//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Prolif won’t spill over-- disincentives**</span>//
//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Waltz, Professor of political science, UC Berkley, 07**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">(Ken, “A nuclear Iran”, <span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman';">__Journal of international affairs,__</span> Spring/summer 2007, Vol. 60 Issue 2)</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 5px 0px;"><Kenneth Waltz: I think that is a rather revisionist view of history...having nuclear weapons.> </span>//

===<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">//Case--Iran Prolif//</span>=== 

//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Too many alternative causes to Iran militarization- economics, borders, and religion**</span>//
//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Beehner and Bruno 8** (Lionel and Greg, Lionel – term member and former senior writer at the Council on Foreign Relations and Geg – staff writer @ Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), CFR, 3/3/8, http://www.cfr.org/publication/12521/irans_involvement_in_iraq.html) </span>//
//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">Military. The Quds Force, a special operations...__Those relationships continue to dominate Iraqi politics in Baghdad.__</span>//

//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Iran wont expand – US deterrence, weak economy, and national interests**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**Newby 10 (**</span>Vanessa, PhD candidate @ Griffith Asi Inst., published @ Lowy Inst. For Intl Policy, </span>//
//<span style="font: 11px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2010/03/19/Reader-riposte-Iran-as-regional-power.aspx) </span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 11px 'Times New Roman';">Raoul </span>__Heinrichs__<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman';"> [[http://www.lowyinterpreter.org/post/2010/03/12/Between-Iraq-and-a-hard-place.aspx%22%20%5Ct%20%22_blank|__makes a good point__]]</span> __about the potential...__have a lot of economic leverage over Iraq in the future.</span>//

//<span style="font: 11px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px; min-height: 12px;">**Even if Iran militarizes, it won’t wont spread nukes**</span>//

//<span style="font: 11px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**Hemmer 7**</span> (Christopher, Associate Prof of Int’l Security Studies @ Air War College, PhD @Cornell University with a specialty in Intl Relations, Parameters, August 2007 ed., Find Articles, </span>//
//<span style="font: 11px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0IBR/is_3_37/ai_n24325406/pg_7/?tag=content;col1) </span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 11px 'Times New Roman';">There has also been a good deal of international media...lose control over the employment of the weapons while still having to worry that they </span>__might be blamed and targeted for response__</span>//

//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**5. Credibility of the NPT is Low, Won’t Stop Proliferation**</span>//
//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**Rigg, former chairman of the New Zealand National Consultative Committee on Disarmament, 09**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">(Bob, Smoke and mirrors in nuclear Middle East, <span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman';">__The Dominion Post__</span>, 12-18, Lexis Nexis, 6/26/10)</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px 0px 0px 7.2px;"><Iran co-operates with the IAEA,...continue to increase as the credibility of the NPT is frittered away.></span>//


===<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">//Case--Israel Strikes//</span>=== 

//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**Israel won’t strike Iran now or in the future**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">Jonathan F. <span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**Keiler**</span> Author for the American Thinker <span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**7/25**</span>/10 “Surprise! Why An Israeli Strike on Iran is Unlikely” http://www.americanthinker.com/2010/07/surprise_why_an_israeli_strike.html</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">__If the Israelis were serious about attacking Iran,...complex reasons that they were restrained__. </span>//

//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**Israel won’t strike Iran, no US support and opposition by Netanyahu**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;"><span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**World Tribune**</span>, only solely international US newspaper, <span style="font: 12px Georgia;">**7/9**</span>/10 “Obama expects 'no surprises': Israel won't strike Iran without U.S. permission” http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2010/ss_israel0634_07_09.asp</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10px;">__The president__, who has pursued a reconciliation policy...</span>requested by Israel.</span>//

==//CPs//== 

===<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">//**Kandahar**//</span>=== 


//<span style="font: 11px Helvetica; margin: 0px;">**The USFG should withdraw all troops not involved in stabilizing Kandahar.**</span>//


//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**US-Canada relations are strained but the joint Kandahar offensive is keeping the alliance afloat**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**O'Hanlon,10** (Michael E. O'Hanlon, Director of Research and Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">The Globe and Mail, Brookings, Kandahar is What the Canada-U.S. Alliance is All About, April 2010, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0401_canada_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx?rssid=afghanistan&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+BrookingsRSS%2Ftopics%2Fafghanistan+%28Brookings%3A+Topics+-+Afghanistan%29)</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">Watching from my vantage point in Washington…even if it works exactly according to script.</span>//

//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**Bilateral cooperation is key to ensuring the success of the mission- absent this, Afghanistan will fall to the Taliban**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**WSJ 10** (Wall Street Journal, 01 February 10, Task Force Kandahar – Troops from Canada and America Deployed in a ' Super Brigade ' to Defend Kandahar Area , http://www.casr.ca/ft-task-force-kandahar-1.htm)</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">Each spring as the weather warms up…potential recruits for the insurgency busy digging canals and constructing roads.</span>//

//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**A relations collapse would destabilize NORAD**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**TREASSURY BOARD OF CANADA SECRETARIAT, 2k4**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">Canada's prosperity.. Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).http://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/report/govrev/04/cp-rc2-eng.asp) </span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">__Canada's prosperity and security …__and Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).</span>//

//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**Any risk of accidental launch leads to extinction**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">**HARRELL, 2K8**</span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">(EBEN, TIME, “STILL TRAINING FOR THE END OF THE WORLD,” FRIDAY JUNE 27TH, [[http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1818559,00.html]]) </span>//
//<span style="font: 11px Georgia; margin: 0px;">On May 13, in apparent confirmation of the facility's obsolescence, …__Mountain carries a heavy burden__</span>//

==//DAs//== 

===//ABLs//=== 

//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**A. Funding For the Airborne Laser Has Been Cut – It Can Be Revived**</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">Stephen <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**Trimble**</span>, @ Flight International, 2/17/<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**10** </span>[Airborne Laser faces uncertain future despite historic intercept test, [[http://www.flightglobal.com/articles/2010/02/17/338475/airborne-laser-faces-uncertain-future-despite-historic-intercept.html]]]</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px 0px 0px 21.6px;">__The Airborne Laser Testbed...__budget request, he says. </span>//

//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**B. Iraq Withdrawal Tanks Contractors – They’d Be Compensated With Future Weapon Systems**</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">David <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**Bogoslaw**</span>, @ Business Week, <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**‘8**</span> [August 23, A New Front for Defense Contractors, [[http://www.businessweek.com/print/investor/content/aug2008/pi20080822_702066.htm]]]</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px 0px 0px 21.6px;">__It's unclear just...effective lobbying efforts **by the** industry, he says9__</span>//

//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**C. Congress and Contractors Will Demand ABL**</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">Riki <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**Ellison**</span>, Chairman and Founder of the Missile Defense Advocacy Alliance, <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">2/15**/10** </span>[http://www.defpro.com/news/details/13147/]</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px 0px 0px 21.6px;">"President __Obama and...__allies' necessary protection." </span>//


//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**D. ABL Ensures a Directed Energy Weapon Arms Race** </span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">Paul <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**Rogers**</span>, Professor of Government at Bradford University, <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**‘2**</span> [Directed energy: a new kind of weapon, [[http://www.opendemocracy.net/conflict/article_153.jsp]]]</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px 0px 0px 21.6px;">__The United States...this is not to be discounted.__ </span>//


//<span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">**E. Extinction Ensures – Accidents and Pre-emption**</span>//
//<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px;">Jeff <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**Hech**</span>, M.Ed. Higher Education –MA in Electronic Engineering - Editor @ Laser Focus World, <span style="font: 12px 'Times New Roman';">**’84** </span>[</span>//Beam Weapons: The Next Arms Race//, p. 10-11]
<span style="font: 10px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0px 0px 0px 21.6px;">It’s only appropriate...__escalation to World War III.__</span>

===CPGS=== 

<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">**Withdrawal Causes a Shift Towards CPGS**</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">__Diasaku**, Sakaguchi, Research Fellow, 2nd Research Office, Research Department, the National Institute for Defense Studies,** 09 **(“The Realignment of U.S. Forces in Japan and its Impact on**__<span style="font: 14.0px 'Times New Roman';"> </span>__**the Interdependent Relationship between Japan and the U.S.” NIDS Security Reports, No.10 December 2009, pp 40-41)ZDM**__</span>
<span style="font: 10.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 21.6px;">Accompanying the end of the Cold War...<span style="font: 11.0px 'Times New Roman';">backdrop to this concept also.</span><span style="font: 7.0px 'Times New Roman';">40</span></span>

<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">**CPGS Turns case – Its key to our global influence and furthers our colonial projects**</span>
<span style="font: 12.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px;">__**J. Marshall** Beier**, Prof. of Poli Sci. @ McMaster Univ., ‘**7 **[Disarming Politics: Arms, Agency, and the (Post)Politics of Disarmament Advocacy,** [["http://www.cpsa-a|**http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2007/Beier.pdf**]]**]**__</span>

<span style="font: 10.0px 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 21.6px;">As compelling as it is, however,...__to those against whom they are targeted.__</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]