[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Round 1 South Korea Withdrawal Aff**</span>== 

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Text: The United States federal government should gradually but completely withdraw United States Forces Korea. </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Observation One: Inherency </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">28,500 troops are stationed on the Korean Peninsula in the status quo </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Lasseter 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Tom, 6/21, Staffwriter, “Sixty years after war broke out, Korean peninsula still in limbo, accessed 6/21,</span><span style="color: blue;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/06/21/96276/sixty-years-after-war-broke-out.html]]</span></span><span style="color: black;">, JH)

The conflict that began in ….__standoff will end soon.__ </span>

**<span style="color: black;">U.S. just extended OpCon until 2015, reflecting heightened tensions because of the ship sinking and increasing US provocations on the peninsula. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Chan and Calmes, </span>**<span style="color: black;">NYT writers, **2010** (Sewell and Jackie-, //New York Times//, June 27, p. 8) ncp

President Obama said Saturday that ….react to sanctions and other punishment. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Advantage One—Korean Conflict.</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">War on the Korean peninsula is inevitable in the status quo—there are at least three potential triggers</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">First, sixty years of US policy and rhetoric has created the tension that exists on the Korean peninsula—the entire situation is a construction borne out of the post world war two and cold war power politics. The US constructs North Korea as a rogue state. – creates a self fulfilling prophecy </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Bleiker</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Ph.D. international relations from the Australian National University, Jul **2003** (Roland, “A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis”, International Affairs, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3569570]]</span> DA: 18/05/2010 pg. 4 jb, sob)

The central argument of this article ….solely to North Korea's actions. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">The Demonization of North Korea simplifies and marginalizes the Koreas, risking the very conflict the troops are intended to prevent </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Cumings 2005</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 487-88) ncp

The point is not that North Korea … war might not escalate to a regional if not a global holocaust. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Second, Despite the concept of deterrence and because of the mere presence of US troops, conflict could erupt on the Korean peninsula. There is not enough information or dialogue on both sides risking miscalculation </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Pollack 2009 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Jonathan D., professor of Asian and Pacific Studies and chairman of the Asia-Pacific Studies Group at the Naval War College, The Washington Quarterly: Kim Jong-il’s Clenched Fist, pg. 169, October 2009, accessed June 22, 2010, FS TS)

Fifth, despite the persistence … conversation in this area remains woefully underdeveloped. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">North Korean aggression causes U.S. nuclear retaliation---sparks global conflict </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Horween 9</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Matt ,certified public accountant and former commissioned U.S. Foreign Service Officer for the U.S. Agency for International Development, , “Time to Remove U.S. Troops From South Korea”, </span><span style="color: blue;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.thestreet.com/story/10555800/opinion-time-to-remove-us-troops-from-south-korea.html]]</span></span><span style="color: black;"> accessed july 18 2010.

If North Korea decides to ….. the Philippines in World War II. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Third, The U.S. military presence emboldens South Korea and greenlights military action provocation </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Bandow, 8</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan (6/9/2008, Doug, “Ending the U.S.-Korea Alliance,” </span><span style="color: blue;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=17812]]</span></span><span style="color: black;">)

Still, does an American presence dampen …… __will enable it to deter U.S. intervention.__ </span>

**<span style="color: black;">The recent ship sinking incident provides South Korea with a motive to start the conflict—retaliation sparks escalatory war </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Bandow, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (4/18/10, Doug, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” </span><span style="color: blue;"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html]]</span></span><span style="color: black;">)

It has been weeks since …. defend its own personnel. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Only a commitment to decrease US presence on the Korean peninsula sends the necessary signal of US commitment to peace which reduces North Korean threat perceptions and prevents all-out war in Asia </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Hui, 9</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Zhang, Research Associate at the Project on Managing the Atom in the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, June 2009, “Don’t play nuclear chicken with a desperate pariah,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nuclearno.com/text.asp?13773]]</span>, Date Accessed July 13, 2010

In retaliation for tightened …. security assurances and guarantees </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Presumption of History- when Jimmy Carter offered the plan back in the 1970s it worked- North Korea offered to reciprocate and move toward rapproachment </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Cumings</span>**<span style="color: black;"> Professor of History University of Chicago, **2005** (Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago,//Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History//, p. 474) SH

When the Carter administration (…. south once Korea was unified. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Advantage Two—Korean Nuclearization</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">US military presence and current US policies toward the Korean Peninsula encourage nuclearization. We will isolate several internal links. First, the rhetorical strategy of deterrence, militarization, and nuclear blackmail has contributed to North Korean militarization </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Cumings 2005</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 497) ncp

From the Korean War onward, …. U.S. pressure and ROK initiatives. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Empirically, longtime U.S. nuclear threats made North Korean nuclear proliferation inevitable </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Cumings</span>**<span style="color: black;"> Professor of History University of Chicago, **2005** (Bruce-, Professor of History – University of Chicago, Korea’s Place in the Sun: A Modern History, p. 470-71) ncp

If we assume that …. no such weapons itself. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Second, China views Military Presence as an attempt to contain it resulting in strained relations and backlash undermining negotiations and multilateral cooperation </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Dumbaugh 09</span>**<span style="color: black;"> Kerry Bumbaugh Specialist in Asian Affairs for the Congressional Research Service “China-U.S. Relations: Current Issues and Implications for U.S. Policy” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://italy.usembassy.gov/pdf/other/R40457.pdf]]</span> </span>

<span style="color: #232021;">From this perspective, U.S. policy …. community may see as out of step with global trends.</span>



**<span style="color: black;">Provoking China and the presence of US troops in South Korea raise Chinese threat perceptions---means they’ll undermine Six Party Talks to keep North Korean nuclear weapons as a buffer. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Lin 10</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Christina Lin, PHD and is a visiting fellow at AICGS and researcher for Jane's Information Group, March 2010, “CHINA, IRAN, AND NORTH KOREA: A TRIANGULAR STRATEGIC ALLIANCE,” online: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.gloria-center.org/meria/2010/03/lin.html]]</span>

A 2006 article by Shen Dingli, executive director of both the International Studies Institute and the Center for American Studies at Fudan University, laid out the strategic significance of …. to be the “Israel of East Asia.”[75] </span>




**<span style="color: black;">Chinese cooperation key to successful denuclearization and stability. </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Pritchard</span>**<span style="color: black;">, et al. **’10.** (Charles L. Pritchard, John H. Tilelli Jr., Scott A. Snyder, President of the Korea Economic Institute (KEI) & former visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution; Tilelli = degree in economics from Widener University; Snyder = Adjunct Senior Fellow for Korea Studies at Council on Foreign Relations, June 2010, “U.S. Policy Toward the Korean Peninsula,” Independent Task Force Report No. 64, Council on Foreign Relations, __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/22205/us_policy_toward_the_korean_peninsula.html?breadcrumb=/region/478/northeast_asia]]</span>__, Date Accessed: June 25, 2010, CC)

Chinese cooperation is essential ……aspirations to rollback. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Third, US policy and rhetoric concerning the Korean peninsula makes negotiation impossible </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Bleiker</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Ph.D. in international relations from the Australian National University, Jul **2003** (Roland, “A rogue is a rogue is a rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis”, International Affairs, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3569570]]</span> DA: 18/05/2010 pg.15 jb, sob)

Once again, the world is divided into 'good' and 'evil'; ….. "fruitful, regional, multilateral negotiation".'63 </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Promoting a climate of negotiation such as bilateral and multilateral talks including the six party talks is key to regime change and denuclearization </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Lankov 09</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (11/16, Associate Professor of History at Kookmin
University, “Beating Kim at His Own,” www.nytimes.com/2009/11/17/opinion/17iht-edlankov.html?_r=1 Game)

If de-nuclearization is impossible, ……, bring about de-nuclearization). </span>

**<span style="color: black;">The nuclearization of the Korean peninsula triggers significant impact – it destroys the ozone layer, global agriculture, the economy, and the global nonproliferation regime </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Hayes and Hamel-Green</span>**<span style="color: black;">, Nautilus Institute, **10** (Peter, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute and Michael, Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, January 5, accessed at<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; url(http: //wiki.debatecoaches.org/i/a.gif); background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span>)

The consequences of failing …. as “the end of American nuclear hegemony.”8 </span></span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]