[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**Greenhill Fall Classic (AC ran in rounds 2,3,6):**


<span class="Underline">V: morality</span>

<span class="Underline">Metaethical basis for treating ppl as ends in themselves.</span>

<span style="line-height: 10.5pt;">//<span style="color: black;"> [[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=philrevi|__The Philosophical Review__]]</span>//</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;"> Vol. 92, No. 2 (Apr., 1983), pp. 169-195 </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">Published by: [[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=duke|__Duke University Press__]] on behalf of [[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=philreview|__Philosophical Review__]] </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2184924]] </span>


<span class="x"><span style="color: #333333;">Two Distinctions in Goodness </span></span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">Christine M. Korsgaard </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;"> Pg. 14-15 </span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">“The argument shows…good our end” </span>


<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">VC: Treating people as ends in themselves </span>

Consequentialism of right violations violates any moral system

<span style="line-height: 150%; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">Kamm, Frances. "In Search of the Deep Structure of Morality. An Interview with Frances Kamm." Interview by Alex Voorhoeve. Vancouver Island University. Vancouver Island University. Web. <[[http://records.viu.ca/www/ipp/pdf/kamm.pdf]]>. </span>
“The key idea…determines their worth” 


[[http://people.rit.edu/jtsgsh/PAPERS/numbers.pdf]]
pg. 8

Moral harms are only significant insofar as they are experienced.

JT Sanders: Why the Numbers 
Should Sometimes Count

Please note that Sanders is quoting Taurek.

“But when I…spared his loss”

Ability to use force is perceived as intent.

Pilisuk, Marc and Rowen, Jamie. “**Using Psychology to Help Abolish Nuclear Weapons:**
**A Handbook”**[[http://www.psysr.org/about/pubs_resources/Using%20Psychology%20to%20Help%20Abolish%20Nuclear%20Weapons.pdf]]

“NPT already appears… a shared value.” 

Deterrence violates peoples' status as ends in themselves as they are arbitrarily punished and held as hostages.

Lee, Stephen “The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences”. Ethics, Vol. 95 No. 3. April 1985. <span style="color: #265985;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=ethics|Ethics]]</span>
<span style="color: black;"> Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 549-566 </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">Published by: <span style="color: #265985;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=ucpress|The University of Chicago Press]]</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381037]] </span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">“First, the vast… is no consent” </span>


<span style="font-size: 17px; line-height: 25px;">**Negative**</span>

<span class="Underline">NC cites round 1,4,5</span>

<span class="Underline">V: M </span>
<span class="Underline">VC: maintaining realist nature </span>

<span style="color: #265985; line-height: 10.5pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublication?journalCode=intesecu|nternational Security]]</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;"> Vol. 25, No. 2 (Autumn, 2000), pp. 124-151 </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">Published by: <span style="color: #265985;">[[http://www.jstor.org/action/showPublisher?publisherCode=mitpress|The MIT Press]]</span> </span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/2626755</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 10.5pt;">Realism is inherent to human nature.</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Thayer, Bradley 4__</span>**, Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict pg.s 1-29 
“Evolutionary theory offers… 

Realism is inevitable in a self-help world

Mearsheimer, John ‘01 
//<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">The Tragedy of Great Power Politics</span>//, pg. 361] **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Google books.. </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">“The optimists’ claim…region at peace” </span>**

Stats. prove that prolif. promotes stability.

<span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 13.0pt; mso-bidi-font-weight: bold;">Asal and Beardsley </span>
“Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior”, 44:2, Sage)
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">“</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; mso-bidi-font-size: 11.0pt;">As Model 1…</span> <span class="Underline">in this study</span>” 

Benefits of prolif. o.w. harms

Preston 
“From Lambs to Lions: Future Security relationships in a World of Biological and Nuclear Weapons”, p. 31-32) 
“The Cost of… resulted in war” 

Off case ran in round 3



=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]