[[toc]]
For aff questions, email [[mailto:jackerpenbach@gmail.com|jackerpenbach@gmail.com]]
For neg questions, email [[mailto:ana.j.ohara@gmail.com|ana.j.ohara@gmail.com]]

=﻿Affirmative= 

==__**Afghanistan 1AC - Valley**__== 

<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">__**Contention One is The Status Quo**__</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**1. The Afghan troop withdrawal won’t happen – Petraeus statements**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Katie Couric, CBS News, August 20, 2010, “Petraeus: More Work Needed on Afghan Timeline”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/08/20/eveningnews/main6791481.shtml</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">"Is this July 2011 […] are those?" Couric asked.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**2. However, Obama’s deadline created mass confusion – means your disads are non-unique**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Michael O’Hanlon (Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution and a co-author of Brookings' Afghanistan Index), Foreign Affairs, Sept/October 2010, “Staying Power”, volume 89, number 5</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Most important, in announcing […] them any less important.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**3. Despite massive US involvement – Afghanistan’s security is spiraling out of control**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Giles Dorronsoro, New York Times, September 15, 2010, [[http://www.nytimes.om/2010/09/15/opinion/15iht-eddorronsoro.html|www.nytimes.om/2010/09/15/opinion/15iht-eddorronsoro.html]]</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">The final brigades of […] be willing to talk</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**4. This is because the US strategy in Afghanistan is fundamentally flawed for 9 reasons**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Harlan Ullman (A Senior Advisor at the Atlantic Council and a member of its Strategic Advisors Group, he is also a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the National Defense University), Atlantic Council, June 30, 2010, “9 Reasons U.S. is Losing in Afghanistan”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/9-reasons-us-losing-afghanistan</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">If that report were […] produce a lasting effect.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">__**Thus, plan:**__</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**The United States federal government should substantially reduce, through phased-withdrawal, its military presence from Afghanistan.**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**We reserve the right to clarify**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">__**Contention Two is Collateral Damage**__</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**1. US occupation has made civilian casualties skyrocket**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Mike Ludwig, Truthout (a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing independent news and commentary on a daily basis), August 11, 2010, “Civilian Casualties in Afghanistan: Beyond the Body Count”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.truth-out.org/civilian-casualties-afghanistan-reach-all-time-high62222</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">The United Nations announced […]rocket on July 23.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**2. US occupation destabilizes Pakistan – it’s on the brink now**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Kanti Bajpai, Times of India, September 13, 2010, [[http://www.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms|www.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms]]</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Ten years on, the US […] still have a chance.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**3. Pakistani collapse sparks regional destabilization and nuclear war**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Thomas Ricks (staff writer), Washington Post, October 21, 2001, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">The prospect of Pakistan […] Strategic and International Studies.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">__**Contention Three is the Graveyard of Empires**__</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**1. While the US possesses strong foundational advantages - US power abroad is not guaranteed**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Robert J. Lieber (Professor of Government at Georgetown University), International Politics, March 2009, “Persistent primacy and the future of the American era”, 119-139</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">In general, effective alternatives […] order – depend on it.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**2. However, large expenses and protracted mission failure in the Afghan war guarantees US hegemonic collapse**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Malou Innocent (foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan), and Ted Galen Carpenter (vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute), Cato Institute, September 11, 2009, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.scribd.com/doc/19645403/Escaping-the-quotGraveyard-of-Empiresquot-A-Strategy-to-Exit-Afghanistan-Cato-White-Paper</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Myth #3: Withdrawal Would […] security than would withdrawal.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**3. Afghanistan depletes US strategic reserves – this will get exploited by adversaries**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">George Friedman (American political scientist, chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College), Stratfor, June 29, 2010, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">From the grand strategic […] re-establish its ground reserves.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**4. Afghanistan occupation drains economic, military, and political resources essential to maintain US foundations of power**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Stephen M. Walt (Dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government), Foreign Policy, August 9, 2010, "A realistic approach to China," accessed August 19, 2010, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/08/09/a_realistic_approach_to_china</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Thomas Wright has an […] life here at home.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**5. Withdrawal from Afghanistan is key to revitalizing US soft power**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">G. Pascal Zachary (a member of the In These Times Board of Editors, is the author of the memoir Married to Africa and The Diversity Advantage: Multicultural Identity in the New World Economy. Professor of journalism at Stanford University and fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Toward Freedom, October 12, 2009, “The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan”, accessed August 12, 2010, http://www.towardfreedom.com/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Morality must return to […] problems in distant lands.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">__**We’ll isolate three scenarios to US Hegemony**__</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">__**Scenario One is Space Exploration**__</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**1. US hegemony key to space exploration**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">William K. Bosch (Major, United States Air Force), Air Command and Staff College, April 2006, “THE FUTURE OF SPACE EXPLORATION & SECURITY CAPABILITIES”</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">The US is the […] deterring other potential entrants.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**2. We are at a critical stage in humyn development for space exploration to prevent extinction**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Sylvia Engdahl (award-winning science fiction writer), 1994, “Space and Human Survival, Part I”, accessed June 14, 2010, http://www.sylviaengdahl.com/space/survival.htm</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">I have called this […] that are virtually unlimited.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">__**Scenario Two is Free Trade**__</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**1. Hegemony key to global free trade**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Bradley A. Thayer (Ph.D., Professor of National Security Studies), American Empire: A Debate, 2007, pg. 42-</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Economic prosperity is also […] may enjoy economic prosperity</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**2. Free trade solves poverty – massive empirical studies prove**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Mike Moore (Reuters/Carnegie Public Policy Series - London School of Economics), WTO, June 16, 2000, “Trade, Poverty and The Human Face of Globalization”, accessed May 27, 2010, http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spmm_e/spmm32_e.htm</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Even so, critics of […] one-for-one with overall growth.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**3. The ongoing global war against those in poverty is equivalent to a nuclear war**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">James Gilligan (Department of Psychiatry Harvard Medical School), Violence: Reflections On Our Deadliest Epidemic, 2000, p 195-196</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">The 14 to 18 million […] decade, throughout the world.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">__**Scenario Three is Every Other Impact Known to Debate**__</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**1. Primacy prevents every scenario for nuclear conflict – there is no alternative**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Robert Kagan (Professor of American History, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Hoover Institute, September 7, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">The jostling for status […] in under unfavorable circumstances.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**2. US hegemony makes the world go ‘round and is the only viable bulwark against great power war, terrorism, rogue states, and proliferation**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University), The National Interest, November 10, 2006, “In Defense of Primacy”, accessed August 12, 2010, http://nationalinterest.org/article/in-defense-of-primacy-1300</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Thus, it is no […] matters great and trivial.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**3. Hegemony must be maintained – the alternative to US power is apolarity**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Niall Ferguson (Laurence A. Tisch professor of history at Harvard University, the William Ziegler professor of business administration at Harvard Business School, and a senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution), Hoover Institution, 2004, “A World Without Power”, accessed August 10, 2010, http://www.hoover.org/publications/hoover-digest/article/7685</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Critics of U.S. global […] a few fortified enclaves.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**4. Because the logic of hegemony is inevitable, we must maintain primacy through all necessary means**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Jisi Wang (Director of the Institute of American Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences), US-China Economic and Security Review Commission, December 10, 2003, “The Logic of the American Hegemony”, accessed August 10, 2010, http://www.uscc.gov/researchpapers/translated_articles/2005/05_03_23_logic_of_the_american_hegemony.htm</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">It is unrealistic […] age of multipolarity arrive.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">__**Contention Four is Solvency**__</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**1. US withdrawal would increase stability**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Leon Hadar (research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia), Cato Institute, July 28, 2010, “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It”, accessed August 20, 2010, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">My guess is that […] a regional military conflagration.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">**2. Critics assume immediate withdrawal, not the phased withdrawal of plan**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">Dr. Bernard I. Finel (Atlantic Council contributing editor, senior fellow at the American Security Project), Atlantic Council, August 20, 2009, “An Alternative Strategy for Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/alternative-strategy-afghanistan</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt;">One of my great frustrations […] or a legitimate successor.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal;">**3. Unilateral withdrawal is best – conditions on policies kill leadership**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal;">Jamie Carroll, Emory International Law Review, 2009, Lexis</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal;">n221. See Thomas Friedman, […] Khalilzad, supra note 177.</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: normal;">Iraq 1AC - Valley</span>
__**Contention I: Inherency**__

**Thousands of troops and 58 permanent bases will remain in Iraq long after withdrawal – the US is using the same model used by the British Empire to colonize Iraq**

Eric Margolis (staff writer), “US influence in Iraq far from over,” Toronto Sun. March 3, 2009. Accessed 9/1/10. http://www.torontosun.com/comment/columnists/eric_margolis/2009/03/01/8576276-sun.html

Barack Obama won the votes … Iraq is being hushed up.

**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should withdraw the United States federal government’s military and police presence from Iraq.**

__**Contention II: Colonialism**__

**1. Forces supposedly sent to liberate a nation have turned to unwarranted killing of its civilians – our overall strategy ensures that atrocities are everyday events**

Dahr Jamail (staff writer for the Inter Press Service, recipient of the 2008 Martha Gellhorn Prize for Journalism), “Iraq War Vet: "We Were Told to Just Shoot People, and the Officers Would Take Care of Us",” Truth Out. April 7, 2010. Accessed 9/1/10.
<span style="color: windowtext; display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.truth-out.org/iraq-war-vet-we-were-told-just-shoot-people-and-officers-would-take-care-us58378%20%0D|http://www.truth-out.org/iraq-war-vet-we-were-told-just-shoot-people-and-officers-would-take-care-us58378 ]]</span>
On Monday, April 5, Wikileaks.org posted … when it becomes an occupation."

**2. Deaths go beyond the statistics – hundreds of thousands of Iraqis, many of them children, are dying as a direct result of US forces’ role in cutting off resources**

Bill Van Auken (staff writer), “The US war and occupation of Iraq – the murder of a society,” International Committee of the Fourth International. May 19, 2007. Accessed 9/1/10. http://www.wsws.org/articles/2007/may2007/iraq-m19.shtml

Although no definitive figures can … elsewhere, has proven catastrophically inadequate.

**3. Despite media claims, over 300 Iraqi civilians die every day as a direct result of US presence – during this 1AC, 2 Iraqis will die**

Michael Schwartz (Professor of sociology at Stony Brook University), “Is the United States Killing 10,000 Iraqis Every Month? Or Is It More?” Global Research. August 13, 2007. Accessed 9/1/10. http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=6538

While the atlantist media is … participating in the American surge.)

**4. All partial withdrawal did was obscure the problem – training troops left behind are the chief cause of violence and sectarian conflict**

Jeremy Kuzmarov (assistant professor of history at the University of Tulsa), “American Police Training and Political Violence: From the Philippines Conquest to the Killing Fields of Afghanistan and Iraq,” The Asia-Pacific Journal. March 15, 2010. Accessed 8/16/10.
<span style="color: windowtext; display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.japanfocus.org/-Jeremy-Kuzmarov/3319]]</span>
In Iraq, much as in Vietnam … consequences of U.S. covert manipulation.

**5. The US drive to “liberate Iraq” is a cover for colonialist expansion – implicit ideological reinforcement facilitates future interventions**

Kevin Parsneau, Arjun Chowdhury and Mark Hoffman (Doctoral candidates in the Department of Political Science at the University of Minnesota), “An Urgent Warning to Critics of the Iraq Wars Becoming Imperialist,” University of Minnesota. May 24, 2007. Accessed 9/1/10.
<span style="color: windowtext; display: block; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.counterpunch.org/parsneau05242007.html]]</span>
By ignoring the political motivations … in the years to come.

**6. The occupation requires American values at gunpoint – the dream of democracy ensures a reality of totalitarianism, genocide, and global warfare**

Anthony Burke (professor of Politics & IR at University of New South Wales), “Freedom’s Freedom: American Enlightenment and Permanent War,” Social Identities, pp. 322-3. 2005.

Hannah Arendt recognized this instrumental… reappear, in their full diversity’ (Arendt, 2002, pp. 19_/34).

**7. Colonialist practices in Iraq create a binary paradigm resulting in dehumanization, war, and genocide – only when we see people as uncivilized can we justify murder in the name of democracy**

Pinar Batur (PhD at UT – Austin, professor of sociology at Vassar), “The Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide,” Handbook of the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, eds. Vera and Feagin, pp. 446-7. 2007.

Yet, global racism is not only … exploitation” are Iraq and New Orleans.

**8. Democracy promotion in Iraq is the linchpin of regional and global interventionism**

William Robinson (professor of UC Santa Barbara), “What to Expect from US “Democracy Promotion” in Iraq,” Commentary. 2004.

The US plan for “promoting democracy” … in tightly controlled electoral processes.5

**9. Colonialism should be rejected whenever possible – even when it can be politically justified, it results in mass death and genocide**

Neeman Shaikh, “Interrogating Charity and the Benevolence of Empire,” Asia Source. 2007.

It would probably be incorrect … and the Mediterranean generally (Anidjar, 2003, 2007).

**10. Do not sacrifice the lives and dignity of Iraqis for high magnitude impact claims – every moral and political evil has been committed in the name of survival**

Daniel Callahan, “The Tyranny of Survival,” Institute of Society and Ethics, pp. 91-3. 1973.

The value of survival could not … to end all Pyrrhic victories.

**11. Utility is always in the name of a particular ideology and serves to perpetuate the status quo**

Michael Williams (Professor of International Politics at Aberystwyth), “The Realist Tradition and the Limits of International Relations,” pp. 172-3. 2005.

If viewed simply as the consideration … little resonance in the Realist tradition.

__**Contention III: Solvency**__

**1. We are at the precipice of a change in American grand strategy – Iraq withdrawal sets the stage for debate about other interventions – it’s the linchpin of a paradigm shift in the US colonial mindset**

Michael Lind (Policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program, co-founder of the New America Foundation, first New America fellow, has taught at Harvard University and Johns Hopkins and writes frequently for the Financial Times, the New York Times, Democracy Journal, and other publications), “Beyond American Hegemony,” The National Interest. May/June 2007. Accessed 9/2/10. http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2007/beyond_american_hegemony_5381

The potential for high costs … American grand strategy as a whole.

**2. Iraq is the intersection point of imperial ambitions – without it, colonial game-plans will collapse**

Larry Everest (covered the Middle East and Central Asia for over 20 years for the Revolutionary Worker newspaper and other publications, his articles have appeared in the Boston Globe, the LA Times, the San Francisco Chronicle, and other publications, has also done radio analysis in Berkeley), “Oil, Power, and Empire: Iraq and the U.S. Global Agenda,” Common Courage Press. 2004. Accessed 8/17/10. http://www.worldcantwait.net/materials/OPE-CHAPTER%20ONE.pdf

It is for all these intersecting … all roads led through Baghdad.

**3. Popular support for imperialism is superficial – revealing the foundations of America’s empire will crush public willingness to maintain global leadership**

Michael Lind (Policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program, co-founder of the New America Foundation, first New America fellow, has taught at Harvard University and Johns Hopkins and writes frequently for the Financial Times, the New York Times, Democracy Journal, and other publications), “Beyond American Hegemony,” The National Interest. May/June 2007. Accessed 9/2/10. http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2007/beyond_american_hegemony_5381

To be sure, Americans are comfortable … not scrutinizing it too closely."

**4. Only complete and unconditional withdrawal will be able to create stability**

Raed Jarrar (political consultant for the American Friends Service Committee and a senior fellow at Peace Action), “Don't reward violence in Iraq by extending U.S. troop withdrawal deadline,” McClatchy News. May 26, 2010. Accessed 8/29/10. http://dailyme.com/story/2010052600000121/reward-violence-iraq-extending-us-troop.html

President Obama should not bow … Iraq will be sent back to square one.

**5. Withdrawal increases regional cooperation and stability – no other countries will want to invade Iraq**

Christopher Fettweis (Ph.D., assistant professor of national security affairs at the U.S. Naval War College), “On the Consequences of Failure in Iraq,” Survival, pp. 83-98. December 2007.

The biggest risk of an … far more likely than outright warfare.

**6. There is no risk of Iraqi troops being deployed elsewhere**

James Dobins (director of RAND Corporation), Middle East Policy Council. June 16, 2009. Accessed 8/29/10. http://www.mepc.org/forums_chcs/57.asp

Now, there is some thought … doesn't require a significant presence.

==**__Afghanistan 1AC - New Trier__**== 

__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Contention One is The Status Quo**</span>__

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**1. The Afghan troop withdrawal won’t happen – Petraeus statements**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Katie Couric, CBS News, August 20, 2010, “Petraeus: More Work Needed on Afghan Timeline”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/08/20/eveningnews/main6791481.shtml</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"Is this July 2011 [….] are those?" Couric asked.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**2. However, Obama’s deadline created mass confusion – means your disads are non-unique**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Michael O’Hanlon (Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution and a co-author of Brookings' Afghanistan Index), Foreign Affairs, Sept/October 2010, “Staying Power”, volume 89, number 5</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Most important, in announcing […] them any less important.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**3. Despite massive US involvement – Afghanistan’s security is spiraling out of control**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Gilles Dorronsoro (visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace), New York Times, September 15, 2010, “Afghanistan Will Only Get Worse”, accessed September 16, 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/15/opinion/15iht-eddorronsoro.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The final brigades of […] be willing to talk. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**4. This is because the US strategy in Afghanistan is fundamentally flawed for 9 reasons**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Harlan Ullman (A Senior Advisor at the Atlantic Council and a member of its Strategic Advisors Group, he is also a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the National Defense University), Atlantic Council, June 30, 2010, “9 Reasons U.S. is Losing in Afghanistan”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/9-reasons-us-losing-afghanistan</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">If that report were […] produce a lasting effect. </span>

__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Thus, plan:**</span>__

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The United States federal government should substantially reduce, through phased-withdrawal, its military and police presence from Afghanistan.**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**We reserve the right to clarify**</span>

__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Contention Two is Collateral Damage**</span>__

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**1. US occupation has made civilian casualties skyrocket** </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Mike Ludwig, Truthout (a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing independent news and commentary on a daily basis), August 11, 2010, “Civilian Casualties in Afghanistan: Beyond the Body Count”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.truth-out.org/civilian-casualties-afghanistan-reach-all-time-high62222</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The United Nations announced […] killed or injured so far. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**2. Occupation radicalizes Pakistani Taliban – threatening governmental collapse**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Shameem Akhtar (senior ME analyst at Islam Online), Islam Online, January 26, 2010, “Pakistan's Instability: The US War Factor”, accessed September 13, 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs%2FMAELayout]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> As one can see, […] is a laudable initiative.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**3. The brink is now – only a chance we save moderate groups** </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Kanti Bajpai (Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at Oxford), Times of India, September 13, 2010, “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy”, accessed September 16, 2010, http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Ten years on, the […] still have a chance.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**4. Pakistani collapse sparks Indo-Pak war and regional destabilization**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Thomas Ricks (staff writer), Washington Post, October 21, 2001, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The prospect of Pakistan being […] Strategic and International Studies. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**5. This is the most probable scenario – even a conventional attack quickly escalates to the nuclear level**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Dr. Alan Robock (professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction), and Owen Brian Toon (professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of), Scientific American Magazine, January 2010, “South Asian Threat? Local Nuclear War = Global Suffering), accessed September 13, 2010, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">India and Pakistan, which together have […] bases with traditional forces.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**6. Withdrawal solves stability**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Leon Hadar (research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia), Cato Institute, July 28, 2010, “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It”, accessed August 20, 2010, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">My guess is that a U.S. military […] avoid a regional military conflagration. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**7. There’s no risk to withdrawal – terrorism is no longer a possibility in Afghanistan**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Doug Bandow (Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. He also is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and the Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy. He served as a Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan), Cato Institute, July 20, 2010, “Why Are We in Afghanistan?”, accessed August 20, 2010, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11995</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The original justification for war long ago […] states could similarly host terrorists. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**8. Anything less than full withdrawal fails and only further destabilizes the country**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Thomas Hegghammer (senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs), Foreign Policy, November 11, 2009, “The big impact of small footprints”, accessed September 3, 2010, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/11/the_big_impact_of_small_footprints</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Why, then, would a small footprint […] photographers away from the aftermath. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**9. Critics assume immediate withdrawal, not the phased withdrawal of plan**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Dr. Bernard I. Finel (Atlantic Council contributing editor, senior fellow at the American Security Project), Atlantic Council, August 20, 2009, “An Alternative Strategy for Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/alternative-strategy-afghanistan</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">One of my great frustrations in […] regime or a legitimate successor. </span>

__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Contention Three is the Graveyard of Empires**</span>__

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**1. While the US possesses strong foundational advantages - US power abroad is not guaranteed**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Robert J. Lieber (Professor of Government at Georgetown University), International Politics, March 2009, “Persistent primacy and the future of the American era”, 119-139</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In general, effective alternatives to […] democratic order – depend on it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**2. However, large expenses and protracted mission failure in the Afghan war guarantee US hegemonic collapse**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Malou Innocent (foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan), and Ted Galen Carpenter (vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute), Cato Institute, September 11, 2009, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.scribd.com/doc/19645403/Escaping-the-quotGraveyard-of-Empiresquot-A-Strategy-to-Exit-Afghanistan-Cato-White-Paper</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode […] U.S. security than would withdrawal. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**3. Afghanistan depletes US strategic reserves – this will get exploited by adversaries**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> George Friedman (American political scientist, chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College), Stratfor, June 29, 2010, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">From the grand strategic point of […] forces and re-establish its ground reserves. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**4. Afghanistan occupation drains economic, military, and political resources essential to maintain US foundations of power**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Stephen M. Walt (Dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government), Foreign Policy, August 9, 2010, "A realistic approach to China," accessed August 19, 2010, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/08/09/a_realistic_approach_to_china</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Thomas Wright has an interesting […] overall quality of life here at home. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**5. Withdrawal from Afghanistan is key to revitalizing US soft power**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> G. Pascal Zachary (a member of the In These Times Board of Editors, is the author of the memoir Married to Africa and The Diversity Advantage: Multicultural Identity in the New World Economy. Professor of journalism at Stanford University and fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Toward Freedom, October 12, 2009, “The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan”, accessed August 12, 2010, http://www.towardfreedom.com/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Morality must return to the […] solutions to problems in distant lands.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**6. Primacy prevents every scenario for nuclear conflict – there is no alternative**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Robert Kagan (Professor of American History, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Hoover Institute, September 7, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The jostling for status and […] back in under unfavorable circumstances.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**7. US hegemony makes the world go ‘round and is the only viable bulwark against great power war, terrorism, rogue states, and proliferation**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University), The National Interest, November 10, 2006, “In Defense of Primacy”, accessed August 12, 2010, </span><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/in-defense-of-primacy-1300]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Thus, it is no surprise to see […] again on matters great and trivial. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**8. Hegemony must be maintained – the alternative to US power is apolarity**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Niall Ferguson (Laurence A. Tisch professor of history at Harvard University, the William Ziegler professor of business administration at Harvard Business School, and a senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution), Hoover Institution, 2004, “A World Without Power”, accessed August 10, 2010, http://www.hoover.org/publications/hoover-digest/article/7685</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Critics of U.S. global dominance […] into a few fortified enclaves. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**9. Because the logic of hegemony is inevitable, we must maintain primacy through all necessary means**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> Jisi Wang (Director of the Institute of American Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences), US-China Economic and Security Review Commission, December 10, 2003, “The Logic of the American Hegemony”, accessed August 10, 2010, http://www.uscc.gov/researchpapers/translated_articles/2005/05_03_23_logic_of_the_american_hegemony.htm</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">It is unrealistic for now to drag […] will the age of multipolarity arrive. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**10. Unipolarity is empirically and comparatively most peaceful**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> WilliamWohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College), World Politics, January 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War”, accessed August 22, 2010, Muse</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Does unipolarity promote peace […] status tend to be zero sum.9 </span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**11. Even if they win multipolarity is possible and preferable it doesn’t matter – transition means extinction**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Zbigniew Brzezinski (National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University), The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership, 2004, pg. 2-4</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">History is a record of change, […] of weapons of mass destruction.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**12. Unilateral withdrawal is best – conditions on policies kill leadership**</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Jamie Carroll, ed. Emory Int’l L.R., JD Emory, “Back to the Future,” 23 Emory International Law Review, 2009 167, Lexis, Accessed August 31, 2010</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">n221. See Thomas Friedman, Op-Ed., 9/11 is Over, N.Y. Times, Sept. 30, 2007, § 4, at 12. This does not mean, however, that foreign countries should hold a veto over U.S. foreign or domestic policies, particularly policies that are not directly related to their national survival. Allowing foreign countries or international institutions to veto or modify unrelated U.S. policies would make a mockery of our foreign policy and destroy the credibility of American leadership. International cooperation does not require making our policy subservient to the whims of other nations. See generally The Allies and Arms Control (F.O. Hampson et al. eds., 1992). See also Khalilzad, supra note 177.</span>

==Afghanistan 1AC – Iowa Caucus== 

**Contention One is The Status Quo**

**1. The Afghan troop withdrawal won’t happen – Petraeus statements**

Katie Couric, CBS News, August 20, 2010, “Petraeus: More Work Needed on Afghan Timeline”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/08/20/eveningnews/main6791481.shtml

"Is this July 2011 [….] are those?" Couric asked.

**2. However, Obama’s deadline created mass confusion – means your disads are non-unique**

Michael O’Hanlon (Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution and a co-author of Brookings' Afghanistan Index), Foreign Affairs, Sept/October 2010, “Staying Power”, volume 89, number 5

Most important, in announcing […] them any less important.

**3. Despite massive US involvement – Afghanistan’s security is spiraling out of control**

Gilles Dorronsoro (visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace), Foreign Policy, October 7, 2010, “Think Again: The Afghan Surge”, accessed October 18, 2010, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/07/think_again_the_afghan_surge

"All We Need Is Time." Wrong. This […]United States and the Pakistani military.

**4. This is because the US strategy in Afghanistan is fundamentally flawed for 9 reasons**

Harlan Ullman (A Senior Advisor at the Atlantic Council and a member of its Strategic Advisors Group, he is also a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the National Defense University), Atlantic Council, June 30, 2010, “9 Reasons U.S. is Losing in Afghanistan”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/9-reasons-us-losing-afghanistan

If that report were […] produce a lasting effect.

__**Thus, plan:**__

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce, through phased-withdrawal, its military and police presence from Afghanistan.**

**We reserve the right to clarify**

__**Contention Two is Collateral Damage**__

**1. US occupation has made civilian casualties skyrocket**

Mike Ludwig, Truthout (a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing independent news and commentary on a daily basis), August 11, 2010, “Civilian Casualties in Afghanistan: Beyond the Body Count”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.truth-out.org/civilian-casualties-afghanistan-reach-all-time-high62222

The United Nations announced […] killed or injured so far.

**2. Occupation radicalizes Pakistani Taliban – threatening governmental collapse**

Shameem Akhtar (senior ME analyst at Islam Online), Islam Online, January 26, 2010, “Pakistan's Instability: The US War Factor”, accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs%2FMAELayout]]</span>

As one can see, […] is a laudable initiative.

**3. The brink is now – only a chance we save moderate groups**

Kanti Bajpai (Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at Oxford), Times of India, September 13, 2010, “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy”, accessed September 16, 2010, http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms

Ten years on, the […] still have a chance.

**4. Pakistani collapse sparks Indo-Pak war and regional destabilization**

Thomas Ricks (staff writer), Washington Post, October 21, 2001, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences”, accessed August 21, 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer

The prospect of Pakistan being […] Strategic and International Studies.

**5. This is the most probable scenario – even a conventional attack quickly escalates to the nuclear level**

Dr. Alan Robock (professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction), and Owen Brian Toon (professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of), Scientific American Magazine, January 2010, “South Asian Threat? Local Nuclear War = Global Suffering), accessed September 13, 2010, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war

India and Pakistan, which together have […] bases with traditional forces.

**6. Withdrawal solves stability**

Leon Hadar (research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia), Cato Institute, July 28, 2010, “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It”, accessed August 20, 2010, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011

My guess is that a U.S. military […] avoid a regional military conflagration.

**7. There’s no risk to withdrawal – terrorism is no longer a possibility in Afghanistan**

Doug Bandow (Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. He also is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and the Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy. He served as a Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan), Cato Institute, July 20, 2010, “Why Are We in Afghanistan?”, accessed August 20, 2010, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11995

The original justification for war long ago […] states could similarly host terrorists.

**8. Anything less than full withdrawal fails and only further destabilizes the country**

Thomas Hegghammer (senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs), Foreign Policy, November 11, 2009, “The big impact of small footprints”, accessed September 3, 2010, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/11/the_big_impact_of_small_footprints

Why, then, would a small footprint […] photographers away from the aftermath.

**9. Critics assume immediate withdrawal, not the phased withdrawal of plan**

Dr. Bernard I. Finel (Atlantic Council contributing editor, senior fellow at the American Security Project), Atlantic Council, August 20, 2009, “An Alternative Strategy for Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/alternative-strategy-afghanistan

One of my great frustrations in […] regime or a legitimate successor.

__**Contention Three is the Graveyard of Empires**__

**1. While the US possesses strong foundational advantages - US power abroad is not guaranteed**

Robert J. Lieber (Professor of Government at Georgetown University), International Politics, March 2009, “Persistent primacy and the future of the American era”, 119-139

In general, effective alternatives to […] democratic order – depend on it.

**2. However, large expenses and protracted mission failure in the Afghan war guarantee US hegemonic collapse**

Malou Innocent (foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan), and Ted Galen Carpenter (vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute), Cato Institute, September 11, 2009, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.scribd.com/doc/19645403/Escaping-the-quotGraveyard-of-Empiresquot-A-Strategy-to-Exit-Afghanistan-Cato-White-Paper

Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode […] U.S. security than would withdrawal.

**3. Afghanistan depletes US strategic reserves – this will get exploited by adversaries**

George Friedman (American political scientist, chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College), Stratfor, June 29, 2010, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan

From the grand strategic point of […] forces and re-establish its ground reserves.

**4. Afghanistan occupation drains economic, military, and political resources essential to maintain US foundations of power**

Stephen M. Walt (Dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government), Foreign Policy, August 9, 2010, "A realistic approach to China," accessed August 19, 2010, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/08/09/a_realistic_approach_to_china

Thomas Wright has an interesting […] overall quality of life here at home.

**5. Withdrawal from Afghanistan is key to revitalizing US soft power**

G. Pascal Zachary (a member of the In These Times Board of Editors, is the author of the memoir Married to Africa and The Diversity Advantage: Multicultural Identity in the New World Economy. Professor of journalism at Stanford University and fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Toward Freedom, October 12, 2009, “The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan”, accessed August 12, 2010, http://www.towardfreedom.com/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan

Morality must return to the […] solutions to problems in distant lands.

**6. Primacy prevents every scenario for nuclear conflict – there is no alternative**

Robert Kagan (Professor of American History, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Hoover Institute, September 7, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, accessed August 11, 2010, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136

The jostling for status and […] back in under unfavorable circumstances.

**7. US hegemony makes the world go ‘round and is the only viable bulwark against great power war, terrorism, rogue states, and proliferation**

Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University), The National Interest, November 10, 2006, “In Defense of Primacy”, accessed August 12, 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/in-defense-of-primacy-1300]]</span>

Thus, it is no surprise to see […] again on matters great and trivial.

**8. Hegemony must be maintained – the alternative to US power is apolarity**

Niall Ferguson (Laurence A. Tisch professor of history at Harvard University, the William Ziegler professor of business administration at Harvard Business School, and a senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution), Hoover Institution, 2004, “A World Without Power”, accessed August 10, 2010, http://www.hoover.org/publications/hoover-digest/article/7685

Critics of U.S. global dominance […] into a few fortified enclaves.

**9. Because the logic of hegemony is inevitable, we must maintain primacy through all necessary means**

Jisi Wang (Director of the Institute of American Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences), US-China Economic and Security Review Commission, December 10, 2003, “The Logic of the American Hegemony”, accessed August 10, 2010, http://www.uscc.gov/researchpapers/translated_articles/2005/05_03_23_logic_of_the_american_hegemony.htm

It is unrealistic for now to drag […] will the age of multipolarity arrive.

**10. Unipolarity is empirically and comparatively most peaceful**

WilliamWohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College), World Politics, January 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War”, accessed August 22, 2010, Muse

Does unipolarity promote peace […] status tend to be zero sum.9

**11. Even if they win multipolarity is possible and preferable it doesn’t matter – transition means extinction**

Zbigniew Brzezinski (National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University), The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership, 2004, pg. 2-4

History is a record of change, […] of weapons of mass destruction.
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Afghanistan 1AC - Aberdeen Golden Eagle Cup**</span>== 

**__Contention One is Inherency__**

**1. The military will prevent any Afghan withdrawal**

<span class="NormalF6Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Eric Schmitt, Helene Cooper, David E. Sanger, New York Times, August 11, 2010, “U.S. Military to Press for Slower Afghan Drawdown”, accessed August 11, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/08/12/world/asia/12policy.html?pagewanted=1&partner=rss&emc=rss&src=ig]]</span> </span></span>

WASHINGTON — American military officials […] to get their work done.

2**. There’s no way we’re withdrawing in 2011 – base expansions prove**

Jason Linkins (political reporter for the Huffington Post), Huffington Post, August 9, 2010, “U.S. Expands Its Footprint At Bagram Air Force Base”, accessed September 14, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/08/09/us-expands-its-footprint_n_675566.html]]</span>

Sometime around the spring of 2011 […] air base an hour away from Kabul."

**__Thus, plan:__**

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and police presence in Afghanistan.**
**We reserve the right to clarify**

**__Contention Two is Advantages, Advantage One is Collateral Damage__**

**1. Despite massive US involvement – Afghanistan’s security is spiraling out of control**

Gilles Dorronsoro (visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace), Foreign Policy, October 7, 2010, “Think Again: The Afghan Surge”, accessed October 18, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/10/07/think_again_the_afghan_surge]]</span>

"All We Need Is Time." […] United States and the Pakistani military.

**2. This is because the US strategy in Afghanistan is fundamentally flawed for 9 reasons**

Harlan Ullman (A Senior Advisor at the Atlantic Council and a member of its Strategic Advisors Group, he is also a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the National Defense University), Atlantic Council, June 30, 2010, “9 Reasons U.S. is Losing in Afghanistan”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/9-reasons-us-losing-afghanistan]]</span>

If that report were released in […] is likely to produce a lasting effect.

**3. US occupation has made civilian casualties skyrocket**

Mike Ludwig, Truthout (a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing independent news and commentary on a daily basis), August 11, 2010, “Civilian Casualties in Afghanistan: Beyond the Body Count”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.truth-out.org/civilian-casualties-afghanistan-reach-all-time-high62222]]</span>

The United Nations announced […] 3,268 killed or injured so far.

**4. Occupation radicalizes Pakistani Taliban – threatening governmental collapse**

Shameem Akhtar (senior ME analyst at Islam Online), Islam Online, January 26, 2010, “Pakistan's Instability: The US War Factor”, accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs%2FMAELayout]]</span>

As one can see, it was America's […] contentious issues is a laudable initiative.

**5. Pakistani collapse sparks Indo-Pak war and regional destabilization**

Thomas Ricks (staff writer), Washington Post, October 21, 2001, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]]</span>

The prospect of Pakistan being […] for Strategic and International Studies.

**6. This is the most probable scenario – even a conventional attack quickly escalates to the nuclear level**

Dr. Alan Robock (professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction), and Owen Brian Toon (professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of), Scientific American Magazine, January 2010, “South Asian Threat? Local Nuclear War = Global Suffering), accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war]]</span>

India and Pakistan, which together […] military bases with traditional forces.


__**Advantage Two is the Graveyard of Empires**__

**1. While the US possesses strong foundational advantages - US power abroad is not guaranteed**

Robert J. Lieber (Professor of Government at Georgetown University), International Politics, March 2009, “Persistent primacy and the future of the American era”, 119-139

In general, effective alternatives to the […] global liberal democratic order – depend on it.

**2. However, protracted mission failure in the Afghan war guarantees US hegemonic collapse**

Malou Innocent (foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan), and Ted Galen Carpenter (vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute), Cato Institute, September 11, 2009, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires”, accessed August 11, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.scribd.com/doc/19645403/Escaping-the-quotGraveyard-of-Empiresquot-A-Strategy-to-Exit-Afghanistan-Cato-White-Paper]]</span>

Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global […] undermine U.S. security than would withdrawal.

**3. Afghanistan depletes US strategic reserves – this will get exploited by adversaries**

George Friedman (American political scientist, chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College), Stratfor, June 29, 2010, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan]]</span>

From the grand strategic point […] up forces and re-establish its ground reserves.

**4. Afghanistan occupation drains economic and military resources and political focus essential to maintain US foundations of power**

Stephen M. Walt (Dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government), Foreign Policy, August 9, 2010, "A realistic approach to China," accessed August 19, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/08/09/a_realistic_approach_to_china]]</span>

Thomas Wright has an interesting op-ed in […] overall quality of life here at home.

**5. Withdrawal from Afghanistan is key to revitalizing US soft power**

G. Pascal Zachary (a member of the In These Times Board of Editors, is the author of the memoir Married to Africa and The Diversity Advantage: Multicultural Identity in the New World Economy. Professor of journalism at Stanford University and fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Toward Freedom, October 12, 2009, “The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan”, accessed August 12, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.towardfreedom.com/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan]]</span>

Morality must return to the center of America's […] regional solutions to problems in distant lands.

**6. US hegemony makes the world go ‘round and is the only viable bulwark against great power war, terrorism, rogue states, and proliferation**

Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University), The National Interest, November 10, 2006, “In Defense of Primacy”, accessed August 12, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/in-defense-of-primacy-1300]]</span>

Thus, it is no surprise to see NATO in […] international body time and again on matters great and trivial.

**7. US unipolarity empirically and comparatively maintains global stability**

WilliamWohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College), World Politics, January 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War”, accessed August 22, 2010, Muse

Does unipolarity promote peace among major powers […] and competitions for status tend to be zero sum.9

**8. Specifically, primacy checks seven scenarios for global war**

Robert Kagan (Professor of American History, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Hoover Institute, September 7, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, accessed August 11, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]</span>

Such order as exists in the world rests not merely […] draw the United States back in under unfavorable circumstances.

**__Contention Three is Solvency__**

**1. Afghan withdrawal allows the US to refocus its power – solving stability, rising powers, and global cooperation without destabilizing the country**

Kanti Bajpai (Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at Oxford), Times of India, September 13, 2010, “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy”, accessed September 16, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms]]</span>

The Indian strategic community thinks […] not lose the woods for the trees.

**2. Withdrawal allows regional fill in that solves stability**

Leon Hadar (research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia), Cato Institute, July 28, 2010, “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It”, accessed August 20, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011]]</span>

My guess is that a U.S. military disengagement would […] order to avoid a regional military conflagration.

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan 1AC - Millard West/South]]Afghanistan 1AC - Millard West/South**</span>== 

__**Contention One is The Status Quo**__

**1. The Afghan troop withdrawal won’t happen – base expansions prove**

Jason Linkins (political reporter for the Huffington Post), Huffington Post, August 9, 2010, “U.S. Expands Its Footprint At Bagram Air Force Base”, accessed September 14, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/08/09/us-expands-its-footprint_n_675566.html]]</span>

Sometime around the spring […] hour away from Kabul."

**2. However, Obama’s deadline created mass confusion – means your disads are non-unique**

Michael O’Hanlon (Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution and a co-author of Brookings' Afghanistan Index), Foreign Affairs, Sept/October 2010, “Staying Power”, volume 89, number 5

Most important, in announcing […] them any less important.

**3. Despite massive US involvement – Afghanistan’s security is spiraling out of control**

Matthew Hoh (served in Iraq as a marine captain, went on to serve in Afghanistan for the State Department. He resigned his position there in 2009 because he disagreed with US operations in Afghanistan), Intelligence Squared, November 10, 2010, “Afghanistan Is A Lost Cause”, accessed November 17, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://intelligencesquaredus.org/wp-content/uploads/Afghanistan-111010.pdf]]</span>

Keep in mind […] to join the insurgency.

**4. This is because the US strategy in Afghanistan is fundamentally flawed for 9 reasons**

Harlan Ullman (A Senior Advisor at the Atlantic Council and a member of its Strategic Advisors Group, he is also a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the National Defense University), Atlantic Council, June 30, 2010, “9 Reasons U.S. is Losing in Afghanistan”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/9-reasons-us-losing-afghanistan]]</span>

If that report were […] produce a lasting effect.

__**Thus, plan:**__

**The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and police presence in Afghanistan.**

**We reserve the right to clarify**

__**Contention Two is Collateral Damage**__

**1. US occupation has made civilian casualties skyrocket**

Mike Ludwig, Truthout (a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing independent news and commentary on a daily basis), August 11, 2010, “Civilian Casualties in Afghanistan: Beyond the Body Count”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.truth-out.org/civilian-casualties-afghanistan-reach-all-time-high62222]]</span>

The United Nations announced […] or injured so far.

**2. Occupation radicalizes Pakistani Taliban – threatening governmental collapse**

Shameem Akhtar (senior ME analyst at Islam Online), Islam Online, January 26, 2010, “Pakistan's Instability: The US War Factor”, accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs%2FMAELayout]]</span>

As one can see, […] is a laudable initiative.
**3. Pakistan’s on the brink – only a chance plan saves moderate groups**

Kanti Bajpai (Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at Oxford), Times of India, September 13, 2010, “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy”, accessed September 16, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms]]</span>

Ten years on, the […] still have a chance.

**4. Pakistani collapse sparks Indo-Pak war and regional destabilization**

Thomas Ricks (staff writer), Washington Post, October 21, 2001, “At Pentagon: Worries Over War's Costs, Consequences”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/ac2/wp-dyn/A27875-2001Oct20?language=printer]]</span>

The prospect of Pakistan […] Strategic and International Studies.

**5. This is the most probable scenario – even a conventional attack quickly escalates to the nuclear level**

Dr. Alan Robock (professor of climatology in the Department of Environmental Sciences at Rutgers University and the associate director of its Center for Environmental Prediction), and Owen Brian Toon (professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences and a fellow at the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of), Scientific American Magazine, January 2010, “South Asian Threat? Local Nuclear War = Global Suffering), accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=local-nuclear-war]]</span>

India and Pakistan, which […] bases with traditional forces.

**6. Independently, US operations prevent development of regional Afghan trade**

Neil Padukone (Neil Padukone is a US-based security and international affairs consultant. He is currently a Visiting Fellow at the Institute of Security Studies, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi), Oil Price, October 6, 2010, “Reconnecting Afghanistan to the Rest of the World - Against US Interests”, accessed December 1, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://oilprice.com/Geo-Politics/Middle-East/Reconnecting-Afghanistan-to-the-Rest-of-the-World-Against-US-Interests.html]]</span>

Afghanistan was not always […] that it would benefit Iran.

**7. That’s key to regional stability and solves multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict**

S. Frederick Starr (Chairman of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at the Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University), The Asia Society, 2003, “Afghanistan: Free Trade and Regional Transformation”, accessed December 1, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cacianalyst.org/Publications/Starr_Asia_Society_Afghanistan.htm]]</span>

However great the economic […] world security is grounded.

**8. Withdrawal solves stability**

Leon Hadar (research fellow in foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy, international trade, the Middle East, and South and East Asia), Cato Institute, July 28, 2010, “What Happens If U.S. Troops Leave Afghanistan? Not the End of the World As We Know It”, accessed August 20, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=12011]]</span>

My guess is that […] a regional military conflagration.

**9. There’s no risk to withdrawal – terrorism is no longer a possibility in Afghanistan**

Doug Bandow (Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. He also is the Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and the Senior Fellow in International Religious Persecution at the Institute on Religion and Public Policy. He served as a Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan), Cato Institute, July 20, 2010, “Why Are We in Afghanistan?”, accessed August 20, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11995]]</span>

The original justification for […] could similarly host terrorists.

**10. Anything less than full withdrawal fails and only further destabilizes the country**

Thomas Hegghammer (senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs), Foreign Policy, November 11, 2009, “The big impact of small footprints”, accessed September 3, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/11/11/the_big_impact_of_small_footprints]]</span>

Why, then, would a […] away from the aftermath.

__**Contention Three is the Graveyard of Empires**__

**1. While the US possesses strong foundational advantages - US power abroad is not guaranteed**

Robert J. Lieber (Professor of Government at Georgetown University), International Politics, March 2009, “Persistent primacy and the future of the American era”, 119-139

In general, effective alternatives […] democratic order – depend on it.

**2. However, Afghanistan depletes US strategic reserves – this will get exploited by adversaries**

George Friedman (American political scientist, chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College), Stratfor, June 29, 2010, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan”, accessed August 11, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan]]</span>

From the grand strategic […] re-establish its ground reserves.

**3. Afghan occupation drains economic and military resources and political focus essential to maintain US foundations of power**

Stephen M. Walt (Dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government), Foreign Policy, August 9, 2010, "A realistic approach to China," accessed August 19, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/08/09/a_realistic_approach_to_china]]</span>

Thomas Wright has an […] quality of life here at home.

**4. Afghan withdrawal is key to avoid economic implosion and restore soft power**

William Polk (member of the U.S. Policy Planning Council responsible for the Middle East from 1961 to 1965. Subsequently, he was professor of history and director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at the University of Chicago and later president of the Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Affairs. Author of many books on international affairs, world and Middle Eastern history), History News Network, November 23, 2009, “How to Get Out of Afghanistan”, accessed September 13, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://hnn.us/articles/120371.html]]</span>

We are indeed at […] “a city on the hill.”

**5. Primacy prevents every scenario for nuclear conflict – there is no alternative**

Robert Kagan (Professor of American History, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Hoover Institute, September 7, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, accessed August 11, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]</span>

The jostling for status […] in under unfavorable circumstances.
**6. US hegemony makes the world go ‘round and is the only viable bulwark against great power war, terrorism, rogue states, and proliferation**

Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University), The National Interest, November 10, 2006, “In Defense of Primacy”, accessed August 12, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/in-defense-of-primacy-1300]]</span>

Thus, it is no […] matters great and trivial.
**7. Because the logic of hegemony is inevitable, we must maintain primacy through all necessary means**

Jisi Wang (Director of the Institute of American Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences), US-China Economic and Security Review Commission, December 10, 2003, “The Logic of the American Hegemony”, accessed August 10, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.uscc.gov/researchpapers/translated_articles/2005/05_03_23_logic_of_the_american_hegemony.htm]]</span>

It is unrealistic for […] age of multipolarity arrive.

**8. Unipolarity is empirically and comparatively most peaceful**

WilliamWohlforth (professor of government at Dartmouth College), World Politics, January 2009, “Unipolarity, Status Competition, and Great Power War”, accessed August 22, 2010, Muse

Does unipolarity promote peace […] tend to be zero sum.9

**9. Even if they win multipolarity is possible and preferable it doesn’t matter – transition means extinction**

Zbigniew Brzezinski (National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy at Johns Hopkins University), The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership, 2004, pg. 2-4

History is a record of change, […] weapons of mass destruction.

**10. Afghan withdrawal allows the US to refocus its power – solving hegemony and global cooperation**

Kanti Bajpai (Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at Oxford), Times of India, September 13, 2010, “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy”, accessed September 16, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms]]</span>

With so much invested […] the woods for the trees.

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-﻿2AC Blocks]]﻿2AC Blocks**</span>== 
===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-﻿2AC Blocks-﻿AT Adv CPs]]﻿AT Adv CPs**</span>=== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Their band-aid approach fails – the very presence of troops radicalizes Afghanistan</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Nicholas Kristof (two-time Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for The New York Times. He is quoting a group of former intelligence officials – the qualifications of this group are embedded within this piece of evidence and their qualifications are impressive. A seasoned journalist, Kristoff has traveled to South Asia, offering a compassionate glimpse into global health, poverty, and gender in the developing world), The New York Times, September 5, 2009, “The Afghanistan Abyss”, accessed August 21, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/09/06/opinion/06kristof.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> ''Our policy makers do not … positive outcome,'' the statement said.</span>


<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Soft power solves <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">myriad global challenges</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Joseph S. Nye (former assistant secretary of Defense and Dean of Harvard University’s john F. Kennedy School of Government), Munich Security Conference, July 2, 2009, “Speech at the 45th Munich Security Conference”, accessed August 29, 2010 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.securityconference.de/Prof-Dr-Joseph-S-Nye.212.0.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> American leadership has been justifiably … international regimes, but so are others. </span>

===AT PTX=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Plan is a win for Obama**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Leslie H. Gelb (a former New York Times columnist and senior government official, is author of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0061714542/thedaibea-20|Power Rules: How Common Sense Can Rescue American Foreign Policy]]</span> (HarperCollins 2009), a book that shows how to think about and use power in the 21st century. He is president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.) “The Way Out of Afghanistan” Council on Foreign Relations, August 1, 2010. Accessed September 19, 2010.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cfr.org/publication/22740/way_out_of_afghanistan.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">World leaders soon forgot … withdraw from Afghanistan—and not lose.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Winners win**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Jonathan Singer -- senior writer and editor for MyDD. His interviews have included John Kerry, Walter Mondale, Bob Dole, Michael Dukakis, and George McGovern, Barack Obama, John Edwards, and Tom Vilsack. He has also also interviewed dozens of senatorial, congressional and gubernatorial candidates all around the country. In his writing, Singer primarily covers all aspects of campaigns and elections. He has been quoted or cited in this capacity by Newsweek, The New York Times, USA Today, The Politico, and others. My Direct Democracy, March 3, 2009, accessed September 19, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">From the latest NBC News … energy reform to ending the war in Iraq.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Political capital irrelevant – multiple case studies prove**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Jon Bond and Richard Fleischer (Professor in Political Science - Texas A&M & Professor in Political Science – Fordham), The President in Legislation. 1996.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">In sum, the evidence presented … demonstrating the importance of skills.</span>

===AT US-India RXNs DA=== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**India already perceives US withdrawal**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">David J Karl (president of the Asia Strategy Initiative, served as director of studies at the Pacific Council on International Policy, received his doctorate in international relations at the University of Southern California, took his masters degree in international relations from the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies) “The Crucible of Afghanistan” India Foreign Policy Blogs, October 5, 2010. Accessed October 14, 2010. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://india.foreignpolicyblogs.com/tag/afghanistan-study-group/]]</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Regardless of the immediate outcome … for U.S.-India relations.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Relations resilient – economic ties overwhelm the link**</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Akash Kapur, NY Times, September 23, 2010, “A Grass-Roots Rapprochement Between India and U.S.”, accessed September 30, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/24/world/asia/24iht-letter.html?_r=1]]</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The Americanization of Bangalore … political positioning or economic saber-rattling.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Kaplan’s ideas are silly and he offers no warrants or evidence as backup**</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Robert Farley (Ph.D. from the University of Washington Department of Political Science, assistant professor at the Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce at the University of Kentucky), “Balancing and Bandwagoning”, Lawyers, Gun$, and Money, September 23, 2010. Accessed October 28, 2010. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.lawyersgunsmoneyblog.com/2010/09/balancing-and-bandwagoning]]</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Robert Kaplan says all manner … empirical knowledge, while possessing neither.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Withdrawal boosts Indian power**</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Kanti Bajpai (Professor in the Politics and International Relations of South Asia at Oxford), Times of India, September 13, 2010, “Exit Is A Smarter Strategy”, accessed September 16, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/home/opinion/edit-page/Exit-Is-A-Smarter-Strategy/articleshow/6541291.cms]]</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">A US pullout will not … even closer to the US.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Relations low now**</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Pranay Sharma (Associate Foreign Editor, Outlook Magazine (India)), “It’s Tough Love.” Outlook India, September 6, 2010. Accessed October 28, 2010. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.outlookindia.com/article.aspx?266869]]</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The protracted, even duplicitous, negotiations … conjure the Bush or Clinton magic.</span>



<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**The Afghanistan war will not affect India’s policies**</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Raymond Pritchett (technologist, entrepreneur, and owns a technology consulting company in upstate New York, technical roles in secure Enterprise IT architectures, internet media marketing and business strategies, and developing secure information sharing technologies between clients and partners) “The Afghanistan Exaggeration” Information Dissemination. September 24, 2010. Accessed September 30, 2010. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.informationdissemination.net/2010/09/afghanistan-exaggeration.html]]</span></span>


<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The problem I have with this … powers like the US and China.</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-﻿2AC Blocks-AT Failed States K]]AT Failed States K**</span>=== 


**Perm do both – recognizing that our representations are imperfect opens the possibility of an ethical relationship to the Other**

Coleman Professor in the Department of English Literature at the University of Edinburgh, "Questioning Representation" 2000

As I've already suggested, a strain … alien domains of representation.

**Threats must be confronted – refusal to engage them emboldens aggression and causes conflict**

Bradley Thayer, Professor of Security Studies at Missouri State, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy,” November/December 2006 32-7

In contrast, a strategy based … the country from such threats.

**The alt is impossible chimera – multiple layers of interference make change impossible – the neg only helps tyrants and warlords**


Call (Assistant Professor in the International Peace and Conflict Resolution program, and a Senior Fellow at the U.S. Institute of Peace) 10 (Beyond the ‘failed state’: Toward conceptual alternatives, European Journal of International Relations XX(X) January 24, 2010)

Nevertheless, the implication … war-torn, and illegitimate states.

**Democratic institution building gives the greatest freedom**

Ibn Warraq (Has edited several books of Koranic criticism and on the origins of Islam, including <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1591020689/manhattaninstitu/|Leaving Islam: Apostates Speak Out]]</span>,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1591024846/manhattaninstitu/|Defending the West: A Critique of Edward Said’s Orientalism]]</span>, and Which Koran?) “Why the West is Best” City Journal, Winter 2008. Accessed September 13, 2010. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.city-journal.org/2008/18_1_snd-west.html]]</span>

Moreover, other parts of the world … full potential and live in freedom.


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-﻿2AC Blocks-AT Fem IR K]]AT Fem IR K**</span>=== 


<span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Reps irrelevant – academics overestimate how much people actually care**</span></span>

<span class="NormalF6Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gearoid Tuathail (Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute), Political Geography, pp. 664. 1996.</span></span>

<span class="NormalF6Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> While theoretical debates at academic … open to the patterned mess that is human history. </span></span>



**Patriarchy not the root cause of war – feminists miss the boat**

James Hillman (retired Director of the Jung Institute), “A Terrible Love of War,” pp. 30-31. 2004.

To imagine war to be a "man's … of war; that cause is the god.

<span class="TagCiteF8Char">**Their essentialising depictions ensure continued domination – turns the K and constitutes discursive violence**</span>

Wendy Brown (Prof. of Law at Berkely), “Left Legalism,” Duke University Press. 2002. Accessed 8/30/10.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jhfc.duke.edu/icuss/pdfs/LeftLegalism.pdf]]</span>

Yet this very list of our historical … is iterated and reiterated.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**At worst case is a timeframe disad to the K – war has the greatest effect on women and we must examine its effects to deconstruct gender hierarchies**</span>

J. Ann Tickner (professor of international relations at USC) Gendering World Politics, pp. 143. 2001.

Despite a widespread myth … discipline of IR and in political practice.

**Treating masculinism as inherent to American hegemony is a self-fulfilling prophecy – destroys chance for true alternatives**

Vibeke Schou Pedersen, “In Search of Monsters to Destroy?” International Relations, pp. 29-30. 2003.

To suggest such a recasting … say that they can be made over.

**Forcing a feminist perspective to be included generates resentment –eliminates possibilities for democratic disagreement**

Susan Bickford, (Associate Professor of Political Science, received her A.B. from Bryn Mawr College and her Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota), “Anti-Anti-Identity Politics: Feminism, Democracy, and the Complexities of Citizenship.” 1997.

Other political projects have been identified … the practice of public debate (Brown 1995, chap. 2; Elshtain 1995, xvi-xvii, 44-45,58-59).



===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-﻿2AC Blocks-AT Nietzsche K]]AT Nietzsche K**</span>=== 


**Nuclear technology means ethical norms are a necessary check on apocalypse**

Darrel Fasching (professor in USF's religious studies department), “The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima: Apocalypse or Utopia?” pp. 28. 1993.

Our modern technological civilization … face of the earth can any longer afford

**Cruelty and violence are integral to Nietzsche’s philosophy – they can’t be separated out**

Richard Wolin (Professor of History and Comparative Literature at the Graduate Center, City University), “The Seduction of Unreason: The Intellectual Romance with Fascism from Nietzsche to Postmodernism.” 2006.

Nietzsche was an apostle of cultural … Nietzsche's central philosophical intentions.

**The alt will always be misinterpreted as an excuse for violence**

Jacob Golomb and Robert S. Wistrich (Professors at the Hebrew University), “Nietzsche, Godfather of Fascism? On the Uses and Abuses of a Philosophy,” Princeton University Press. 2002. Accessed 12/2/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.pupress.princeton.edu/chapters/i7403.html]]</span>

Nietzsche was clearly an elitist … that of fin de si`ecle Europe.

**Nietzsche’s skepticism succumbs to a logical fallacy**

Andre Comte- Sponville (Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne), “The Brute, the Sophist, and the Aesthete Art in the Service of Illusion,” Why We are Not Nietzscheans. 1991.

But Nietzsche cannot then escape … I nevertheless profess to admire.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Affirmative-﻿2AC Blocks-AT Positive Peace K]]AT Positive Peace K**</span>=== 

<span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**The war in Afghanistan is centered around structural violence and any opposition to the war is necessarily opposition to that violence**</span></span>

<span class="NormalF6Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Abdul-Majid Jaffry (Retired Aircraft Engineer and Freelance Writer), “Afghanistan War – A Saga of Lopsided Death and Destruction,” Uruk Net. May 26, 2010. Accessed 10/11/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.uruknet.info/?p=66378]]</span></span></span>

<span class="NormalF6Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The frightening death and destruction … for the men, women, and children of Afghanistan. </span></span>

<span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Their argument puts the cart before the horse – in order to pursue social justice we must first ensure the absence of conflict**</span></span>

<span class="NormalF6Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Joshua S. Goldstein (Professor of International Relations at American University), “Reflections: The Mutuality of Gender and War," War and Gender, pp. 411-412. 2001.</span></span>

<span class="NormalF6Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> First, peace activists face a dilemma … to be empirically inadequate. </span></span>

**There is no tradeoff between positive and negative peace—focusing on our war impact does not preclude consideration of structural impacts**

Jerry Folk, (Professor of Religious and Peace Studies at Bethany College,) “Peace Education – Peace Studies Programs: Towards an Integrated Approach," Peace & Change, Volume 5, Number 1, Spring, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via JSTOR, p. 59, 1978

The conflicting positions … approach should be avoided.

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**Positive peace is merely an intellectual black hole that offers no mechanism for real change** </span>

Peter Lawler, a question of values: johan galtung’s peace research, 1995 p. 237)

Two concluding points concerning peace … praxeological edge or purpose. is lost.

**They embrace anti-politics – this dooms their project, creates atrocity, and cedes politics to the Right.**

Carl Boggs, (Professor of Social Sciences at National University in Los Angeles) “The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America,” Theory and Society, Volume 26, Number 6, December, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via SpringerLink, p. 773-774 1997

The decline of the public sphere … many lesser-developed countries.


=﻿Negative= 

==Heg DA== 

**1. The US possesses strong power foundations– but its role abroad is not guaranteed**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Robert J. Lieber (Professor of Government at Georgetown University), International Politics, March 2009, “Persistent primacy and the future of the American era”, 119-139</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> In general...depend on it.</span>

**2. Withdrawal destroys US credibility and power projection**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University), The National Interest, November 10, 2006, “In Defense of Primacy”, accessed August 12, 2010,</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; font-weight: normal; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://nationalinterest.org/article/in-defense-of-primacy-1300]]</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Thus, it is no surprise...align themselves with the United States.</span>

**3. Primacy prevents every scenario for nuclear conflict – there is no alternative**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Robert Kagan (Professor of American History, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund), Hoover Institute,September 7, 2007, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, accessed August 11, 2010,</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; font-weight: normal; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136]]</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">The jostling... unfavorable circumstances.</span>

==Philippines DA== 

**A. Abandonment of COIN in Afghanistan spills over and ends US counter-insurgent efforts in the Philippines**

Thomas Henriksen (Senior Fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution and the U.S. Joint Special Operations University), National Post, November 3, 2009, “As goes Afghanistan ...”, accessed September 6, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://network.nationalpost.com/np/blogs/fullcomment/archive/2009/11/03/thomas-henriksen-as-goes-afghanistan.aspx]]</span>

The outcome of the Afghanistan strategy […] to threaten the United States.


**B. Without US aid the Philippines will be overwhelmed and focus their meager military on the internal insurgency, opening the door to Chinese claims over the Spratly Islands**

Renato de Castro (in the International Studies Department of De La Salle University (Manila) and holds the Dr. Aurelio Calderon Professorial Chair of Philippine–American Relations), and Walter Lohman (Director of the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation), Heritage Foundation, June 28, 2010, “Empowering a New Era in the United States–Philippines Security Alliance”, accessed September 7, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/06/empowering-a-new-era-in-the-united-states-philippines-security-alliance]]</span>

During the Cold War, the U.S., with its military […] security crisis in East Asia.


**C. Chinese aggression in the Spratlys sparks US- Sino war**

Yossef Bodansky (Director of the Task Force on Terrorism and Unconventional Warfare of the U.S. Congress, as well as the World Terrorism Analyst with the Freeman Center for Strategic Studies, former senior consultant for the Department of Defense and the Department of State), Freeman Institute for Strategic Studies, 2006, “BEIJING'S SURGE FOR THE STRAIT OF MALACCA”, accessed September 7, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.freeman.org/m_online/bodansky/beijing.htm]]</span>

By 1993, the PLA High Command [….] Sea will become a second Persian Gulf!"

==Iran Heg DA== 

**A) US military presence key to contain Iran – withdrawal sends an Iranian greenlight that sparks preemptive Israeli strikes and regional war**

Michael Rubin (Resident scholar at American Enterprise Institute and holds a PHD in History from Yale University), American Enterprise Institute, November 2008, “Can a Nuclear Iran Be Contained or Deterred?”, accessed October 1, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.aei.org/outlook/28896]]</span>

If U.S. forces are to contain … accommodation to Tehran's interests.

**B) Israel-Iran war escalates globally**

Leonid Ivashov (Analyst at the Strategic Culture Foundation, vice-president of the Academy on geopolitical affairs. He was the chief of the department for General affairs in the Soviet Union’s ministry of Defense), AP, April 21, 2007, “Iran: The Threat of Nuclear War”, accessed October 2, 2010, Lexis

Israel will be sacrificed … respects much more nightmarish

==SoKo Deterrence DA== 

**A. US credibility is on the line – the US and South Korea just had a meeting formalizing the commitment to not do the plan to send a credible signal to North Korea**

Jung Sung-Ki, writer, Defense News, October 8, 2010 “U.S. Reaffirms Extended Deterrence for S. Korea,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=4871688&c=POL&s=TOP]]</span> accessed November 17, 2010

U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates … in the case of a full-scale war.

**B. The USS George Washington only proves our commitment to continued deterrence**

Reuters, November 25, 2010, “US aircraft carrier heads for Korea” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.malaya.com.ph/11252010/news2.html]]</span> accessed November 29, 2010

A US aircraft carrier group …stability through deterrence."

<span class="TagCiteF8Char">**C. Withdrawal turns case and causes nuclear war—this includes allied prolif, Northern aggression, cooperation breakdowns, arms races, miscalc and pre-emption**</span>

Corey Richardson, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, Asia Times, September 9, 2006,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html%20accessed%20August%2031|http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html accessed August 31]]</span>, 2010

Rumors of a substantial drawdown … even in a reunified Korea.

==China Containment DA== 

<span style="font-weight: normal;">**The US is acting to contain China and reassure allies now** </span>

<span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Robert Kagan</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (professor of American History, senior fellow at the Brookings Institute), <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Washington Post</span></span>, <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">October 1, 2010</span></span>, “America: Once engaged, now ready to lead”, accessed October 6, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/09/30/AR2010093005528.html]]</span></span>

<span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">It's not just rhetoric…</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the later Bush years.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;">**Recent events prove China’s rise will be violent, and they perceive now as the time to challenge US hegemony - reductions in military presence trigger Chinese aggression** </span>

Aaron Freidberg (professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University) The New Republic, “How Barack Obama became a China Hawk” November 10th, 2010, Accessed January 8, 2011 <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.tnr.com/blog/foreign-policy/79030/obamas-china-containment-tour-2010]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Instead of paving the way … bolster stability and keep the peace. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">**Containment now is good it is the only way to preserve heg** </span>

<span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Bradley</span></span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="color: black;"> A. </span></span><span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Thayer</span></span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="color: black;"> (Associate professor of defense and strategic studies), </span></span><span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Comparative Strategy</span></span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="color: black;">, </span></span><span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">2005</span></span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="color: black;">, “Confronting China”</span></span>

<span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="color: black;">The future of the Sino-American Relationship …</span></span><span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> U</span></span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="color: black;">nited</span></span><span style="color: black;"> S<span class="UnreadF7Char">tates in world politics.</span></span>

**<span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="color: black;">Maintaining Hegemonic dominance over China solves all conflict </span></span>**

<span style="color: black;">Bradley A. Thayer (Ph.D., Professor of National Security Studies), </span><span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">American Empire: A Debate</span></span><span style="color: black;">, 2007</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">So it is with the United States … it never takes a rest. </span>

==Security K== 

**1. The 1AC calls into existence a world inhabited by dangerous flaws in need of correction at all costs - the image of catastrophe is not an objective depiction of the way things are, but a rallying cry to eliminate otherness**

<span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">David Grondin </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">(Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa), “(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’” <span class="TagCiteF8Char">Center for United States Studies</span>, p. 12-17. <span class="TagCiteF8Char">2004</span><span class="NormalF6Char">.</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;"><span class="NormalF6Char"> Approaches that deconstruct...conditions of existence are generated</span></span>

**2. V****iolence is inevitable****—the affirmative will always be able to locate external threats - however, the desire to fight against external dangers gives way to a war on difference**

<span style="color: black;">James Der Derian, Director of the Global Security Program and Research Professor of International Studies at the Watson Institute for International Studies at Brown University ON SECURITY</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, 32-4</span>

Originating in the...desire for security.

**3.** **The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s logic of security – only through rejection can we allow actual political thought**

Mark Neocleous, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, 08 [Critique of Security, 185-6]

The only way...return the gift.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Security K-﻿AT Realism]]﻿AT Realism**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Policies that abandon anarchy discourse can create new international order** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">John S Dryzek (Political Science and Australian Research Council Federation Fellow) “Deliberate Global Politics: Discourse and Democracy in a Divided World” p. 121</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">In light of the constraints … become a matter of design. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Their inevitability claims create a self-fulfilling prophecy, it ensures that realism cannot be challenged. This card is HOT!** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Edward A. Kolodziej (Research Professor Emeritus of Political Science) “Renaissance in Security Studies? Caveat Lector!” International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 36, No. 4 (Dec., 1992), pp. 421-438] Accessed 9/1/10 JSTOR </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The contesting claims … realist theory will not be contaminated</span></span></span>

===AT Perm=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Permutation Wards off Criticism – Their “Seeminlgy Liberal” Policy Ensure Continued Eneminity and Power Politics** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Anthony Burke <span class="UnreadF7Char">(Senior Lecturer at School of Politics & IR at University of New South Wales),</span> <span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">__Beyond Security, Ethics and Violence__</span></span><span class="UnreadF7Char">, pp. 3-4.</span> 2007<span class="UnreadF7Char">. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span class="UnreadF7Char">It is clear that <span style="font-size: 6pt;">…</span></span></span><span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> systematically wards off critique. </span></span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**The nature of the perm’s combination petrifies us into inaction** </span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Ira Chernus, <span class="UnreadF7Char">(professor of Religious Studies at University of Colorado), Nuclear Madness: on</span><span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> __Religion and Psychology in the Nuclear Age__</span></span><span class="UnreadF7Char">, pp. 40-41.</span>1991<span class="UnreadF7Char">.</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Every description of reality … that anyone speaks up at all. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**The perm is a form of double-speak – the impact is genocide**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">George</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> J. <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Annas</span></span>, “Questioning of Grails: Duplicity, Betrayal, and Self-Deception in Postmodern Medical Research,” <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Journal of Contemporary Health Law and Policy. Spring 1996</span></span>. </span></span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The concepts of doubling and "doublethink" … then allows us to act irrationally. </span></span></span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Security K-﻿AT Cede the Political]]﻿AT Cede the Political**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">**Criticism is not anti-political – only critical theory can break the conservatives’ hold on the political sphere**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Wendy Brown <span class="UnreadF7Char">(Professor of Political Science at Cal-Berkeley), “</span>Edgework<span class="UnreadF7Char">,” pp. 4-5.</span> 2005<span class="UnreadF7Char">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The rebuff of critical theory …<span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> what could be more important</span></span>.</span>

===AT Framework=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**We meet – critical theory is policy relevant – their framework arbitrarily separates theory and practice** </span>

<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: left;">Security Dialogues 37.4, “Critical Approaches to Security in Europe: A Networked Manifesto,” Sage Political Science, p.30</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">More clearly than many other fields … actors involved needs close attention. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Examining the ontological and epistemological foundations of the aff come first, this is the only way to avoid error replication, moots all of their policy good arguments**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Michael Dillon and Julian</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> Reid <span class="UnreadF7Char">Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency. By: Dillon, Michael, Reid, Julian, </span><span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Alternatives: Global, Local, Political</span></span><span class="UnreadF7Char">, 03043754, Jan-Mar20</span>00<span class="UnreadF7Char">, Vol. 25, Issue 1</span> </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">More specifically… (policy) problematized by it. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Policy focus creates epistemic closure, it makes serial policy failure inevitable and reifies the status quo**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Graeme Cheeseman</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">and Robert Bruce</span></span> Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ, <span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-weight: normal;">1996</span></span>(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9) </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">This goal is pursued … the basic terms of reference.</span>

==Turkey Link== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Saving Turkey’s from external threats is fundamentally securitizing**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Mustafa Gurbuz <span class="UnreadF7Char">(Master of literary arts at Bilking University), “‘</span>IDENTITY’ PROBLEMATIQUE IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS THEORY. 2010<span class="UnreadF7Char">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">According to Habermas…the effects of this type of education. </span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Security K-﻿Iran Link]]﻿Iran Link**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**The aff’s reductionist view of Iran produces a self-fulfilling prophesy - contrasting the free west to the enemy east.**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> Majid Sharifi, PhD Candidate in Poli Sci @ Univ. of Florida, 3/12/2008 [For Presenatioan @ ISA Conference, “Imagined Enemies: US Iran Relations,”<span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p252035_index.html]]</span>] </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">In regards to Iran’s relations … analyze texts dialogically</span>

===T'urrism Link=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Framing policy in terms of “evil terrorists” allows for the statist glorification of America – perpetuates war in the name of “good” against “evil”** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Valentina Bartolucci1 <span class="UnreadF7Char">(University of Bradford and CERI Sciences Po), “Communicating Terrorism,”</span> PSA<span class="UnreadF7Char">/BISA Joint Conference on the topic. March 29-</span>April 1, 2010<span class="UnreadF7Char">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Thematic representations of terrorism <span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">__…__</span></span> strategic silences are maintained.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">China Link</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Not an objective reality—the China threat is a discursive construct that gives rise to a falsehood designed to ratify Western power** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Chengxin <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">Pan</span></span>, Department of Political Science and International Relations, Faculty of Arts, at Deakin University, August <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal;">2004</span></span>, Discourses Of ‘China’ In International Relations: A Study in Western Theory as (IR) Practice, p. 141-142 </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">These are some </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> cognitively constructed beforehand.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">North Korea Link</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**North Korean threat is a self-fulfilling prophecy: security discourse oversimplifies the threat of North Korea and hides US complicity in the standoff** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Roland Bleiker, Professor of International Relations at the University of Queensland, “A Rogue Is A Rogue Is A Rogue: US Foreign Policy And The Korean Nuclear Crisis,” //International Affairs//, Volume 79, Issue 4, July </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">This article has examined </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> accepted as real and politically legitimate.</span></span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Afghanistan Link</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**Framing Afghanistan in terms of global security upholds a militarized form of security that justifies genocidal politics.** </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Neil Cooper <span class="UnreadF7Char">(Professor of Peace Studies at Bradford), “Picking out the Pieces of the Liberal Peaces: Representations of Conflict Economies and the Implications for Policy,”</span> Security Dialogue<span class="UnreadF7Char">, pp. 471.</span> 2005<span class="UnreadF7Char">. </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The political economies … intervention may experience even more virulent versions </span>

===Nuclear T'urrism Link=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**The threat of nuclear terror is constructed to mobilize populations for violence – historical amnesia amplifies threats** </span>

<span style="font-weight: normal; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Richard Jackson<span class="UnreadF7Char">, (Centre for International Politics University of Manchester), “</span>Religion, Politics and Terrorism<span class="UnreadF7Char">: A Critical Analysis of Narratives of “Islamic Terrorism.”</span> 2007<span class="UnreadF7Char">. Accessed 9/30/10.</span></span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.socialsciences.manchester.ac.uk/disciplines/politics/researchgroups/cip/publications/documents/Jackson_000.pdf]]</span></span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">The initial <span class="UnderlinedF9Char"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">__construction …__</span></span>should fear a terrorist-induced nuclear holocaust. </span>

==Heg Good K== 
<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">A. Naïve criticisms of US hegemony undermine domestic support for primacy</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Kim Holmes (Vice President, Foreign and Defense Policy Studies and Director, Institute for International Studies), “Liberty's Best Hope,” The Heritage Foundation. March 14, 2008. Accessed 12/9/10. </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/WorldwideFreedom/hl1069.cfm]]</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">But there is a deeper, more homegrown … may find in the European Union. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">B. Discourse at the high school academic level uniquely key – leftist critique paralyzes the US</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Victor Hanson (Professor Emeritus of Classics, California State), “The Fruits of Appeasement,” California State. 2003. Accessed 12/9/10. </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://city-journal.org/html/14_2_the_fruits.html]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Rather than springing from realpolitik, … by deportation or incarceration. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">C. This criticism is suicidal and inevitably results in war – history proves</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Thomas Sowell (Senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution), “Where is the West?” Jewish World Review. November 19, 2006. Accessed 10/11/10. </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://jewishworldreview.com/cols/sowell110906.php3]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">European nations protesting Saddam Hussein's … "multiculturalism" has become dogma. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">D. The result is catastrophic violence, reemergence of conservative values, and extinction</span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Niall Ferguson (History Professor, Harvard), “A World Without Power,” Foreign Policy. 2004.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> The reversal of globalization--which … a global vacuum of power. </span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">E. The alternative is to vote negative to align yourself with American hegemony</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">The only tangible threat to heg is isolationism – rhetoric of support preserves international stability</span>**</span>

<span style="margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">William Kristol (visiting professor in government at Harvard University) and Robert Kagan (senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and PhD in American History), “Toward a Neo-Reganite Foreign Policy,” Foreign Affairs. July/August 1996. Accessed 12/9/10.</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=276]]</span></span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">TWENTY YEARS later, it is time … supremacy and moral confidence.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin-bottom: 0pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;">Butler K</span>== 
== == 
**1. The idea of a ‘woman’ is fluid and constructed through discourse – presuming a stable identity and acting to protect women without critically analyzing the feminist subject reproduces subordination and domination of the feminine**

Judith Butler <span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Prof. of Humanities at Johns Hopkins University), </span></span><span class="TagCiteF8Char">Gender Trouble</span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity. </span></span><span class="TagCiteF8Char">1999.</span>

For the most part..."women" will be clearly self defeating.

**2. Their essentialising depictions ensure continued domination – turns case and constitutes discursive violence**

Wendy Brown <span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Prof. of Law at Berkely), “Left Legalism,”</span></span> <span class="TagCiteF8Char">Duke University Press. 2002</span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Accessed 8/30/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jhfc.duke.edu/icuss/pdfs/LeftLegalism.pdf]]</span></span></span>

Yet this very list...is iterated and reiterated.

**3. Only through reconceptualization of “sex” as produced rather than divined can we break down the misconception that speaking truth to power can overcome negative circumstance – their analysis that presupposes “gender” risks reproducing what it seeks to avoid**

Judith Butler <span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Prof. of Humanities at Johns Hopkins University), </span></span><span class="TagCiteF8Char">Gender Trouble</span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity. </span></span><span class="TagCiteF8Char">1999.</span>

In the first volume...a power knowledge regime.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Butler K-Sex Trafficking Link]]Sex Trafficking Link**</span>=== 

**Discourse of sex trafficking uses an inherently gendered frame of reference**

JACQUELINE BERMAN (Rockefeller Fellow, CUNY Graduate Center), “(Un)Popular Strangers and Crises (Un)Bounded: Discourses of Sex-Trafficking, the European Political Community and the Panicked State of the Modern State,” European Journal of International Relations. 2003. Accessed 8/30/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://ejt.sagepub.com/content/9/1/37.full.pdf]]</span>

While the ‘trafficking in persons’ … in a gendered and race-cognizant frame.

===SoKo Pros Link=== 

**The aff Colonizes the Stories of South Korean Prostitutes For Their Nationalist-Feminist Movement – Erases Agency and Recreates Gender Binaries**

Na Young Lee (PhD Candidate in the Faculty of the Graduate School of the University of Maryland), “The Construction of US Camptown Prostitution in South Korea.” 2006. Accessed 8/30/10. [<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://129.2.17.93/drum/bitstream/1903/4162/1/umi-umd-3959.pdf]]</span>

In effect, despite the call … other than the abolitionist view.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Butler K-Turns Patriarchy]]Turns Patriarchy**</span>=== 

**Exclusionary discourse will be co-opted by the state to perpetuate discrimination**

Wendy Brown (Prof. of Law at Berkely), “Left Legalism,” Duke University Press. 2002. Accessed 8/30/10.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jhfc.duke.edu/icuss/pdfs/LeftLegalism.pdf]]</span>

Here, Foucault's concern is less … by which we are regulated.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Butler K-Turns Prostitution]]Turns Prostitution**</span>=== 

**Merely addressing “problematic conditions” is insufficient to create social change – it is necessary to criticize and deconstruct popular norms – until then, you’re trying to fix flaws from within a flawed syste**m

Valerie Jenness, “From Sex as Sin to Sex as Work: COYOTE and the Reorganization of Prostitution as a Social Problem,” Social Problems, Vol. 37, No. 3, pp. 403-420. University of California Press. August 1990. Accessed 8/30/10. Jstor.

While the identification and acknowledgement … prostitution as a social problem.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Butler K-SoKo Pros Alternative]] [[#Negative-Butler Critique-SoKo Pros Alternative]]SoKo Pros Alternative </span>=== 

**Reject the Affirmative’s USE and Essentialization of South Korean Prostitutes For Their Particular Political Project – The Starting Point For the Debate MUST BE How we Describe and Write Prostitution in Korea**

Na Young Lee <span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(PhD Candidate in the Faculty of the Graduate School of the University of Maryland), “</span></span>The Construction of US Camptown Prostitution in South Korea.” 2006<span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Accessed 8/30/10. [<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://129.2.17.93/drum/bitstream/1903/4162/1/umi-umd-3959.pdf]]</span></span></span>

The decisive concentration...ruling and resistance.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Butler K-AT Perm]]AT Perm**</span>=== 

**Any identification is dangerous – it necessitates the creation of exclusion – only through embracing disidentification can we create the space for change**

Judith Butler (Prof. of Humanities at Johns Hopkins University), Gender Trouble: Feminism and the Subversion of Identity. 1999.

At stake in such a reformulation … critical matters of concern.

==Ethics K== 

**1. The aff’s ethic of suffering victimize the subject, replacing one form of colonialism with another and dehumanizing all involved**

David Chandler <span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Research Fellow at the Policy Research Institute), “The Road to Military Humanitarianism: How the Human Rights NGOs Shaped A New Humanitarian Agenda,”</span></span> Human Rights Quarterly. 2001<span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Accessed 9/5/10. Muse.</span></span>

The search for victims...political ends.

**2. Claims to ethical absolutes enforce a dyadic structure that makes warfare inevitable**

Louiza Odysseus <span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(PhD in International Relations), “</span></span>Against Ethics<span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">? Iconographies of Enmity and Acts of Obligation in Carl Schmitt’s Theory of the Partisan.”</span></span> March 2003<span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Accessed 9/6/10.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.louizaodysseos.org.uk/resources/Odysseos+ISA+2008+Against+Ethics.pdf]]</span></span></span>

A third objection...consumed without remainder.

**3. The Alternative Refuses the 1ACs Demand to Situate Politics In some Ethical Framework. We Ask You to Embrace a Capacity For Action Without Ground. This Avoids the Totalitarian Compulision to** //**Legislate**// **a Harmonious Society into Existance**

Richard Villa <span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Professor of Political Theory at UC Santa Barbra), Arendt and Heidegger:</span></span><span class="UnderlinedF9Char"> The Fate of The Political</span><span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">, pp. 159-163.</span></span> 1994<span class="UnreadF7Char"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span></span>

As a political principle...judging for ourselves.

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Inoculation K]]Inoculation K**</span>== 

**First the theory – inoculation is the building up of defenses against arguments or ideas you have had to argue against in the past**
**﻿**
Andrew M. Colman, “Inoculation Theory,” Encyclopedia of Psychology. 2001.

Inoculation theory … from in into + oculus an eye or bud]

**2. By trying to advance their discourse in a competitive debate round where we are forced to attack it, the aff inoculates us to their cause**

Michael Pfau et al (Bobi Ivanov, Brian Houston, Michel Haigh, Jeanetta Sims, Eileen Gilchrist, Jason Russell, Shelley Russell, Shelley Wigley, Jacki Eckstein, Natalie Richert), Communication Monographs, v. 27, no. 4, pp. 414-441. December 2005.

Recent research on inoculation, … pivotal roles in the process of resistance.

**3. The importance of the ballot fosters resistance, turning their discourse**

Michael Pfau et al (Bobi Ivanov, Brian Houston, Michel Haigh, Jeanetta Sims, Eileen Gilchrist, Jason Russell, Shelley Russell, Shelley Wigley, Jacki Eckstein, Natalie Richert), Communication Monographs, v. 27, no. 4, pp. 414-441. December 2005.

Research also indicates that issue involvement, … counterattitudinal persuasive attacks.

**4. The alt is to vote neg – providing us the ballot makes us much more receptive to the ideas they’ve presented**

Ryan Goei and Franklin Boster, Communication Monographs, v. 72, no. 3, pp. 284. September 2005.

Several studies suggest that … but not the obligation explanation.

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Congress CP]]Congress CP**</span>== 

**It competes, only the president has the power to withdraw military forces, the counterplan just ends funding which solves**

Jeffrey Rosen, author, 3/4/07, “In Wartime, Who Has the Power?”, The New York Times,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1]]</span>

Legal scholars — both critics … for specified numbers of troops.

**And, Congress is the best way to effectuate a social change, we solve better**

Stoddard 1997 72 N.Y.U.L. Rev. 967

The arena of change may also … what is, in the end, done.

**The time to act is now: unchecked presidential authority will soon become commonplace if there is no intervention**

Shane, May 2009: [Peter M. - Chair in Law at the Ohio State University’s Moritz College of Law, internationally recognized authority on constitutional and administrative law. May 2009, Excerpt from “Madison’s Nightmare: How Executive Power Threatens American Democracy,” <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.press.uchicago.edu/Misc/Chicago/749396.html]]</span>

For the last quarter century… historically intended. It is not.

**Congressional reigning in of the executive key to check interventionism and war**

Holt 07 [Pat, former chief of staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee “Between Congress and the president, a power seesaw” Christian Science Monitor, Feb 1, Lexis]
American involvement in Iraq … take the lead in foreign crises.

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Consult the NATO CP]]Consult the NATO CP**</span>== 

**US influence ensures NATO says yes**

Mark Webber, professor of politics, international relations and European Studies at Loughborough University (UK), “NATO: The United States, Transformation and the War in Afghanistan”, The British Journal of Politics and International Relations, January 21, 2009<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-856X.2008.00349.x/full%20accessed%20August%2031|http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-856X.2008.00349.x/full accessed August 31]]</span>, 2010

No one would deny […] Washington summit in 1999.

**US – NATO relations high but remains vulnerable to US unilateralism**

Walter B. Slocombe “Towards A New NATO Strategic Concept A View from the United States” Perspective, June 2010<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://library.fes.de/pdf-files/id/ipa/07299.pdf]]</span> accessed August 5, 2010

Nonetheless, NATO remains […] interests than their own.

(((INSERT SPECIFIC LINK)))

**NATO key to deal with political violence and prevent nuclear war**

Zbigniew Brzezinski, former U.S. National Security Adviser, Sept/Oct 2009, “An Agenda for NATO,” Foreign Affairs, 88.5, Ebsco

NATO's potential is not […] and the West more generally.



==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-MPX Turns]]MPX Turns**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-MPX Turns-Bio-D Loss Good]]Bio-D Loss Good**</span>=== 

**Defense:**

**a) Precautionary principle is warrantless bad policy making**

Julian Simon, State of Humanity, pp. 358-9. 1995.

The argument that because … frightening hypothetical scenario.

**b) Environment resilient – functional redundancy checks**

Holly Doremus (Law Professor, California), Washington and Lee Law Review, v. 11. 2000.

Reluctant to concede such losses … lost without precipitating a collapse. n217

**c) They don’t access extinction – empirics prove**

David Jablonski (Prof @ Department of Geophysical Sciences, University of Chicago), “Lessons from the past: Evolutionary impacts of mass extinctions,” National Academy of Sciences. May 16, 2001. Accessed 10/24/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.pnas.org/content/98/10/5393.full]]</span>

Mass extinctions have played … some of these issues as well.

**Offense:**

**a) Species loss causes better-adapted species to evolve**

Donald Dodds (MS in PE. President, North Pacific Research), “The Myth of Biodiversity.” 2007. Accessed 10/8/10.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://northpacificresearch.com/downloads/The_myth_of_biodiversity.doc]]</span>

Notice next that at least ten … with a changing environment.
**b) Extinctions are a natural part of the evolutionary process – key to allow human life**

John Kunich (Professor of Law, Appalachian School of Law), Environmental Law Journal, pp. 501. 1994.

The ESA manifests no evidence … of the gene pool at any point in time.

**c) Unlimited species growth causes final extinction**

Michael Boulter (professor of paleobiology at the University of East London), “Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man,” pp. 67. 2002.


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">If biological evolution really … to retain life on this planet.</span>

===Cap Good=== 

**Defense**

**a. Benefits outweigh – even if cap works out better for some than others, it’s better than not helping the others at all**

Edwin Locke (Senior Writer for the Ayn Rand Institute), “Workers of the World, End Poverty: Unite for Global Capitalism!” Capitalism Magazine. September 12, 2003. Accessed 7/11/09. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://capmag.com/article.asp?ID=918]]</span>

The advantage of a global economy … to lose but your poverty.

**b. Their analysis is flawed – doesn’t assume that poverty has been the normal condition throughout history and only cap has ameliorated its impacts**

Doug Bandow (senior fellow at the CATO Institute), “Globalization Serves the World's Poor,” CATO Institute. March 25, 2001. Accessed 10/7/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/dailys/04-25-01.html]]</span>

Indeed, the problems of globalization … comes increased wealth.

**c. Cap key to environmental protection**

Johan Norberg (Senior Fellow at Cato Institute), In Defense of Global Capitalism, 2003, pg 224

Although multinational corporations … begin to rectify past mistakes.

**No alt**

**a. Leftists are merely seeking destruction but can posit no constructive alt**

Edwin Locke (Senior Writer for the Ayn Rand Institute), “Workers of the World, End Poverty: Unite for Global Capitalism!” Capitalism Magazine. September 12, 2003. Accessed 7/11/09. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://capmag.com/article.asp?ID=918]]</span>

By what right do we deprive … to lose but your poverty.

**b. Even if cap’s not, human greed is inevitable – only capitalism peacefully channels it into a system that is morally responsible and net beneficial for all**

Ronald Nash (Prof of Phil @ Southern Baptist), “Government is Too Big and It’s Costing You!” Free Republic. 2002. Accessed 10/7/10.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/news/1352736/posts]]</span>

Among all of our economic options … privileged class of Socialist rulers.”

**c. Even if cap is bad and not inevitable, transitions from capitalism unbalance global power structures – ensures extinction**

C.R. Kothari (Professor of Political Science at the University of Delhi), “Towards a Just Social Order,” pp. 571. 1982.

Attempts at global economic reform … eventual global holocaust.

**Offense**

**a. Modern capitalism makes war 14 times less likely – there’s only a risk of economic loss from warfare**

Erik Gartzke (Former associate prof of pol sci, Columbia), “Future Depends on Capitalizing on Capitalist Peace,” Cato Institute. October 2005. Accessed 10/7/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=5133]]</span>

With terrorism achieving "global … nations from this historic opportunity.

**b. Capitalist privatization is key to space exploration and colonization**

Richard Garmong (PhD in philosophy), “Privatize Space Exploration,” Capitalism Magazine. 2005. Accessed 10/7/10.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.capmag.com/article.asp?ID=4327]]</span>

As NASA scrambles to … lobby on their behalf.

**c. We are at a critical stage in humyn development for space exploration to prevent extinction**

Sylvia Engdahl, 1994, “Space and Human Survival, Part I”, accessed June 14, 2010, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.sylviaengdahl.com/space/survival.htm]]</span>

I have called this stage … resources that are virtually unlimited.


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-MPX Turns-China Containment Good]]China Containment Good**</span>=== 

**Peaceful Chinese rise is impossible – the most recent empirics prove**

No Author Given, The Economist, September 24, 2010, “Out but not over”, accessed October 5 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.economist.com/blogs/asiaview/2010/09/chinas_spat_japan]]</span>

IN THE end, it came down … All this goodwill is lost.
**Containment now is good – it’s the best chance for success and solves the impact to risks, and is key to heg**

Bradley A. Thayer (Associate professor of defense and strategic studies), Comparative Strategy, 2005, “Confronting China”

The future of the Sino-American Relationship … United States in world politics.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-MPX Turns-Imperialism Good]]Imperialism Good**</span>=== 

**US hegemony is part of a cycle of empires – abandoning it only leads to apolarity and anarchy**

Niall Ferguson (Prof of History at NYU Stern), “A World Without Power,” Foreign Policy. 2004. Accessed 10/7/10.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2004/07/01/a_world_without_power]]</span>

Critics of U.S. global dominance … into a few fortified enclaves.

**Because the logic of imperialism is inevitable, we must maintain primacy through all necessary means**

Jisi Wang (Director of the Institute of American Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences), US-China Economic and Security Review Commission, December 10, 2003, “The Logic of the American Hegemony”, accessed August 10, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.uscc.gov/researchpapers/translated_articles/2005/05_03_23_logic_of_the_american_hegemony.htm]]</span>

It is unrealistic for now to drag … the age of multipolarity arrive.

**Cultural imperialism is objectively good – solves terror and helps the poor – arguments against it are just smear tags from leftists who hate America**

Robert Tracinski (editor and publisher of The Intellectual Activist and TIADaily and formed member of the Ayn Rand Institute), “An Empire of Ideals,” Ayn Rand Institute. October 8, 2001. Accessed 10/7/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.aynrand.org/site/News2?page=NewsArticle&id=7392&news_iv_ctrl=1076]]</span>

The long-term answer … is the best disinfectant.
**US imperialism is the linchpin of global stability – the threat of instability checks abuse of power**

Jean Bethke Elshtain (Laura Spelman Rockefeller Professor of Social and Political Ethics at the University of Chicago Divinity School), “Just War Against Terrorism,” pp. 169. 2003.

The heavy burden being imposed … it can no longer be borne.

**Liberal imperialism best – empirically proven to be preferable to any alternative**

Stanley Kurtz (Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University), “Democratic Imperialism: A Blueprint.” April/May 2003. Accessed 10/7/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/3449176.html]]</span>

Our commitment to political … favor of liberal imperialism.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-MPX Turns-Prez Powers Good]]Prez Powers Good**</span>=== 

**Prez powers key to hegemony**

J.R. Paul (Professor of Law at the University of Connecticut), California Law Review, July 1998, “The Geopolitical Constitution: Executive Expediency and Executive Agreements”, v. 86, Lexis

Borchard's Yale colleagues, Professors … both internationally and domestically.

**Prez power key to stop terrorism**

Stuart Taylor Jr and Evan Thomas (Writers for Newsweek Magazine), Quoting Jack Goldsmith formerly a Bush Justice Department official, now a Harvard Law School professor, Newsweek, January 10, 2009, “Obama’s Cheney Dilemma”, accessed October 28, 2010,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/id/178855]]</span>

In times of war and crisis, as … presidency than an enfeebled one."

**Terrorism causes extinction**

Mohamed Sid-Ahmed (Al-Ahram Weekly political analyst), Al-Ahram Weekly, August 26, 2004, "Extinction!", no. 705,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]</span>]

What would be the consequences … planet, we will all be losers.

**Weak presidential power causes multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict**

South China Morning Post, December 11, 2000, accessed October 28, 2010, Lexis

A weak president with an unclear mandate … be in a position to do so.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-MPX Turns-Realism Good]]Realism Good**</span>=== 

**It’s inevitable**

**a. Other states**

John Mearsheimer (Professor at University of Chicago), The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pp. 30. 2001.

The first assumption is that … fear, self-help, and power maximization.[[#_GoBack]]

**b. Policy-makers**

Stefano Guzzini (Assistant Professor at Central European U), Realism in Int’l Relations, pp. 21. 1998.

Therefore in a third step, … in the spirit, of realism.

**c. Predator states**

Alexander Wendt (Professor of Political Science, Ohio State), “Anarchy is what States Make of it,” International Organization, 46.2, pp. 407-8. 1992.

The predator argument is straightforward … the one to exploit them.

**d. No alternative system**

Alistair J. H. Murray, lecturer in the department of politics at the University of Swansea, Reconstructing Realism Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, pg 189 1997

In the final analysis, then, … is manifestly unable to provide.

**It’s good**

**a. It’s the only way to prevent war**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Francis J. Gavin (Ph.D. in History from U of Pennsylvania and former John M. Olin Postdoctoral Fellow in National Security at the Centre for International Affairs at Harvard University), “The Wilsonian Legacy in the Twentieth Century,” Orbis, v. 41, is. 4, pp. 628-41. Autumn 1997.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> These criticisms should not … Wilson’s most lasting legacy. </span>

**b. It solves conflict escalation**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Stephen Flynn (senior fellow for national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, and Consulting Professor, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University), The Edge of Disaster: Rebuilding a Resilient Nation, pp. 9-10. 2007.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Thinking about and preparing … when things go wrong. </span>

**c. It’s key to ethics**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Michael Williams (Sr. Lecturer in the Department of Int’l Politics at the University of Wales), The Realist Tradition and the Limits of Int’l Relations, pp. 178-179. 2005.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Beyond ultimate ground … abdicate one’s responsibility. </span>

**Transition is bad**

**a. It increases violence**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Alastair Murray, Professor Politics at the University of Wales, 1997 (Alastair J.H., Reconstructing Realism: Between Power Politics and Cosmopolitan Ethics, p. 185-6, 1997</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Yet Linklater concedes that … luxury of attempting to address them.</span>

**b. Creates a new dark age**

<span style="font-weight: normal;">Hussein Solomon, (Senior Researcher, Human Security Project, Institute for Defence Policy), “In Defense of Realism,” African Security Review, 1996.</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"> But, the most powerful argument … of the Dark Age variety.</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-MPX Turns-Warming Good]]Warming Good**</span>=== 

<span class="TagCiteF8Char">**We’re averting an ice age now but continued warming’s key**</span>

Mason Inman, National Geographic News, “New Ice Age Predicted - But Averted by Global Warming?” 11-12, National Geographic News,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/pf/29078080.html]]</span> 2008

Deep ice sheets would cover … hundreds of thousands of years," she said.

<span class="TagCiteF8Char"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**The impact is extinction by 2027**</span></span>


Phil Chapman, Geophysicist, Former NASA Astronaut, “Sorry to ruin the fun, but an ice age cometh,” The Austrailian, 2008, 4-34,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.sciencealert.com.au/opinions/20082105-17356.html]]</span>

It is time to put aside the global warming dogma … an incomprehensible stretch of time.

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-MPX Turns-Util Good]]Util Good**</span>=== 

**Util and deontology converge in the face of large-scale impacts – we have a duty to take action**

Sissela Bok (Professor of Philosophy, Brandeis), Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory. 1988.

The same argument can be made … world not perish.

**Ignoring consequences sacrifice others to preserve moral purity – we must act to produce the best end regardless of the means**

Saul D. Ailinsky (Activist, Professor, Social Organizer with Int’l Fame, Founder of Industrial Areas Foundation), Rules for Radicals, pp. 24-7. 1971.

“Does this particular end … endure the misfortunes of others.”

**Because of the combined risk of existential threats, they should be a higher priority than feel-good projects**

Nick Bostrom (Director of Future of Humanitary Institute at Oxford University, Professor of applied ethics, Co-founded Institute of Ethics and Emerging Technologies, Consultant on the President’s Council on Bioethics), “Existential Risks- Analyzing Human Extinction and Related Hazards,” Journal of Evolution and Technology. March 2002. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; color: windowtext; padding-right: 10px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html]]</span>

Previous sections have argued … especially if we play our cards right.

**Their claims to ethical absolutes enforce a dyadic structure that makes warfare inevitable**

Louiza Odysseus (PhD in International Relations), “Against Ethics? Iconographies of Enmity and Acts of Obligation in Carl Schmitt’s Theory of the Partisan.” March 2003. Accessed 9/6/10. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.louizaodysseos.org.uk/resources/Odysseos+ISA+2008+Against+Ethics.pdf]]</span>

A third objection, still, has … consumed without remainder’ (Rasch 2003: 137).


==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats]]Specific Neg Strats**</span>== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Valley]]Valley**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Valley-Round 1: GBS ST (Afghanistan COIN)]]Round 1: GBS ST (Afghanistan COIN)</span>==== 
1NC: Security K, DipFoc DA, Philippines DA, Case
2NC: Philippines DA, Stability Adv
1NR: DipFoc DA, Heg Adv
2NR: DipFoc DA, Case

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Valley-Round 3: Maine East KM (DUBs)]]Round 3: Maine East KM (DUBs)</span>==== 
1NC: Reduce Presence T, Substantially T, Ethics K, Soft Power DA, START PTX, Case
2NC: Ethics K, Case
1NR: Reduce Presence T
2NR: Reduce Presence T

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Valley-Round 6: Iowa City HS (SoKo Policy)]]Round 6: Iowa City HS (SoKo Policy)</span>==== 
1NC: Security K, Condition NK CP, START PTX, DipFoc DA, Case
2NC: Security K, NK Adv
1NR: DipFoc DA, Heg Adv
2NR: Security K

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-New Trier]]New Trier**</span>=== 

Round 1 we debate novices... I just closed for some stuff they dropped

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-New Trier-Round 3: GDS FL (Okinawa Security/Biopower)]]Round 3: GDS FL (Okinawa Security/Biopower)</span>==== 
1NC: Congress CP, Consult the Okinawan People CP, Heg DA, Framework (can’t claim solvency off in-round discourse), Case
2NC: Congress CP, Framework, Case
1NR: Heg DA
2NR: Congress CP, Case

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-New Trier-Round 5: CR Wash BK (SoKo Security)]]Round 5: CR Wash BK (SoKo Security)</span>==== 
1NC: Congress CP, Attack North Korea CP, Heg DA, Framework, Case
2NC: Congress CP, Case
1NR: Attack NK CP, Heg DA
2NR: Congress CP, Case

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-New Trier-Octas: Jesuit GM (Okinawa Policy)]]Octas: Jesuit GM (Okinawa Policy)</span>==== 
1NC: Substantially is 50% T, Security K, Shimoji CP, Heg DA, Case
2NC: Security K, Case
1NR: Heg DA
2NR: Security K

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Iowa Caucus]]Iowa Caucus**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Iowa Caucus-Round 1: Mukwonago ?? (Attack NK)]]Round 1: Mukwonago ?? (Attack NK)</span>==== 
1NC: Redeployment Extra T, Framework, Case
2NC: Redeployment Extra T, Hillman Adv
1NR: Spanos Adv
2NR: Redeployment Extra T

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Iowa Caucus-Round 3: Wayzata DM (Iraq Courts)]]Round 3: Wayzata DM (Iraq Courts)</span>==== 
1NC: FX T, Security K, Congress CP, Heg DA, Iran Heg DA, Case
2NC: Iran Heg DA, Case
1NR: Heg DA
2NR: Iran Heg DA, Case

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Iowa Caucus-Round 5: Millard South HM (Spanos)]]Round 5: Millard South HM (Spanos)</span>==== 
1NC: Inoculation K, Heg DA, Case
2NC: Inoculation K, Case
1NR: Heg DA
2NR: Heg DA

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Millard West/South]]Millard West/South**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Millard West/South-Round 2: SF Roosevelt CS (TNWs Policy)]]Round 2: SF Roosevelt CS (TNWs Policy)</span>==== 
1NC: Presence T, Substantially is 50% T, Security K, Fuel Bank CP, Heg DA, Case
2NC: Security K, Presence T
1NR: Case
2NR: Security K, Case

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Millard West/South-Round 4: Watertown CH (SoKo Policy)]]Round 4: Watertown CH (SoKo Policy)</span>==== 
1NC: SoKo =/= Presence T, Security K, Team Spirit CP, Heg DA, SoKo Deterrence DA, Case
2NC: Team Spirit CP, SoKo Deterrence DA
1NR: Case
2NR: SoKo Deterrence DA, Case

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Millard West/South-Round 5: Westside EF (TNWs Policy)]]Round 5: Westside EF (TNWs Policy)</span>==== 
1NC: Presence T, Security K, Fuel Bank CP, Uniqueness CP, Heg DA, NATO DA, Case
2NC: Presence T, Heg DA
1NR: Case
2NR: Heg DA, Case

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Millard West/South-Quarters: Lincoln ?? (Dedev)]]Quarters: Lincoln ?? (Dedev)</span>==== 
1NC: Heg DA, Fiating Solvency Bad Theory, Case
2NC: Theory, Case turns
1NR: Heg DA, Case defense
2NR: Case

====Finals: SF Lincoln DE (Afghanistan)==== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">1NC: Fight Club K, Time Cube, Dedev, Consult Chuck Norris CP, Consult Jesus CP, PIC out of ink color</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> 2NC: Fight Club K, Dedev, PIC</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> 1NR: Consult Jesus CP, Time Cube</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> 2NR: Wipeout</span>

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Dowling]]Dowling**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Dowling-﻿Round 1: UC Lab EY (SoKo Security)]]﻿Round 1: UC Lab EY (SoKo Security)</span>==== 
1NC: SoKo =/= Presence T, Framework, Heg Good K, Attack NK CP, SoKo Deterrence DA, Case
2NC: Heg Good K, CP Net Benefit
1NR: Case
2NR: Heg Good K, Case

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Dowling-﻿Round 4: Iowa City West DH (Afghanistan COIN)]]﻿Round 4: Iowa City West DH (Afghanistan COIN)</span>==== 
1NC: Security K, Consult NATO CP, Iran Heg DA, Philippines DA, Case
2NC: Security K
1NR: Case
2NR: Security K

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Dowling-﻿Round 6: OPRF CR (SoKo Policy)]]﻿Round 6: OPRF CR (SoKo Policy)</span>==== 
1NC: SoKo =/= Presence T, Security K, Team Spirit CP, Heg DA, SoKo Deterrence DA, Case
2NC: SoKo Deterrence DA, Case
1NR: Security K
2NR: Security K

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Blake]]Blake**</span>=== 

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Blake-Round 2: CPS LP (Afghanistan COIN)]]Round 2: CPS LP (Afghanistan COIN)</span>==== 
1NC: Security K, 2014 PIC, Khorasan PIC, Iran Heg DA, Philippines DA, Case
2NC: 2014 PIC, Case, Iran Heg DA
1NR: Security K
2NR: Security K

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Blake-Round 4: New Trier CK (BMD)]]Round 4: New Trier CK (BMD)</span>==== 
1NC: Presence T, Security K, Consult Japan CP, Case
2NC: Presence T, Case
1NR: Security K
2NR: Presence T

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Blake-Round 5: CPS KS (SoKo Pros)]]Round 5: CPS KS (SoKo Pros)</span>==== 
1NC: SoKo =/= Presence T, ROK =/= SoKo T, Butler K, Reform CP, SoKo Deterrence DA, Heg DA, Case
2NC: Heg DA, Case
1NR: Butler K
2NR: Butler K

====<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#Negative-Specific Neg Strats-Blake-Doubles: Mountain Brook MQ (PMCs)]]Doubles: Mountain Brook MQ (PMCs)</span>==== 
1NC: Its T, Presence T, Security K, Reform CP, Consult NATO CP, Case
2NC: NATO Net Ben., Case
1NR: Security K
2NR: Security K

=== ===