[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=Iraq Affirmative= 
==1AC Heg- TOC== 
Contention One: Heg
The US will inevitably withdraw from Iraq but not before – neg arguments don’t assume the Iraqi parliament and are cheerful rhetoric.
Mohammad Akef Jamal, staff writer for the Gulf News, “America's Iraq war far from over,” 4/20/2011, http://gulfnews.com/opinions/columnists/america-s-iraq-war-far-from-over-1.796096
Reports that the US is planning… regarding the capabilities of Iraqi forces to stand alone.

Delaying withdrawal jacks heg – guts our credibility and costs hundreds of billions of dollars.
Raed Jarrar, senior fellow on the Middle East at Peace Action, and Erik Leaver, research fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Top US general miss-steps,” 3/4/2010, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/LC04Ak02.html
In another statement, covered … to being a stable and prosperous country.

Credibility is key to heg.
Nye and Armitage 7 Distinguished Service Professor at Harvard University and President of Armitage International (Joseph & Richard, *Note: Report was in collaboration with about 50 other congressmen, “CCIS Commission of Smart Power – A Smarter, more Secure America”, http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/071106_csissmartpowerreport.pdf)
Today’s Challenges The twenty-… the enemy’s will to fight.

Heg solves global nuclear war.
Khalilzad ‘11 (ZALMAY KHALILZAD FEBRUARY 8, 2011 4:00 A.M. The Economy and National Security — Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992.
We face this domestic challenge while … Chinese hegemony and aggression.

==1AC Iraq- TOC== 
First is stability – staying past the deadline causes backlash from al-Sadr – the result is a new counterinsurgency.
Kazem Atwan and Sirwa Horami, staff writers for AK News, “Sadr threatens to mobilize Mahdi Army again,” 4/9/2011, http://aknews.com/en/aknews/4/230757/
Shia cleric Moqtada al-Sadr has threatened … resistance through rallies and protests in Iraq." he said.

That also fractures al-Maliki’s fragile coalition.
The National, news agency based in the United Arab Emirates, “Iraq needs a compromise, but instead it has al Maliki,” 12/7/2010, http://www.alarabiya.net/views/2010/12/07/128782.html
To govern effectively, Mr al … Sadr's 40 seats in Parliament.

That destabilizes the country – unity is key.
BBC 6/25 (6/25/10, “Glittering gathering reflects Iraq's election crisis”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/8760966.stm)
At a glittering reception at the British embassy …r room before blowing themselves up.

Iraq instability causes global nuclear war – draws in outside powers.
Jerome R. Corsi, staff writer for World Net Daily and has a PhD in political science from Harvard University, "War with Iran is imminent,” 1/8/2007, http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?ARTICLE_ID=53669
If a broader war breaks out in Iraq…, much as World Wars I and II began.

Their impact defense doesn’t apply – Iraq is distinct from the rest of the Middle East.
Niall Ferguson, Laurence A. Tisch Professor of History at Harvard, September-October, 2006, The Next War of the World, Foreign Affairs, p. lexis
What makes the escalating civil war … likely on Palestine and Mesopotamia.

Second is relations – delaying withdrawal jacks US-Iraq relations.
Juan Cole, Richard P. Mitchell Collegiate Professor of History at the University of Michigan. “One Year Later: Did Obama Win the Iraq War?” January 1, 2010, http:// http://www.juancole.com/2010/01/one-year-later-did-obama-win-iraq-war.html,
President Barack Hussein Obama was inaugurated a … role there will bring a sea change.

Even if relations are inevitable the plan is key to effectiveness – Iraq must look like it’s in control.
Anthony Cordesman, Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy at the CSIS, “Creating a Strategic Partnership,” 6/24/2010, http://csis.org/publication/iraq-and-united-states
At the same time, the …, and support for the Iraqi government.

US-Iraq relations are key to solve Iranian adventurism and the global economy.
Anthony Cordesman, Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy at the CSIS, “Creating a Strategic Partnership,” 6/24/2010, http://csis.org/publication/iraq-and-united-states
Such support will have … as to any direct importer of gulf oil.

Iran adventurism causes nuclear war.
Ben-Meir, 2/6/2007 (Alon – professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs, Ending iranian defiance, United Press International, p. lexis)
That Iran stands today able to challenge or even defy the United States in every sphere of American influence in the Middle East attests to the dismal failure of the Bush administration's policy toward it during the last six years. Feeling … consequences of not halting its nuclear program.

Economic collapse causes nuclear war.
Walter Russell Mead, NPQ's Board of Advisors, New Perspectives Quarterly, Summer 1992, p.30
What if the global economy stagnates… Japan did in the '30s.

Third – prolonged presence jacks Iraqi democracy.
Beetham 9 Professorship of Politics at the University of Leeds (David, ’09, “The Contradictions of Democratization by Force: the Case of Iraq', 16: 3, 443 — 454 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13510340902914338)
The logic of self-determinationIf the … of democratic self-determination.

Delaying withdrawal undermines the government.
Hanna 4/4 fellow and program officer at The Century Foundation [Michael, 4/4/10, “When Should the United States Leave Iraq?” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66188/michael-wahid-hanna/stay-the-course-of-withdrawal)

Taking an overly pessimistic view of the … spurring renewed violence.
Strong government is key to their democratic transition.
Enterline and Greig 4 associate professor and assistant professor of political science at University of North Texas (Andrew and Michael, 9/8/04, “Beacons of Hope? The Impact of Imposed Democracy
on Regional Peace, Democracy, and Prosperity”, www.psci.unt.edu/enterline/beaconsofhope_offprint.pdf)

We find partial support for Hypothesis 1 in Table 3. … that undermines regional peace. Regional Democracy
Iraq is key to global democracy.
Davis-Hanson 5 PhD in classics from Stanford (Victor, 2/11/05, “Why Democracy? Ten reasons to support democracy in the Middle East”, http://www.papillonsartpalace.com/wdhy.htm) MH
Neoconservatives hope that a … dethroned and Saddam's clan either dead or in chains.

Extinction
Larry Diamond 95, Hoover Institution, Stanford University, December, PROMOTING DEMOCRACY IN THE 1990S, 1995, p. http://www.carnegie.org//sub/pubs/deadly/diam_rpt.html
Nuclear, chemical and biological … destruction of their environments.

==1AC Solvency/Plan Text- TOC== 
Thus the plan:
The United States federal government should initiate and complete a phased withdrawal of United States military forces in Iraq slated for withdrawal as stipulated by the current Status of Forces Agreement.

Withdrawal allows legitimate Iraqi policymakers to enter the government and creates organic democracy
Ad Ali 7 advised on constitutional, parliamentary and judicial reform in Iraq (Zaid, 1/19/7 “The United States in Iraq: The Complete Case for Withdrawal”, http://www.opendemocracy.net/conflict-iraq/withdrawal_4264.jsp)
The explosion at Mustansiriyah University that killed …. What they want and what they need is to be free once and for all.

Sticking to the SOFA deadline restores American credibility
Martel 9 Professor of IR at Tufts University (William, 7/1/09, “Reprinted from USA Today”, http://fletcher.tufts.edu/news/2009/op-eds/Martel_July1.shtml) MH
Sticking to deadlines boosts U.S. … into catastrophe carries great strategic risks.

No instability post withdrawal- current attacks are meant to make a political statement
Col. Reese 9 Chief, Baghdad Operations Command Advisory Team, MND-B, Baghdad, Iraq (Timothy, 7/30/9, “Text of Colonel Reese’s Memo”, http://www.nytimes.com/2009/07/31/world/middleeast/31advtext.html, MH)
The general lack of progress in … jockey for power in post-occupation Iraq.

==1AC Plan Text - Wake== 
**The United States federal government should withdraw its military and police presence from Iraq.**

==1AC Realism - Wake== 
**Iraq is the battleground test for realism against rising IR Theories of neo-conservative foreign policy.**
**Mearsheimer 05** – the R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science and the co-director of the Program on International Security Policy at the University of Chicago. Ph.D. in political science, He spent the 1979-1980 academic year as a research fellow at the Brookings Institution, and was a post-doctoral fellow at Harvard University's Center for International Affairs from 1980 to 1982. During the 1998-1999 academic year, he was the Whitney H. Shepardson Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. (John J., “Hans Morgenthau and the Iraq war: realism versus neo-conservatism” Published on Democracy News Analysis, May 18th 2005, pdf, p. 6-9, MT)
There is no question that … as well as certain restraints.”

**Realism rejected the Iraq war for multiple reasons – we must draw down our military footprint to preserve realist theory. Staying in Iraq gives neo-conservative theories a victory to control US foreign policy.**
**Schmidt* & Williams 08** - *Associate Professor of Political Science at Carleton, Previously he taught at the State University of New York, New Paltz and the University at Wales, Aberystwyth. He holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from the University at Albany, State University of New York. Professor in the Graduate School of Public and International Affairs at the University of Ottawa. His research interests are in International Relations theory, security studies, and political thought. (*Brian C. and Michael C. “The Bush Doctrine and the Iraq War: Neoconservatives Versus Realists” 201-208)
Many realist scholars never accepted … much of the world today.

**U.S. military presence in Iraq violates the tenants of Realism, understanding how these conflicts occurred is essential to overall U.S. grand strategy and our decisions for war prevention.**
**Booth 09** – Treasurer for NYU’s History Department Undergraduate Journal (Logan S., “The Vietnam and Iraq Wars: The Antithesis of Realism” Lethbridge Undergraduate Research Journal. 2009. Volume 4 Number 1. P. 1-6)
Despite the fact that some … US into Vietnam and Iraq.


**Refusal to theorize war increases its probability and deadliness**
**WALT 1991** (Stephen, Professor at the University of Chicago, International Studies Quarterly 35, p. 225)
The Power of Ideas. Finally, … subject of how states learn.


**Refusing to theorize about war ensures flawed policymaking and error replication**
**WALT 1991** (Stephen, Professor at the University of Chicago, International Studies Quarterly 35, p. 229)
A recurring theme of this … of war in the future.

==1AC Nation Building Adv - Wake== 

**The US final mission in Iraq is nation building- it’s failing**
**Peterson 8/16** staff writer for Christian Science Monitor (Scott, 8/16/10, “US in Iraq: What's been left behind”, http://www.csmonitor.com/World/tMiddle-East/2010/0816/US-in-Iraq-What-s-been-left-behind, MH)
But that reaction is … . James Roche. "It takes time."

**The occupation of Iraq as an attempt at freedom promotion is the major cause of global warfare. US occupation ensures a endless cycle of violence**
**Burke 5** Prof. of Politcs & IR @ Univ. of New South Wales (Anthony, Social Identities 11.4, “Freedom’s Freedom: American Enlightenment and Permanent War,” p. 322-3)
Hannah Arendt recognized this instrumental, … , in their full diversity’ (Arendt, 2002, pp. 19_/34).

**No impact turns- only nonviolent promotion leads to genuine democracy growth**
**Payne 7** research fellow at Independent Institute (James, 2007, “Does Nation Building Work”, Opposing the Crusader State: Alternatives to Global Interventionism, p.144-5 MH)
In assessing the effectiveness of … “success” of a nation building effort.

**Withdrawal causes political alignment, ending sectarian violence and increasing stability**
**Ad Ali 7** advised on constitutional, parliamentary and judicial reform in Iraq (Zaid, 1/19/7 “The United States in Iraq: The Complete Case for Withdrawal”, http://www.opendemocracy.net/conflict-iraq/withdrawal_4264.jsp)
The explosion at Mustansiriyah University … free once and for all.

==1AC Decision Calc - Wake== 

**The nexus question of policymaking is which theory of IR one accepts – theories must be tested and decided upon prior to policy action.**
**Chernoff, 2007** (Fred, “Theory and metatheory in international relations: concepts and contending accounts,” p. 36-38)
Policy makers are able to … connection between theory and observation.)

**Understanding America’s role through different theories of grand strategy is necessary to effectively engage in both the policy decision-making process as well as affecting overall strategy.**
**Layne 07** – Professor, and Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service (Christopher “American Empire” C0-Written with Bradley A. Thayer, Chapter 2: The Case Against the American Empire 2007, p. 52-53)
The heart of the current … to confront these enduring questions.

**No offense, debate over IR theory is inevitable – it must be a prior question. The alternative is bad policymaking and implicit acceptance of flawed theories.**
**Chernoff, 2005** (Fred, “The Power of International Theory: Reforging the link to foreign policy-making through scientific enquiry,” p. 14, )
Policy-making, if it is … between the various competing theories.

**Improving political theories is the most effective way to foster effective policymaking – ignoring theory remedies none of their offense**
**FEAVER 2001** (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 172-173, )
The policy-theory gap, then, … richer the contribution to policy.13

**It’s a gateway issue – theory is critical to determine whether policy debate is necessary**
**FEAVER 2001** (Peter, Asst. Prof of Political Science at Duke University, Twenty-First Century Weapons Proliferation, p 180)
There is yet another way … Gelpi for suggesting this to me.

**Testing realism in specific instances allows us to utilize it as a research program to intellectually engage in the subject matter, its descriptive and predictive power are extremely useful.**
**Donnelley 3**- Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Graduate School of International Studies at the University of Denver (Jack, “Realism and International Relations” 2003 edition, first edition was in print in 2000. P. 75-77,)Anchor]
Consider Waltz’ account of the … general theory of international relations.

**Realism is an extremely valuable tool for understanding empirical events and conflict in the international sphere, it is not a question of whether or not it is ‘right’ but what specific understandings and insights does it show us.**
**Donnelley 03** - Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Graduate School of International Studies at the University of Denver (Jack, “Realism and International Relations” 2003 edition, first edition was in print in 2000. P. 196-198,)
The task of theory thus … that make up world politics.

**Refusing to theorize about war ensures flawed policymaking and error replication**
***WALT 91** (Stephen, Professor at the University of Chicago, International Studies Quarterly 35, p. 229)
A recurring theme of this … of war in the future.
==1AC Orientalism Adv - GDS== 
**The US essentialism of Iraqi culture and portrayal of an irrational Iraqi identity is the essence of a flawed orientalist mindset perpetuated by the military occupation occurring in the status quo. This makes failure of the US mission inevitable.**

**Brown 8**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">Associate Professor (Research): Watson Institute for International Studies (Keith, 12/8/08, “’All They Understand is Force’: Debating Culture in Operation Iraqi Freedom”, American Anthropologist, Vol. 110, Iss. 4; pg. 443, 11 pgs, MH)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;"> That said,</span>
__the U.S. military's attribution ….__
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">followers, marching sluggishly through the centuries</span>

**In order to justify the occupation politicians and media personalities misrepresent the Iraqi people as a threat and present the occupation as our burden to save a backwards race. That also sustains the current Orientalist ideology.**
**Said 3**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">professor at Colombia University (Edward, August 2003, “Orientalism 25 Years Later”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/books/2003/aug/02/alqaida.highereducation]] MH)</span>
__Orientalism is very__
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">much a book </span>
__tied to the tumultuous dynamics of contemporary history__
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">…, each its own reductive images, its own disputatious polemics. </span>

**Military presence allows the Eastern “enemy” to be demonized and false stereotypes to be disseminated. These demonstrations strip the Iraqis of their humanity and allow them to be eliminated.**

**Isakhan 7/10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Research Fellow, Centre for Dialogue, La Trobe University (Benjamin, July 2010, “Military orientalism and the occupation of Iraq”, International Journal of Contemporary Iraqi Studies- tri-yearly peer-reviewed journal, Volume 4, Issue 1&2, p.211-217, MH)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">It is now more than 30 years since the publication of Edward W. Said’s seminal text Orientalism. …</span>then they ought to be confronted with fervent militarism and uncompromising action.

**Acknowledgement of Orientalism existing in the United States military policy is the first step in developing more effective policies and digging this ideology out of politics.**

**Isakhan 7/10** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Research Fellow, Centre for Dialogue, La Trobe University (Benjamin, July 2010, “Military orientalism and the occupation of Iraq”, International Journal of Contemporary Iraqi Studies- tri-yearly peer-reviewed journal, Volume 4, Issue 1&2, p.211-217)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">While there are, no doubt, many contexts to …</span>relations between east and west.

**These stereotypes and assumptions enable and empirically result in genocide**
**Batur, 07**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">(Pinar, Associate Professor of Sociology, and Director of Urban Studies, Vassar College, 2007, “Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide”, Handbook of the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, ed. By Hernán Vera and Joe R. Feagin, 2007, http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:lkqKHAeQju0J:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=800000000000)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;"> At the turn of the 20th century, the “</span>
__Terrible Turk” …. The 21st century opened up with genocide, in Darfur.__

**And create interventionist foreign policy resulting in eternal war**
**Bilgin 05**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">Ph.D. International Politics, University of Wales, M.Sc. Econ. Strategic Studies, University of Wales, Master of International Relations, Bilkent University, B.Sc. International Relations, Middle East Technical University (Pinar, “Regional Security In The Middle East A Critical Perspective”, p.67-69)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">One of the …</span>

<span style="color: black; display: block;">of security they are rooted in.</span>
==1AC Decision Calc GDS== 
**Ignoring Orientalism in United States policymaking allows it to grow and perpetuate not only causing the aforementioned impacts but also resulting in policymaking error repilication.**
**Bilgin 04**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">- Ph.D. International Politics, University of Wales, M.Sc. Econ. Strategic Studies, University of Wales, Master of International Relations, Bilkent University, B.Sc. International Relations, Middle East Technical University (Pinar, assistant prof, IR, Bilkent U. PhD, IR, U Wales, Is the 'Orientalist' past the Future of Middle East Studies?, Third World Quarterly, Vol. 25, No. 2, 423-433, JSTOR)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">To go back to Little's argument about …</span>
__roots would do well to rethink the deeper impact this academic field has made over the years.__

**It’s time to move past Orientalism- doomsday scenarios are self-fulfilling prophesies**
**Jabri o6**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">Professor, Department of War Studies at King’s College London, 2006 (Vivienne, “War, Security and the Liberal State”, 2006, Security Dialogue, Vol. 37, No. 1, p. 52-55)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">The </span>
__practices of warfare taking …__
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">complex fashion in accordance with the development of the modern technologies of power that take life as their objective’.</span>
**The negative will try to convince you that preventing large-scale war should be the foremost concern in our decision calculus---this framing distorts ethics into a crisis-driven politics of war---distorting genuine ethics and creating a sphere where the constant threat of war becomes inevitable in order to sustain the militaristic nature of the status quo**
**Cuomo 96**,
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">Chris Cuomo. Ph.D., 1992, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati Hypatia Fall 1996.Vol.11, Iss. 4; pg. 30 </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 6pt;">In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," …</span>
**__or distort moral judgement__** __in the face of what appears to be the inevitability of war and militarism.__

==New 1AC Impact- St. Mark's== 
**Their ethnocentric understandings of the world guarantee endless warfare**
<span class="Underline">**Barger 08—** (Ken, Ethnocentrism, http://www.iupui.edu/~anthkb/ethnocen.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline"> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">To address the deeper issues involved ...</span> to be self-destructive <span style="font-size: 7pt;">for all concerned.</span></span>
==Heg (Ohio Valley)== 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maintaining the SOFA timetable is key to hegemony – multiple links:</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">First – overstretch.</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walt 9</span></span> - Stephen Walt, Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University, “Bush's gift to Obama,” 6/30/2009, http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/06/29/bushs_gift_to_obama?showcomments=yes
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Although often touted as a great …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">thus be yet another strategic misstep</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">.</span></span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Overstretch kills heg</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perry 6</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Professor of Management Science and Engineering at Stanford University and Former U.S. Secretary of Defense [William J., May 2006, “The U.S. Military: Under Strain and at Risk” National Security Magazine May Issue]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the end of World War II, </span><span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">… and respond to some contingencies.</span>__</span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second – Defense spending </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Francis 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Media Fellow at the World Economic Forum (Diane, <span style="color: black;">2008</span></span>**<span style="color: black;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">“Iraq pulls down U.S. economy”</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">http://www.nationalpost.com/opinion/columnists/story.html?id=999e7591-f0af-49f4-bb45-d550623b3001&k=14322</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> But</span> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the Iraq war is monstrously expensive</span> … being lowered or contributions raised.__

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Failure to halt spending will collapse the economy and heg</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Altman and Haas 11/1</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary and President of the Council on Foreign Relations (Roger and Richard, 11/1/10, “American Profligacy and American Power,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66778/roger-c-altman-and-richard-n-haass/american-profligacy-and-american-power) </span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The U.S.</span>__ __government <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">is </span>… and the coming era of international relations.__

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic collapse causes global nuclear war – It also erodes support for forward deployment</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg and Schoenfeld – 8</span></span> (Aaron, professor of politics and international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, visiting scholar at the Witherspoon Institute, “The Dangers of a Diminished America”,
http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)
<span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">With the</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> global <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">financial system </span>…</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as grave as the one we now face. </span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal solves</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Paul and Frank 7/6</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;"> R- Texas and D- Massachusetts/Chairman of Financial Services (Barney and Ron, 7/6/10 , “Why we must reduce military spending”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-barney-frank/why-we-must-reduce-milita_b_636051.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">By far the </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">single most </span>____…, even mediating electoral disputes.__

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third – US credibility</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jarrar and Leaver 3/4</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">a senior fellow on the Middle East at Peace Action and research fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies (Raed and Erik, 3/4/10, “Top US general miss-steps” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/LC04Ak02.html)</span>
__An <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Obama flip-flop on the timetable </span>..__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to take the war into their own hands. </span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Credibility is key to alliances, solve terrorism, and global power projection.</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Armitage and Nye 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Richard L., Deputy Secretary of State from 2001 to 2005 and Joseph S., former assistant secretary of defense, teaches political science at Harvard, they co-chaired the Center for Strategic and International Studies’ Commission on Smart Power, The Tennessean, “Time for Smart Power”, tennessean.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20071216/NEWS08/712160370/1025/NEWS)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The world is dissatisfied with </span>… We call this smart power__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independently, strong alliances make nuclear war impossible.</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ross 99 -</span></span> Douglas Ross, Professor of Political Science – Simon Fraser University, Winter 1998/<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1999</span></span>, International Journal, Vol. 54, No. 1, “Canada’s Functional Isolationism And The Future Of Weapons Of Mass Destruction”, Lexis
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thus, an easily accessible tax base …</span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> involving nuclear or other WMD</span>__**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">.</span>__

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, the plan is specifically key to preventing terrorism.</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bandow 7/1</span></span> senior fellow at Cato (Doug, 7/1/10, “Terrorism: Why They Want to Kill Us”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/terrorism-why-they-want-t_b_631942.html</span>) 
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The horrid attacks of 9/11 led to the cry: </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Why do they …, but are trying to kill us.</span></span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Winning the hearts and minds of the world is key to the war on terror.</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gordon 7</span></span> - Philip Gordon, senior fellow for U.S. Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, November-December, 2007, Can the War on Terror Be Won? Foreign Affairs, p. lexis
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is essential to start thinking …will bring such a victory about. </span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if technical barriers exist, recruitment overcomes them.</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graham and Talent 8</span></span> - Bob Graham, chairman of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism, and Jim Talent, vice-chairman of the Commission on the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism, December 2008, World at Risk, Garham Allison, Robin Cleveland, Steve Rademaker, Tim Roemer, Wendy Sherman, Henry Sokolski, Rich Verma, p. 20
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the .. of nuclear weapons designs. </span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, nuclear acquisition is inevitable – the result is global nuclear war.</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speice 6</span></span> - Patrick Speice, JD Candidate, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February 2006, Lexis
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Terrorist groups could </span>____…__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> States and escalate to the use of nuclear weapons.</span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal solves</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wehrey 5/24</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Fredrick, Senior Policy Analyst at RAND (Dassa Kaye, Dalia, Associate Director, RAND Center for Middle East Public Policy. Watkins, Jessica. Martini, Jefferey, Guffey, Robert. The Iraq Effect, The Middle East After the Iraq War, RAND, pg 50-55, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/MG892)</span>
<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Regional <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">concerns related to </span>..</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in a better situation [than prior to the war in Iraq]” (‘Aloush, 2007). </span>
[[#_Toc278829856]]

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hegemony deters conflicts and solves escalation – collapse is the only scenario for nuclear war</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan 7 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History” Policy Review, [[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]]</span>
<span class="Style1CharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">This is a good thing, and it should continue ...</span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> global involvement will provide an easier path.</span>


<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">No one will fill in for the US- withdrawal from hegemony results in wars</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brzezinski, 5</span></span> <span class="citenon-boldChar">- </span>National Security Advisor in the Carter Administration, Professor of Foreign Policy @ Johns Hopkins University
(Zbigniew "The Choice")
<span class="underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 11pt;">History</span></span> __is a record of change…__<span class="Heading4Char">__<span style="font-size: 14pt; font-weight: normal;"> either from the repudiation of power by the American democracy itself, or from America's global misuse of its own power</span>__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">. </span></span>
==Instability (Ohio Valley)== 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is government stability - </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The newly formed Iraqi government is very fragile- rival faction battles</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ditz 11/21</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> managing news editor at Antiwar (Jason, 11/21/10, “Iraqi Parliament Delays Govt Formation Again” <span style="color: black;">http://news.antiwar.com/2010/11/21/iraqi-parliament-delays-govt-formation-again/</span>) MH</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Another</span>__ __brief <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">meeting of Iraq’s </span>… and formation__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Failure to withdraw on time will sidetrack the government further</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Khaleej Times 5/6</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">UAE English newspaper(5/6/10“Iraq’s Coalition Dilemma”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.khaleejtimes.com/DisplayArticle08.asp?xfile=data/editorial/2010/May/editorial_May11.xml§ion=editorial</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Although </span>__there is …, rather than pursuing a self-serving agenda.__

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">That increases the risk of instability</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hanna 4/4</span></span><span class="Underline"> <span style="font-size: 7pt;"> fellow and program officer at The Century Foundation [Michael, 4/4/10, “When Should the United States Leave Iraq?” <span style="color: black;">http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66188/michael-wahid-hanna/stay-the-course-of-withdrawal</span>)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">Taking an overly pessimistic … out by the residual U.S. troops envisioned. </span></span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weakening the already fragile coalition process creates violent insurgency and general instability</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC 6/25</span></span><span class="Heading2Char"> <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">(6/25/</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">10, “Glittering gathering reflects Iraq's election crisis”, <span style="color: black;">http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/8760966.stm</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At a glittering reception at …e blowing themselves up.</span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">This instability would trigger an Iraqi civil war that draws in the entire region </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fahim 5</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Ashraf, 8/20/5, “Iraq at the gates of hell,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/GH20Ak01.html</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Given all this grist, </span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">how might</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the …</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (where all the oil is).</span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">This spills over to the rest of the Middle East</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Byman and Pollack 6</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">director of Georgetown University's Center for Peace and Security Studies and research director at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution (Daniel and Kenneth, “What Next?,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/08/18/AR2006081800983.html</span>)</span>
<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">The consequences of an all-out civil </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">…</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> helped spark civil war in Syria in 1976-82. </span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Those conflicts culminate in a global nuclear war</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Steinbach 2</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;"> DC Iraq Coalition (John, March 02, “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: A Threat to Peace”, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/03/00_steinbach_israeli-wmd.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, </span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; font-size: 12pt;">the .. could trigger a world conflagration</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." (44)</span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal solves political stability – it takes American influence out of the Iraqi government and allows it to re-stabilize</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schneller 4/29</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> International Affairs Fellow at Council on Foreign Relations (Rachel, 4/29/10</span><span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">,</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> “Iraq: A Compromise PM?”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.cfr.org/publication/22015/iraq.html</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> So here we are in 2010. </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">…. We don't need new surprises here. </span></span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Political stability spillovers to stop physical forms of instability</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Col. Reese 9</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Chief, Baghdad Operations Command Advisory Team, MND-B, Baghdad, Iraq (Timothy, 7/30/9, “Text of Colonel Reese’s Memo”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/07/31/world/middleeast/31advtext.html]], MH)</span>
__The general lack of progress …ccupation Iraq.__
==Democractic Legitimacy (Ohio Valley)== 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 4 is legitimate democracy -</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US presence is destroying the legitimacy of Iraqi democracy now</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beetham 9</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Professorship of Politics at the University of Leeds (David, ’09, “The Contradictions of Democratization by Force: the Case of Iraq', 16: 3, 443 — 454 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13510340902914338)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The logic of self-determination</span> <span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">If …</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> trappings of democratic self-determination.</span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Iraq is a test case for democracy- if it joins the list of already democratic states in the region, other countries will bandwagon</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Davis-Hanson 5</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">PhD in classics from Stanford (Victor, 2/11/05, “Why Democracy? Ten reasons to support democracy in the Middle East”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.papillonsartpalace.com/wdhy.htm</span>) MH</span>
__Neoconservatives hope that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">a democratic </span>…__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and Saddam's clan either dead or in chains. </span>

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">It prevents nuclear conflict</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Larry </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diamond 95</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Hoover Institution, Stanford University, December, PROMOTING DEMOCRACY IN THE 1990S, 1995, p. http://www.carnegie.orgsub/pubs/deadly/diam_rpt.html</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Nuclear</span>____, chemical and biological … to protest the destruction of their environments.__
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Withdrawal solves - allows legitimate Iraqi policymakers to enter the government and creates organic democracy</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ad Ali 7</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">advised on constitutional, parliamentary and judicial reform in Iraq (Zaid, 1/19/7 “The United States in Iraq: The Complete Case for Withdrawal”, http://www.opendemocracy.net/conflict-iraq/withdrawal_4264.jsp)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">The explosion at Mustansiriyah …and what they need is to be free once and for all.</span>

==Instability (Reworked for Emory)== 
**The US will remain beyond the deadline. Anything less than the plan will cause al-Sadr to fracture the Iraqi government.**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">AP 1/19</span>** (“Return of cleric complicates ’11 Iraq withdrawal strategy,” [[@http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/jan/19/return-of-cleric-complicates-us-11-iraq-withdrawal/?page=1]]) DW</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Iraqi politicians face __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the</span>__ contentious …__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> years of warfare and</span>__ __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">[[@http://www.washingtontimes.com/topics/united-states-of-america/|U.S.]]</span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;"> occupation</span>____.__</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Al-Sadr’s support for the government is pivotal – any attempt at keeping US troops will fracture the government and spark civil war.</span>**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="color: black;">The Guardian, 1/11</span>** <span style="color: black;">(“What Moqtada al-Sadr’s return means for America,” [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2011/jan/11/iraq-iran]]) DW</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">When Moqtada al-Sadr left Iraq in …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> that events in Iraq occur to their liking.</span>__

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Weakening the already fragile coalition process creates violent insurgency and general instability**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**BBC 6/25**</span><span class="heading002020020char002cheading002020020char0020char0020char0020char0020char0020char0020char002cheading0020210020char002cchar0020char0020char0020char10020char1002cchar0020char0020char0020char10020chachar"> (6/25/</span><span class="normalchar">10, “Glittering gathering reflects Iraq's election crisis”, http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/8760966.stm)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">At a glittering reception at the …before blowing themselves up.</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**This instability would trigger an Iraqi civil war** </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Fahim 5**</span><span class="normalchar"> (Ashraf, 8/20/5, “Iraq at the gates of hell,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Middle_East/GH20Ak01.html)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">Given all this grist, </span><span class="cards0020002b0020font002012ptchar">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">how might</span>__ __…__</span><span class="normalchar">part of the country (where all the oil is).</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**This spills over to the rest of the Middle East**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Byman and Pollack 6**</span><span class="normalchar"> director of Georgetown University's Center for Peace and Security Studies and research director at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution (Daniel and Kenneth, “What Next?,” http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2006/08/18/AR2006081800983.html)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="cards0020002b0020font002012ptchar">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The consequences of an all-out …</span>__</span><span class="normalchar"> civil war in Syria in 1976-82. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Those conflicts culminate in a global nuclear war**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Steinbach 2**</span><span class="normalchar"> DC Iraq Coalition (John, March 02, “Israeli Weapons of Mass Destruction: A Threat to Peace”, http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2002/03/00_steinbach_israeli-wmd.htm)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">Meanwhile, </span><span class="cards0020002b0020font002012ptchar">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">the existence … could trigger a world conflagration</span>__</span><span class="normalchar">." (44)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Withdrawal solves political stability – it takes American influence out of the Iraqi government and allows it to re-stabilize**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Schneller 4/29**</span><span class="normalchar"> International Affairs Fellow at Council on Foreign Relations (Rachel, 4/29/10</span><span class="heading002020020char002cheading002020020char0020char0020char0020char0020char0020char0020char002cheading0020210020char002cchar0020char0020char0020char10020char1002cchar0020char0020char0020char10020chachar">,</span><span class="normalchar"> “Iraq: A Compromise PM?”, http://www.cfr.org/publication/22015/iraq.html)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">So here we are in 2010. </span><span class="underlinechar">__Is … We don't need new surprises here.__ </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Political stability spills over to stop physical forms of instability**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Col. Reese 9**</span><span class="normalchar"> Chief, Baghdad Operations Command Advisory Team, MND-B, Baghdad, Iraq (Timothy, 7/30/9, “Text of Colonel Reese’s Memo”, </span><span class="hyperlinkchar">[[@https://mail.prep-villa.com/owa/redir.aspx?C=3e3ee98735d34bada320d76b7f0bec61&URL=http%3a%2f%2fwww.nytimes.com%2f2009%2f07%2f31%2fworld%2fmiddleeast%2f31advtext.html|http://www.nytimes.com/2009/07/31/world/middleeast/31advtext.html]]</span><span class="normalchar">, MH)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">__The general lack of … for power in post-occupation Iraq.__ </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**US presence is destroying the legitimacy of Iraqi democracy now**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**Beetham 9**</span><span class="normalchar"> Professorship of Politics at the University of Leeds (David, ’09, “The Contradictions of Democratization by Force: the Case of Iraq', 16: 3, 443 — 454 http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13510340902914338)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">The logic of self-determination</span><span class="cards0020002b0020font002012ptchar">__If <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">…</span>__</span><span class="normalchar">s of democratic self-determination.</span></span>

<span class="author002ddatechar">**Iraq is a test case for democracy- if it joins the list of already democratic states in the region, other countries will bandwagon**</span>
<span class="author002ddatechar">**Davis-Hanson 5**</span><span class="normalchar"> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">PhD in classics from Stanford (Victor, 2/11/05, “Why Democracy? Ten reasons to support democracy in the Middle East”, http://www.papillonsartpalace.com/wdhy.htm) MH</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">__Neoconservatives hope that <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">a democratic …</span>__ Saddam's clan either dead or in chains. </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">**It prevents nuclear conflict**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">Larry </span><span class="author002ddatechar">**Diamond 95**</span><span class="normalchar">, Hoover Institution, Stanford University, December, PROMOTING DEMOCRACY IN THE 1990S, 1995, p. http://www.carnegie.org</span></span>sub/pubs/deadly/diam_rpt.html
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Nuclear</span>____, chemical and biological <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">…</span> organize to protest the destruction of their environments.__ </span></span>
<span class="author002ddatechar">**Withdrawal solves - allows legitimate Iraqi policymakers to enter the government and creates organic democracy**</span>
<span class="author002ddatechar">**Ad Ali 7**</span><span class="normalchar"> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">advised on constitutional, parliamentary and judicial reform in Iraq (Zaid, 1/19/7 “The United States in Iraq: The Complete Case for Withdrawal”, http://www.opendemocracy.net/conflict-iraq/withdrawal_4264.jsp)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="normalchar">The explosion at Mustansiriyah University …</span><span class="debate0020underlinechar"> __themselves__</span><span class="normalchar"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, by themselves. What they want and</span></span></span>
==Heg- Card added for Pennsbury== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**The world is on the brink of a nuclear 9/11. Terrorists are already making efforts to get a nuclear bomb- it’s only a matter of time before they acquire and deploy a dirty bomb**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**Blake and Hope 2/2** breaking news reporters for the Telegraph (Heidi and Christopher, “WikiLeaks: al-Qaeda 'is planning a dirty bomb'”, [[http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/wikileaks/8296956/WikiLeaks-al-Qaeda-is-planning-a-dirty-bomb.html]]) MH</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="author002ddatechar">__A leading atomic regulator has …__</span> potential to cause "extraordinary loss of life". </span>

==Politics Link Turns== 
===McCain=== 
**McCain supports immediate withdrawal**
**Levi 9**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">staff writer for CBS news (Michelle, 10/25/9, “McCain: Iraq Bombs Needn't Slow Withdrawal”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2009/10/25/ftn/main5419571.shtml</span>, MH)</span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 80%;">McCain key to the agendaNYT 8 (New York Times, 11/8/2008, http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/09/washington/09hill.html)</span>

**McCain is key–studies rank him as the single most-influential person on Capitol Hill.**
U.S. Newswire 6
(May 16, 2006 – lexis)

===General=== 
**New withdrawal plan means bipart support**
**Schake 10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – research fellow at the Hoover Institution and an associate professor of international security studies at the United States Military (Kori, June 23, “Iraq still needs helping hands, and ours are now tied”, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/Iraq_Withdrawal)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">So to say that Obama's plan is …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> yesterday the same plan of two years ago</span>.__

**Iraq withdrawal is popular-overwhelming support from both sides**
**Sargent 9**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – editor of Election Central (Greg, 30 6, Poll: Three Quarters Of Republicans Back Withdrawal From Iraq’s Cities, http://theplumline.whorunsgov.com/president-obama/poll-three-quarters-of-republicans-favor-obamas-iraq-withdrawal-plan/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Anyone else catch this stunning number …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">, and three-fourths of Republicans back it.</span>__

===Snowe/Collins=== 
**Snowe supports quick withdrawal**
**AP 7**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">(6/12/07, “Another GOP Defection on Iraq”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.military.com/NewsContent/0,13319,142015,00.html</span>, MH)</span>

**and Collins hates the war**
**Jackson and Wolf 7**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">writers for USA Today (David and Richard, 1/23/7, “More Republicans oppose Iraq troop increase”, <span style="color: black;">http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2007-01-22-gop-iraq_x.htm</span>, MH)</span>

**We only have to win one to get the link turn**
<span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">**The Hill,** 8/18/</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span> (“Liberals press Senate Dems to move without Grassley”, MH)

**They’re key to the agenda**
**News Daily 8**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt;">(11/8/08, “Snowe, Collins key players across Senate aisle”, http://www.bangordailynews.com/detail/92899.html) </span>

==Essentialism Turn/Bad Scholarship== 
**Said didn't essentialize**
**Prakash 95**, Dayton Stockton Prof of history at Princeton University, PhD in history from Pennsylvania University (Gyan, OCtober 1995, "Orientalism Now" History and Theory, Vol 34, No. 3, p. 199-212, JSTOR, MH)

**Examples of essentialism are fabricated**
**Huggan 5** BA, Cambridge, MA, PHD, British Columbia, Proffessor at Leeds University (Grahm, Autumn 2005, "(NOT) Reading "Orientalism", Vol 36, No.3, pp. 124-136, JSTOR)

==2ac Heg K== 
**US Hegemony is critical to global imperialism**
**Foster 3**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (John, editor of Monthly review, The New Age of Imperialism, 55 (3), https://www.monthlyreview.org/0703jbf.htm)pl</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Imperialism is meant to serve the needs....we hope not the world's--></span>

**US imperialism makes global conflicts inevitable- proves heg is ineffective**
**McNally 6**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (David, Professor of political sceince at York University "The new imperialists-Idealogies of Empire" Ch 5 Pg 103)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This, then, is the end point.....accomplice of madness and horror.</span>
==2ac- Heg Internal Link Add-On== 
<span class="Underline">**Troops in Iraq are straining US-Israel Relations**</span>
<span class="writer">**Haselkorn 4/9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">strategic analyst, author of "The Continuing Storm: Iraq, Poisonous Weapons and Deterrence"</span>
<span class="writer"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Avigdor, 2010, Relations of mutual liability, Haaretz.com, http://www.haaretz.com/print-edition/opinion/relations-of-mutual-liability-1.733)</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">The deployment of military forces abroad …</span> strained its ties with its foremost friend<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span></span>

<span class="Underline">**Relations are already strained enough due to the Egypt escapade**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pfaff 2/1** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert Schuman Memorial lecturer, the University of Maastricht, the Netherlands (William, “American-Israeli Policy Tested by Arab Uprisings”, [[http://www.truthdig.com/report/item/american-israeli_policy_tested_by_arab_uprisings_20110201/]]) MH</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The Israeli calculation …what you need.” Israelis take notice.</span> </span>


**And relations maintain United States hegemony**
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zunes 2</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Stephen, Middle East Editor at Foreign Policy in Focus, http://www.fpif.org/articles/why_the_us_supports_israel) </span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">There is a</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> broad bipartisan </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-weight: normal;">consensus …</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> for new jet fighters and anti-missile defense systems.</span>

==2ac- Debt Commission CP== 
**1. No solvency and links to politics- the committee can only advise, and Obama can direct the committee**
**Fiscal Commission.gov NO DATE** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“By-Laws and Operating Procedures”, http://www.fiscalcommission.gov/bylaws)</span>
__By-Laws and Operating Procedures__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ..than 14 of the 18 members of the Commission. </span>

**2. Links to politics- Obama created the Commission**
**White House Press 2/18** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(2/18/10, “ President Obama Establishes Bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform”, http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/president-obama-establishes-bipartisan-national-commission-fiscal-responsibility-an)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">WASHINGTON – Today, President </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">...</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">s people deserve and America’s future demands.” </span>

==2ac- Ashley Permutation== 
**The binary opposition the negative sets up guts the alts solvency**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ashley, 88</span></span>** Associate Professor of Political Science @ Arizona State University (Richard, “Untying the Sovereign State: A Double Reading of the Anarchy Problematique,” Millenium, Summer, p. 227-262) 
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">The monological reading of</span> … on global collaboration <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">must conform</span>.__

=Negative= 
=Counterplans= 
==Prefecture PIC v. GDS Octas Wake== 

Text: The United States federal government should withdraw its military presence from Okinawa.

"Prefecture" bad
Yonetani 2000 (Julia, Australian National University, "Ambiguous Traces and the Politics of Sameness: Placing Okinawa in Meiji Japan", Japanese Studies, Vol. 20, No. 1, Weston)
On 27 March 1879,......almost always considered 'outside'.3

Turns case
Christy 1993 (Alan, Associate Professor of History @ US Santa Cruz, "The Making of Imperial Subjects in Okinawa", Positions, Vol. 1, No. 3, P. 607-639, Weston)
Although the use of....within unequal relations of power.

Root cause of violence
Christy 1993 (Alan, Associate Professor of History @ US Santa Cruz, "The Making of Imperial Subjects in Okinawa", Positions, Vol. 1, No. 3, P. 607-639, Weston)
To argue, as I have....of the monolithic State.

=Kritiks= 
==Orientalism== 
===1NC=== 
**The 1AC depicts the East as somehow different from them. These affirmations of Orientalist concepts are a root cause of war**
**Batur, 07**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Pinar, Associate Professor of Sociology, and Director of Urban Studies, Vassar College, 2007, “Heart of Violence: Global Racism, War, and Genocide”, Handbook of the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations, ed. By Hernán Vera and Joe R. Feagin, 2007, http://74.125.155.132/scholar?q=cache:lkqKHAeQju0J:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=800000000000)</span>
[[#_GoBack]]<span style="font-size: 7pt;">At the turn of the … </span>__up with genocide, in Darfur.__

**The impact outweighs and turns the case – Orientalist understandings of the world guarantee extinction**
**Bilgin 05**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Assistant Prof of International Relations at Bilkent University, “REGIONAL SECURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST A CRITICAL PERSPECTIVE”, PAGE 164-165</span>
[[#_GoBack]]<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Thinking about the future from a … </span>__<span style="color: black;">insecurity in the Middle East.</span>__

**Reject the affirmatives Orientalist worldview – the alternative can escape the trap of imperialistic problem solving and still have a practical influence—investigating their epistemological claims is key to better understanding the political.**
**Bilgin 04**—<span style="font-size: 7pt;">assistant prof, IR, Bilkent U. PhD, IR, U Wales (Pinar, Is the 'Orientalist' past the Future of Middle East Studies?, Third World Quarterly, Vol. 25, No. 2, 423-433, JSTOR)</span>
[[#_GoBack]]<span style="font-size: 6pt;">To go back to Little's … to do in his lifetime.52</span>


===2NC Terrorism Link=== 
**Focusing on a response to terrorism is self-defeating—only critical investigation of underlying motives can alleviate violence.**
**Juergensmeyer**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mark, Director, Orfalea Center for Global & International Studies and Professor, Global & International Studies; Sociology; and Religious Studies at UCSB, “Gandhi vs. terrorism”, Winter 2007, Daedalus vol 136 No. 1, p. 30-39)</span>
__Responding to terrorism after the fact__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, ...what they regarded as a part of Britain.</span>

==Commodification K- against Beacon and Centennial== 
**Your revolution is no different than any other- corporations will commodify your hip hop revolution to spoon-feed capitalism in a cool way**
**Frank 97** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">PhD in History from University of Chicago, Cultural Historian (Thomas, 1997, __The Conquest of Cool: Business Culture and the Rise of Hip Consumerism__,)</span>
__As the discovery of rule-breaking … generations of mufflers or toothpaste or footwear.__

**That prevents the potential for any true change and sustains the current capitalist system**
**Meijer 98** <span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Professor of Journalism at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Lector Media & Civil Society at Hogeschool Windesheim (Irene; Media, Culture and Society, volume 20, no.2)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">That basic opposition …</span> __immune to the performing qualities of the industry.__

**The methodology of the capitalist system creates prisons of oppression that deny value to life and make the actions like “final solutions” possible – only through the complete rejection of this mode of thought is liberation possible**
**Deleuze and Guattari, ’72** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Gilles Deleuze AND Felix Guattari, professor of philosophy at the University of Paris and schizoanalyst, worked at La Borde. Anti-Oedipus 1972 pg 373)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">"</span>__There is not one__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of these aspects…: </span>__the factories are prisons, they do not resemble prisons, they are prisons.__

**<span style="color: black;">The alternative is to reject reformism in favor of communal relations of solidarity outside the state to shelter the oppressed from global capitalism.</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">The only way to destroy capitalism is “an inside attack” which necessitates total rejection of all capitalist relations. This ensures we destroy the system at its source and do not merely reform it in the short term</span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Herod, Columbia </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">graduate and political activist,</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> 07</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">(James Herod, “Getting Free: Creating an Association of Democratic Autonomous Neighborhoods,” Boston, 2007, http://www.jamesherod.info/?sec=book&id=1)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">It is time to try to describe, at first abstractly … and that is the way we should approach it.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Our schema – You should view the world as if the anti- capitalist revolution has already occurred. The sad fact is we have been trained to think like capitalists, meaning we have an inherent bias towards pro-capitalist ideology. That’s why past revoltuions have failed; focus on past, present, and future sustain and reproduce the harms outlined above.</span>**
<span style="margin-bottom: 16.2pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Zizek, 04</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> (Slavoj, Revolution at the gates, pg 260)</span></span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 16.2pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> As Deleuze saw very clearly,</span>__<span style="color: black;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">we cannot provide …an immediate index of its own truth</span>. </span>__</span>

==<span style="color: black; margin-bottom: 16.2pt;">Inherency- Counter Narcotics</span>== 
**<span class="cite">Not Inherent – Obama is already scrapping the program</span>**
**<span class="cite">Youngers 10</span>** (Coletta, AlterNet, May 11 2010, http://www.alternet.org/drugs/146823/is_obama_serious_about_ending_the_war_on_drugs?page=1)
In March 2009, U.S. Special Envoy Richard <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">…</span></span> Afghanistan for several years."

**<span class="cite">Obama can’t continue the policy much longer – losing key support</span>**
**<span class="cite">Washington Post 10</span>** (June 10 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/behind-the-numbers/2010/06/public_remains_unfriendly_on_a.html)
Today's news that <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">the U.S. …</span></span> (33 percent) who think America is winning.

**<span class="cite">Not inherent – Obama has already abandoned the eradication policy </span>**
**<span class="cite">Drug War Chronicle 10</span>** (May 11 2010, http://stopthedrugwar.org/chronicle/5920/afghanistan_US_stops_opium_poppy_eradication)
<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Thousands of US …</span></span> environmental consequences in Colombia