[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: center;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 15pt;">Observation 1: The Way the World Is… </span>__</span>**</span>== 
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">First of all, life in North Korea is very, very bad… </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Tom Head, </span>**accessed 9/27/**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">10</span>**, “Human Rights in North Korea - North Korean <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Human Rights Abuses” http://civilliberty.about.com/od/international humanrights/p/northkorea101.htm</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 4pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">After World War II, Japanese-occupied Korea was divided in two: North Korea, a newly Communist government under the supervision of the Soviet Union, and South Korea, under the supervision of the United States. The North Korean Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) was granted independence in 1948, and is now</span> one of the few remaining Communist nations. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The population of North Korea is approximately 23 million__</span>**, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">with an estimated annual per capita income of about US$1,700. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">The State of Human Rights in North Korea: </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__North Korea is__</span>** in all likelihood **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the most oppressive regime on Earth__</span>**__.__ Although <span style="font-size: 9pt;">human </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">rights monitors are generally banned from the country, as are radio communications between citizens and outsiders, some journalists and human rights monitors have been </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">successful in uncovering details about the secretive government's policies. The government is essentially a dictatorship--previously operated by Kim Il Sung, and now operated by his son, Kim Jong-il. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Cult of the Supreme Leader: </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although North Korea is generally described as a Communist government, it would also be accurate to call it a theocracy. The North Korean government operates 450,000 "Revolutionary Research Centers" for weekly indoctrination sessions, where attendees are taught that Kim Jong-il, who must be referred to as "Dear Leader," possesses supreme supernatural powers and had a miraculous birth atop a legendary Korean mountain (Jong-il was actually born in the former Soviet Union). </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Loyalty Groups:  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The North Korean government divides its citizens into three castes based on their perceived loyalty to the Dear Leader: "core" (haeksim kyechung), "wavering" (tongyo kyechung), and "hostile" (joktae kyechung). Most of the wealth is concentrated among the "core," while the "hostile"--a category that includes all members of minority faiths, as well as descendants of perceived enemies of the state--are denied employment and subject to starvation. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Enforcing Patriotism: </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The__</span>** North Korean government enforces loyalty and obedience through its **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Ministry of People's Security__</span>**, which **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__requires citizens to spy on each another, including family members. Anyone who is overheard saying anything perceived as critical to the government is subject to__ </span>**a reduced loyalty group rating, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__torture, execution, or imprisonment in one of North Korea's ten brutal concentration camps.__ </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Controlling the Flow of Information:</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__All radio and television stations, newspapers and magazines, and church sermons are government-controlled and focus on praise of the Dear Leader. Anyone who makes contact with foreigners in any way, or listens to foreign radio stations__</span>** (some of which are accessible in North Korea), **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__is in danger of any of the penalties described above. Traveling outside of North Korea is also forbidden, and can carry a penalty of death.__ </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">A </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Military State: </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite its small population and dismal budget, the North Korean government is heavily militarized--claiming to have an army of 1.3 million soldiers (the fifth-largest in the world), and a thriving military research program that includes the development of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles. North Korea also maintains rows of massive artillery batteries on the North-South Korea border, designed to inflict heavy casualties on Seoul in the event of international conflict. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mass Famine and Global Blackmail: </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__During the 1990s, as many as 3.5 million North Koreans died of starvation.__</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sanctions are not imposed on North Korea primarily because they would block grain donations, resulting in the deaths of millions more, a possibility that does not appear to concern the Dear Leader.</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Malnutrition is almost universal__ except among the ruling class; __the average North Korean 7-year-old is eight inches shorter than the average South Korean child of the same age.__ </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">No Rule of Law: </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The North Korean government maintains ten concentration camps, with a total of between 200,000 and 250,000 prisoners contained therein. Conditions in the camps are terrible, and the annual casualty rate has been estimated as high as 25%. The North Korean government has no due process system, imprisoning, torturing, and executing prisoners at will</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Public executions, in particular, are a common sight in North Korea.__ </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">And, the USA maintains troop almost 30,000 troops in South Korea, despite rising tensions  </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The China Post, 7/28/10,</span>** Eric Talmadge, AP,”U.S., South Korean troops drop anti-sub bombs in drills,” http://www.chinapost.com.tw/asia/korea/2010/07/28/266313/US-South.htm </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">ABOARD THE USS CURTIS WILBUR -- **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__U.S. and South Korean naval ships__</span>** fired artillery and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__dropped anti-submarine bombs off South Korea's east coast__</span>** Tuesday, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the third day of high-profile military maneuvers intended to warn nuclear-armed North Korea against further aggression.__ </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The dramatic show of force comes four months after a South Korean warship sank in the waters off the Koreas' west coast, killing 46 sailors. An international team of investigators determined that a North Korean submarine fired a torpedo that sank the ship in what Seoul called the worst military attack on it since the 1950-53 Korean War.__ </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">So far, there was no sign North Korea was preparing the military response it had threatened before the drills -- which the communist labeled provocation -- began Sunday, military officials said.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The Korean peninsula technically remains in a state of war because the conflict ended in a truce, not a peace treaty.__</span>** On Tuesday, both Koreas and the U.S. marked the 57th anniversary of the signing of the armistice against the backdrop of the military drills.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"Since our nation's founding, the United States has relied on our armed forces to ensure our safety and security at home, and to protect lives and liberties around the globe," President Barack Obama said in a statement marking the anniversary. "I call upon all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that honor our distinguished Korean War veterans."</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In the North's capital, Pyongyang, soldiers and citizens marked the anniversary by laying bouquets at the foot of the Korean War memorial, footage from TV news agency APTN showed.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">North Korea, which denies any role in the sinking of the Cheonan, has strongly protested the exercises. In flourishes of rhetoric typical of the regime, the regime has vowed a "nuclear" response in recent days.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"This is an impure attempt to stifle (North Korea) by means of armed force," North Korean army officer Hong Sung Chol told APTN in Pyongyang. "If the U.S. imperialists ignite war again, our army and people will totally uproot the source of the war under the leadership of our brilliant commander, Gen. Kim Jong Il."</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The regime has also pressed its demand for a full peace treaty.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"Military tension and the danger of war on the Korean peninsula would not be addressed for good unless the U.S. abandons its hostile policy (against the North) and replaces the armistice with a peace treaty," the government-run Minju Joson newspaper said in commentary carried by the official Korean Central News Agency.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__North Korea wants to establish diplomatic relations with Washington to guarantee that the U.S., which has 28,500 troops in South Korea, won't invade and topple Kim Jong Il's dynastic communist government. Pyongyang cites the presence of U.S. troops on South Korean soil as a key reason for building up its atomic weapons program.__ </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The U.S. repeatedly has said it has no intention of attacking the North, but sought to show with the military drills that its solidarity with South Korea remains as strong as ever.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">President Obama has said that “if countries… will unclench their fist, they will find an extended hand from us…”  </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">But, with almost 30,000 American troops across the border in South Korea, the North will never unclench their fist.  </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Thus, we offer the following plan: </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The United States federal government should significantly reduce its military presence in South Korea by removing all its troops and closing all its bases. Enforcement is guaranteed. Plan passage is through normal means.
</span>**</span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: center;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 15pt;">Advantage 1: Proliferation </span>__</span>**</span>== 
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The US presence in Korea drives the North’s nuclear program forward, risking a worldwide domino effect Global Security Newswire, 9/9/10</span>**, “North Korean Nukes Risk Global "Domino Effect," South Says,” <span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/siteservices/print_friendly.php?ID=%20nw_20100909_1142|http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/siteservices/print_friendly.php?ID= nw_20100909_1142]]</span> </span>== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__North Korea's continued development of nuclear weapons is likely to touch off a worldwide "domino effect,"__</span>** a senior South Korean official warned today (see <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100908_8758.php|GSN]]</span>, Sept. 8). "[Pyongyang's] nuclear program is only pushing the North closer to a crisis," Unification Minister Hyun In-taek said. He added that the Stalinist state's aspirations to become a nuclear power had "aggravated regime instability," Agence France-Presse reported. Meanwhile, the commander of U.S. forces in South Korea, Gen. Walter Sharp, said the March sinking of a South Korean warship in the Yellow Sea demonstrates that North Korea would concentrate on "asymmetric warfare" in any future hostile behavior. "We take the threat very seriously, what they will do in the future," Sharp said. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__As allied U.S.-South Korean forces greatly outmatch North Korea's conventional military abilities, Pyongyang is "putting more money" into__</span>** smaller elite forces, missile programs and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__nuclear weapons__</span>**, Sharp said in a Yonhap News Agency report. The general said last month's yearly South Korean-U.S. war games included drills on bringing stability back to North Korea after a destabilizing event (Agence France-Presse I/<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20100909/wl_asia_afp/nkoreaskoreausnuclearweaponsmilitary_20100909062858|Yahoo!News]]</span>, Sept. 9).</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And, proliferation leads to nuclear war** </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Schoff 2009**. Robert <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Pfaltzgraff</span></span>, Professor of International Security Studies at The Fletcher School @ Tufts, <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">and</span></span> James <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Schoff</span></span>, the Associate Director of Asia-Pacific Studies at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (IFPA), Feburary <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2009</span></span>, “Updating U.S. Deterrence Concepts and Operational Planning,” IFPA White Paper, online</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moreover, as suggested above, <span class="underline">**__as more nations seek or attain nuclear status, we may very well be entering an era in which nuclear “non-use” is ending__**</span>. This means that <span class="underline">**__the risk of deterrence failures is growing__**</span>, and with it questions about the ability of the United States to control the escalation chain in a crisis situation. During the Cold War, <span class="underline">**__escalation dominance was presumed to lie with the United States__**</span>, or at least that it could be managed in the U.S.-Soviet context <span class="underline">**__because the stakes of escalation were such that both states were putatively deterred__**</span> from nuclear weapons use (against the other). Today, however, <span class="underline">**__the same may not be true with respect to North Korea and Iran__**</span>, let alone in the context of a <span class="underline">**__Taiwan__**</span> contingency, or with respect to <span class="underline">**__India and Pakistan__**</span> in a crisis over Kashmir. <span class="underline">**__Deterrence failures in the regional context may result from an accident, a deliberate calculation, or the intervention of a third party__**</span> (e.g., Israel or Taiwan) <span class="underline">**__in a crisis contingency__**</span>. However, regardless of their origins, <span class="underline">**__the consequences might very well be an escalatory exchange that ultimately draws the United States into a regional nuclear conflict.__** </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Advantage 2: Armed Conflict on the Korean Peninsula__ </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Relations on the Korean Peninsula are spiraling out of control – nuclear war could literally break out any day ABC News, 9/23/10</span>**, “Russia warns of conflict between North, South Korea, <span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://www.abc.net.au/news/stories/2010/09/23/3019418.htm?section=justin]]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">Russia warned on Wednesday that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__"conflict" could break out any day between North and South Korea__</span>**, saying tension between the two countries was at its worst in a decade. The unusually stark words by Russian deputy foreign minister Alexei Borodavkin come two months after **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the North said it would wage a "sacred war" against the United States and its ally, South Korea.__ </span>** Washington replied that it would not enter a "war of words" with the North. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__"The political tension on the Korean Peninsula has reached an extreme level, after which there can be only conflict,"__</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the state-run ITAR-TASS news agency quoted Mr Borodavkin as saying. He said Russia's most important foreign policy task in the region is to ensure conflict does not break out, adding: "It must be noted that responsibility for the situation in the region lies on both North and South Korea." </span> Though Russia and North Korea were allies in Soviet times, when Russia was a communist state, the North's only major ally today is neighbouring China. Mr Borodavkin did not specify what kind of conflict could break out, but said **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the North's nuclear potential pose<s> a security threat to Seoul as well as to other countries__</span>** in the region. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mr Borodavkin cited the North's 2009 nuclear tests and the South's joint large-scale military exercises with the United States in July, as reasons to back up his fears. Tension on the divided peninsula rose after Washington and Seoul concluded that North Korea was behind the March sinking of the South Korean corvette Cheonan, killing 46 sailors.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-margin-top-alt: auto;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">And, the nuclear war could be started on purpose or by accident AFP, 9/21/10</span>**, “N Korea blasts S Korea-US exercise as nuclear war rehearsal,” <span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[@http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/rest-of-world/N-Korea-blasts-S-Korea-US-exercise-as-nuclear-war-rehearsal/articleshow/6599959.cms]]</span> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/search?q=North%20Korea|North Korea]]</span> denounced <span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/search?q=South%20Korea|South Korea]]</span> and the United States today for planning anti-submarine drills in the Yellow Sea, describing them as a "<span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/search?q=nuclear%20war%20rehearsal|nuclear war rehearsal]]</span>".__</span>** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">
South Korea and the United States had planned a joint naval exercise from September 5 to 9 but it was delayed due to a typhoon.
Military officials were not available for comment but Yonhap news agency said the exercise would begin as early as next week.
Rodong Sinmun, the North's ruling party newspaper, accused the United States of mobilising a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier "to make the joint military exercises a nuclear war rehearsal".</span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__"A serio<span style="color: windowtext;">[[@http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/topic/search?q=us|us]]</span> situation, in which an all-out war may break out by any accident, is now prevailing in the Korean peninsula,"__</span>** it said.
"However, the US war maniacs are **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__ceaselessly beefing up armed forces and staging war games in this acute hotspot,__</span>** which **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__may drive the situation to an unpredictable grave phase." The North's army and people__</span>** "can never remain an onlooker", the newspaper said, adding they **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__would "go all-out__</span>** to display the stamina of (North Korea) **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__if the enemies dare provoke".__ </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Relations soured dramatically this year after the South accused the North of torpedoing one of its warships and killing 46 sailors in March. The North denied involvement and threatened retaliation. </span>

</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And, war in North Korea would spread to global nuclear conflict**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Kim** Myong Chol, <span class="cite">**1998**</span>, November 24, www.nautilus.org/for a/security/23C_Kim.html</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The long-sealed Pandora's box would be unlocked, loosing genies onto the world. The North Koreans would follow up through with their threat by announcing that they have succeeded in fabricating not only atomic bombs but hydrogen bombs small enough to be delivered by their small fleet of ICBMS. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__The Japanese and the Germans would decide to join the nuclear club.__ </span></span>The <span class="underline">__<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">East Asian tensions would be ratcheted up.</span>__ </span>The European front is quiet except for the Balkan situation, which has little possibility of flaring up into a nuclear exchange. The Mideast situation will remain still tense, but a nuclear shoot-out is a remote possibility. However, <span class="underline">**__the Northeast Asian situation is quite alarming, because two million-strong armies__**</span>, both <span class="underline">**__armed with nuclear weapons, confront each other along the 38th Parallel__**</span> in Korea in a near-war tension in the absence of a peace treaty. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__The first__</span>** __<span class="underline">**casualties in a nuclear conflagration**</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">in Korea</span>**__ __<span class="underline">**would be South Korea and Japan,** <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">which have the world's heaviest concentration of</span></span>__ operating <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__nuclear power stations__</span></span> to serve the most booming economies on earth. __<span class="underline">**The second would include** **the USA**</span>__, **__<span class="underline">Russia, and China. ICBMs fired from the USA and North Korea would cross their paths over Japan and the Pacific, joined by those launched from Russia and China. </span>__** </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">And, </span>**n**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">uclear war ends life on earth for us //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">and all future generations</span>//</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Time 1982</span>**, “A Grim Manifesto on Nuclear War,” April 19,</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,950632-2,00.html</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Just as important, he recognizes that the critical but irresolvable uncertainties inherent in the subject of nuclear war cut two ways. They bedevil the Joint Chiefs of Staff as they design "targeting options" and President Reagan as he seeks to make credible the longstanding American threat of using nuclear </span>weapons first to retaliate against a Soviet tank attack on Western Europe. But those uncertainties also complicate the arguments of people like Schell, who maintain that **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__nuclear weaponry__</span>**, because it **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__threatens total destruction__</span>**, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">is devoid of military or political utility. Whether one believes that nuclear arsenals constitute an indispensable part of our national defense or that they constitute the ultimate threat to our survival, the fact remains that nobody knows what would happen in a nuclear war.  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Schell acknowledges this in a neat and compelling conclusion to the first section of</span> his book: "**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Once we learn that a holocaust might lead to extinction we have no right to gamble, because if we lose, the game will be over, and neither we nor anyone else will ever get another chance.__</span>** Therefore, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">although, scientifically speaking, there is all the difference in the world between the mere possibility that a holocaust will bring about extinction and the certainty of it, morally they are the same, and we have no choice but to</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;"> address the issue of nuclear weapons as though we knew for a certainty that then-use would put an end to our species."  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in; mso-para-margin-bottom: .01gd; mso-para-margin-left: 0in; mso-para-margin-right: 0in; mso-para-margin-top: .01gd;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 9pt;">That is precisely what Schell sets out to do in Chapter II, "The Second Death." Here Schell breaks new ground. Until now, most of those who have thought either occasionally or professionally about the unthinkable have tended to concentrate on the impact that nuclear war might have on a city or a nation. Schell looks beyond that particular horror to an even greater one and ponders the awful finality itself. If the worst comes true, after all, what more is there to think about? But Schell looks beyond the end, as it were, into the void. "Death lies at the core of each person's private existence, but part of death's meaning is to be found in the fact that it occurs in a biological and social world that survives."</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Times;"> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__Were that world to perish, it would be "the second death"—the death of the species, not just of the earth's population on doomsday, but of countless unborn generations. They would be__</span>** spared literal death but would nonetheless be victims—in his view **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the most important victims—of a nuclear war.__  </span>**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: center;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="font-size: 15pt;">Solvency </span>__</span>**</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**U.S. withdrawal is a game-changer – the non-aggression signal would de-escalate tensions and jumpstart de-nuclearization**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">David <span class="cite">**Lai**</span>, Prof of Asian Security Studies at the Strategic Studies Institute, Army War College, <span class="cite">**2009**</span>, “Obama's Policy Option on North Korea,” http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=286</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">President Obama should see that **__<span class="underline">the shortest route to the solution of the North Korean nuclear issue is </span>the direct one__** <span class="underline">**__between Washington and Pyongyang__**</span>. Yet given the unending confrontations with North Korea, the United States also has to make a stop in </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Beijing. In addition, Obama should see that the reasons for the 6-PT still hold, and it is necessary to get the 6-PT back to work. Finally, the president needs a realistic, workable approach to North Korea. China and Russia have long maintained that the North Korea problem is a remnant of the Cold War. They claim that it is a result of North Korea and the United States failing to make timely adjustments in their relations at the end of the Cold War (Russia and China normalized their relations with their</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Cold War opponent South Korea in 1991 and 1992 respectively). Thus, it follows that__<span class="underline"> **North Korea’s quest for nuclear weapons is an answer to its perceived security threat from the U**</span>nited <span class="underline">**S**</span>tates__. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__Washington holds the key__</span></span> to the North Korean issue, and it is time the United States stops letting emotions </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">dictate its foreign policy and should deal with North Korea pragmatically. That being said, it is unrealistic to propose change to the US approach toward North Korea at the height of the current confrontation. But the time will come when <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__the U__</span></span>nited <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__S__</span></span>tates <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__has to__</span></span> sit down with North Korea to <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__find a way out__</span></span>.4 In the next round of negotiations, President Obama should offer North Korea a pragmatic approach to get the two nations out of this senseless agony. Here are the key elements of this new potential approach: First, we know that North Korea wants to settle its problems with the United States directly. However, North Korea’s problems are ultimately Northeast Asian regional problems. Thus, the United States should deal with North Korea directly in the context of the 6-PT. That is, much like what former Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Christopher Hill did during the previous 6-PT, the United States can reach tentative agreements directly with North Korea in separate meetings and then bring in the other four parties to endorse these agreements and commit to their respective responsibilities. The United States should also take a new action-for-action approach with North Korea. Unlike the previous approach, which required North Korea to</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> freeze its nuclear facilities first<span class="underline">**__, the U__**</span>nited <span class="underline">**__S__**</span>tates <span class="underline">**__should take the initiative and ease North Korea__**</span>’s <span class="underline">**__security concerns__**</span> in return for North Korea freezing its nuclear weapons program. The US initiatives should include a peace treaty to conclude the Korean War, **__<span class="underline">which would entail the withdrawal of US combat troops from</span> South__** <span class="underline">**__Korea__**</span> and diplomatic recognition as part of </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">normalizing relations with North Korea. Along with the normalization of relations, the United States should promote full-fledged exchanges with North Korea, most notably, economic trade and development, education and cultural exchanges. These are not revolutionary ideas. The United States has reassured North Korea many times, verbally and in written form, in the Agreed Framework of 1994 and the 6-PT statements, that the United States respects North Korea’s sovereignty, the United States has no intention of invading North Korea and the United States will normalize relations with North Korea when the time is right. All of these promises were made on the condition that North Korea abandoned its nuclear program first. The key this time is for the United States to be willing to make the first move. The United States should make no secret about this pragmatic approach and what to expect from it. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__This would be an adjustment based on__</span></span> the <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__reality__</span></span> that the United States has refused to face for a long time __<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">**and** </span><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">not another concession</span></span>__**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">.</span>** </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**This**</span> **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">new approach</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span class="underline">**__would__** </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Franklin Gothic Heavy;">fundamentally change the nature of the game</span>__</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and US-North Korea relations. By extricating itself from direct conflict in Northeast Asia, the United States would <span class="underline">__<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">expect the nations in this region to take full responsibility</span> **in pursuing the goal of a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula**__</span>. </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">The United States would be declaring its commitment to this goal and working with the involved parties to bring the nuclear weapon issue to a satisfactory conclusion. The United States came to the Korean Peninsula 60 years ago with the good intention of helping the Koreans; however, the situation has changed over time.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span class="underline">**__The US military presence is__**</span> now <span class="underline">**__increasingly__**</span> perceived as <span class="underline">**__an obstacle__**</span> to the Korean unification process. The <span class="underline">**__withdrawal__**</span> of US combat troops from South Korea <span class="underline">**__is meant to remove this obstacle__**</span>.</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Although the United States surely wishes the Koreans all the best in their unification efforts, at the same time, it wants <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__to see__</span></span> this <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__unification__</span></span> take place __<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">through peaceful means,</span><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> </span><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">not</span></span>__ through <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__war__</span></span>.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">  </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And, troop withdrawal guarantees even the worst case scenario is limited, conventional war on the Korean Peninsula**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Doug <span class="cite">**Bandow**</span>, <span class="cite">**1996**</span>, Senior Fellow @ CATO, Tripwire: Korea and U.S. Foreign Policy in a Changed World, p. 8-10</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Military Dangers More important is the military risk of U.S. security ties. Although <span class="underline">**__the American commitment__** </span>probably helps deter North Korean aggression, it <span class="underline">**__ensures that the United States will be involved if hostilities should recur__**</span>. Indeed, <span class="underline">__<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the 37,000</span> **U.S. soldiers are a tripwire that makes intervention automatic**__</span>. Although the risk of war seems slight at the moment—in late 1995 famine in the North and political scandal in the South did raise tensions—<span class="underline">**__the consequences would be horrific__**</span>. And the possible acquisition by North Korea of atomic weapons increases the potential costs exponentially. **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__If a conflict erupted__</span>**, perhaps over the nuclear issue should the current agreement with Pyongyang break down, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__the <span class="underline">American troops would become nuclear hostages</span>__</span>**. There are obviously times when the nation must risk war. But this is not one. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__There are no vital American interests at stake that warrant such a risk__</span></span>. The mere fact that the United States fought in Korea nearly 50 years ago does not mean it should prepare to do so again; the best way of honoring the sacrifice of so many soldiers in that war is to ensure that no Americans will be forced to fight and die in a similar future conflict. That is not to say that Washington has no interests at stake on the peninsula—the U.S.-South Korean cultural and economic ties are real, though modest—but they do not warrant a security guarantee and troop presence. In any case, Ame<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__rica no longer needs to provide a military commitment to secure its interests. South Korea is now fully capable of defending itself__</span></span>. So, why is Washington risking the lives of U.S. soldiers in Korea? Put bluntly, would it dramatically affect American interests if war broke out on the peninsula and produced the worst-case scenario— a <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__North Korean__</span></span> conquest of the ROK? Since the Korean War killed an estimated 1 million Koreans and Kim Jong Il's regime is the last best replica of Stalinist totalitarianism, such a conflict and outcome would obviously be tragic.21 But tragedy alone is not sufficient to warrant U.S. intervention, otherwise America would have invaded the USSR and, later, China to stop mass murder greater than that which occurred in Nazi Germany. America would also have occupied Angola, Bosnia, Burundi, Liberia, Sudan, and a host of other smaller hellholes around the globe. While moral concerns tug at our hearts, they are not enough to warrant committing 260 million Americans to war, risking unknown amounts of treasure and numbers of lives. In the case of Korea, we should ask, would U.S. security be seriously affected by a war **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__(assuming no American tripwire was present to automatically trigger U.S. involvement)__</span>**? No Threat to America The answer is no. Kim Jong Il's <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__forces would pose no credible military threat to the United States__</span></span>. And, unlike the situation in 1950, a successful North Korean attack, highly unlikely given the South's capabilities, would be unconnected to a larger, hegemonic international threat to America. A united communist Korea would lack the wherewithal even to threaten its closest neighbors, China and Russia. Given the low quality of the North's military, and Pyongyang's economic travails, as well as the intensified international isolation that would greet the DPRK as a result of renewed aggression, __<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">even</span> **the** <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">unlikely</span> **worst-case scenario would be a tragedy confined to the Korean peninsula**</span>__. A victorious North Korea would face insurmountable difficulty developing the military capability to intervene overseas, against, say, Japan. Pyongyang's possible possession of nuclear weapons would rightly frighten Tokyo, but the latter's development of a countervailing weapon, while unsettling to its neighbors, would deter any adventurism. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And, U.S. withdrawal would be smooth – South Korea can defend itself**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Doug <span class="cite">**Bandow**</span>, **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">1998</span>**, senior fellow @ CATO, 11-11-<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">2008</span></span>, “Seoul Searching,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20218</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt 0in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, however, the misnamed mutual defense treaty—in practice, <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__the defense guarantee__</span></span> runs only from Washington to Seoul—<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__is an expensive anachronism. It should be terminated__</span></span>, not reinforced. The ROK and the United States should remain friends and cooperate in pursuing common goals, including promoting Asian security, but the American people no longer should be responsible for South Korea’s defense. Washington’s promise to defend the South goes back to 1953 and the unsatisfying end of the Korean War. Rather than gain the victory Americans had grown to expect, the Eisenhower administration accepted a stalemate near the pre-invasion border. The fighting concluded with an armistice, but no peace treaty. China, whose large-scale intervention had saved North Korea from defeat, maintained a large troop presence in the DPRK. Without wartime U.S. support, the ROK government would have been swept from the peninsula. Without post-war U.S. support, Seoul would have been overwhelmed in any resumption of hostilities. The aged, irascible and authoritarian Syngman Rhee was an embarrassment to the United States, but Washington felt it had little choice but to support him as well as the military dictators who followed. At least Park Chung-hee was an economic liberalizer, and the ROK economy took off before the South finally transitioned to democracy, some two</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> decades ago. __<span class="underline">**South Korea** <span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">is a helpless international dependent no longer</span></span>__. The South ranks among the world’s top-dozen economies and is the third most important geopolitical player in East Asia. Also, <span class="underline">__<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the ROK long ago</span> **raced past the North in every measure of national power**__</span>. South Korea has twice the population, upwards of forty times the GDP, a vast technological edge, and far more allies and friends. <span class="underline">**__Seoul’s military budget approaches the DPRK’s entire GDP__**</span>. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Moreover<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__, the North’s__</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__one-time military allies__</span></span>, Russia and China, <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__both recognized Seoul as the cold war concluded__</span></span>. The ROK now does more business with Beijing than with America. <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__The likelihood of either Moscow or Beijing backing North Korea in any new war is somewhere between infinitesimal and zero. The rest of East Asia would unreservedly stand behind South Korea__</span></span>. And yet, Seoul has spent the last decade subsidizing the North. Providing aid to and investing in one’s enemy is a curious strategy for dealing with a supposed security threat. If the ROK actually fears the North, it should have redirected some of the aid money to its military budget.</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> In sum, <span class="underline">**__the South doesn’t need America to defend it__**</span>. South Korea has been capable of protecting itself for decades<span class="underline">**__. It makes no sense for the United States to maintain__**</span> a defense guarantee for—or <span class="underline">**__troop deployments in—the ROK__**</span>. </span>The North’s nuclear program, whatever the prognosis for the ongoing denuclearization talks, offers no justification for the alliance. First, U<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__.S. forces based in the peninsula do not constrain Pyongyang__</span></span>. To the contrary, they offer a justification for the DPRK to build a nuclear arsenal. They will be nuclear hostages if the North creates a deliverable weapon. Nowhere else on earth would Washington have so many military personnel at such risk. Second, absent America’s defense commitment, a North Korean nuclear weapon would be a problem for the South and the rest of the region, not the United States. Washington retains an overwhelming deterrent capability, Pyongyang as yet has no means of reaching the American homeland, and even if it were capable of doing so, there is no evidence that Kim Jong-il, or his likely successors, are suicidal. Other advoc<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__ates of the alliance make the “dual use” argument, that American forces stationed on the Korean peninsula are useful for purposes other than defending South Korea__</span></span>**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">. </span>**<span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__But an army division and assorted__</span></span> other <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__forces have little useful role in promoting regional stability__</span></span>, whatever that means in practice (invading Burma or preventing the dissolution of Indonesia?). And minimal ROK support for other U.S. objectives, such as providing a small troop contingent to a safe sector of Iraq (which Seoul plans on withdrawing by year’s end), is not worth today’s one-sided alliance. Most American analysts, at least, also view the ROK as a member of an incipient anti-China coalition <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__to contain Beijing. The__</span></span> only <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__problem__</span></span> with this strategy <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__is that virtually no one in South Korea will sign up.__</span></span> Forget the historic ties and present economic relationship between the PRC and ROK. The most obvious casus belli between the United States and China is Taiwan. Who in South Korea wants to make his country a permanent enemy of the incipient superpower next door, let alone do so to save Taipei? <span class="underline"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">__Especially since U.S. bases in the South would be an equally obvious and easy target should Washington and Beijing start shooting at one another.__</span></span> In short, while Seoul wants a continuing U.S. presence as a residual insurance policy against North Korea and perhaps China (and even Japan), it will not risk its security by backing U.S. geopolitical objectives. The alliance was one-way when it was created. It remains one-way today. Washington has good reason to support the survival of a democratic, capitalist ROK. But long ago the South gained the ability to assure that result. The world will be better-off when today’s totalitarian North Korea disappears, whether replaced by a reformist regime or absorbed by South Korea. But the United States has no incentive to try to force such a result. The job of transforming the Hermit Kingdom should be left to the North’s neighbors, who have far more at stake, both good and bad.<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**The plan empowers North Korean reformers sidelines hardliner influence – its key to peace on the Peninsula**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Yasuhiro <span class="cite">**Izumikawa**</span>, PhD and candidate for the Keidanren Chair in Japanese Research, Miyazaki International College, Miyazaki, Japan, <span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">Fall </span><span class="cite">**2004**</span><span style="font-family: Times-Roman;">, “The Korean Endgame,” Pacific Affairs: Volume 77, No. 3</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Among the few Westerners who have visited North Korea, Selig </span><span class="underline">**__Harrison__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> stands out for his intensive contacts with North Korean leaders, and he </span><span class="underline">**__is one of the Western intellectuals most informed of the inner workings of North Korean politics. Based on his rich experiences__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the author puts forward a provocative argument about how </span><span class="underline">**__the U__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="underline">**__S__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="underline">**__can promote stability and peace in the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This book provides an insightful alternative strategy for US policy toward the region, although his opponents will remain unconvinced. The author’s core argument is straightforward and controversial: </span><span class="underline">**__the U__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="underline">**__S__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="underline">**__should__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> gradually </span><span class="underline">**__disengage itself from the Korean Peninsula__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. According to the author, </span><span class="underline">**__the current US policy that__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is designed to </span><span class="underline">**__maintain a__**</span> __<span class="underline">**permanent US military presence in the Korean Peninsula is** </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-family: Franklin Gothic Heavy;">counter- productive</span></span><span class="underline"> **to the stability of the region**</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Instead, he argues, </span><span class="underline">**__the US military in South Korea should gradually withdraw__** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">from the peninsula in order </span><span class="underline">**__to promote the__** **__reconciliation__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of </span><span class="underline">**__the two Koreas and__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to </span><span class="underline">**__solicit cooperation from the regional powers for the creation of a nuclear-free neutral Korea__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The assumption that underlies the author’s argument, although it remains implicit, is that </span><span class="underline">**__domestic politics in North Korea play an__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> equal or more </span><span class="underline">**__important role in determining its__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> external </span><span class="underline">**__behaviour__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> than international environments. In particular, he emphasizes the importance of nationalism in both Koreas. He points out that </span><span class="underline">**__nationalism in North Korea remains strong__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> despite economic hardships, and that perceived </span><span class="underline">**__US military threats help North Korean hardliners exploit this nationalism to defend their preferred policies__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In South Korea, on the other hand, the continuing US military presence is the source of rising anti-US nationalism, he argues. </span><span class="underline">**__It follows that US disengagement would enable North Korean reformers to pursue more cooperative relations with the West__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, while alleviating anti-US sentiment in the South. </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Sex Trafficing Advantage...</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">US bases in South Korea have been a hub of sex trafficking and prostitution for 65 years </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Kloer, 2010</span>**, Amanda, 2/19, “Sex Trafficking High Around U.S. Military Bases Abroad,” http://humantrafficking.change.org/blog/view/sex_trafficking_high_ around_us_military_bases_abroad</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Serving in the United States military is about honor, dignity, and strength. So it makes sense that the U.S. military would make visiting brothels and having sex with women and kids forced into a prostitution a big no-no for American soldiers, right? On paper, establishments that sell sex are off-limits for men (and women) in uniform. But in practice, __sex trafficking <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.examiner.com/x-24740-Norfolk-Human-Rights-Examiner~y2010m2d8-US-military-personals-creates-demand-for-sex-trafficking-in-South-Korea|flourishes]]</span> near U.S. military bases.__ Should U.S. soldiers be abusing people in another country while protecting people in this one?</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__Of all the countries where an American military presence attracts prostitution, both voluntary and **<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">forced</span>**, South Korea may feel the effects most acutely. U.S. troops have been stationed in South Korea since 1945, and the brothels around the U.S. military bases have been there just as long.__ In 2004, the Pentagon drafted a policy to reduce the sex trafficking growing wherever American soldiers, sailors, and airmen were stationed, with specific attention to South Korea. Under that policy, military personnel caught visiting a brothel or "massage parlour" could be subject to court martial. However, there is very little information available about how often that sanction is enforced.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__There is evidence__, however, that the policy has not worked in reducing demand __for__ prostitution, evidenced by the continuing __high levels of prostitution and human trafficking near U.S. military bases.__ The U.S. military has finally begun to make some clubs and bars known to traffic women or sell children off-limits to service members, but one report indicates that only 4 out of 25 such places in the area have been listed as off-limits. The South Korean government, too, has been cracking down on sex trafficking in the past few years. However, the areas surrounding the U.S. military base have been exempted from the crackdown by the Korean government. So brothels around U.S. military bases are falling through the cracks of both U.S. government and Korean government policy.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">If government policy is in place and sex trafficking is still going on, then what can be done to prevent it? The Pentagon took a good first step in putting a policy in place to prevent American military uniforms from showing up at brothels where women and children are forced into prostitution. However, they need to do more. Specifically, they need to enforce that policy, including against officers, whose indiscretions are sometimes ignored. They also need to work to change __the culture in the military__ that __views women as sexual objects__. Addressing the latter will not only make a difference in the amount of sex trafficking around bases, but also the sexual harassment, rape, and assault of women serving in the military.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.mencanstoprape.org/info-url2698/info-url.htm|Men Can Stop Rape]]</span> has a great campaign called "Our Strength is Not for Hurting," which focuses on equating masculinity and strength with respect for women. They have a similar campaign aimed specifically at military personnel. This would be a great starting point for the U.S. military to truly tackle the demand for sex trafficking which exists around their bases.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">And, South Korean “juicy bars” circumvent laws against prostitution </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Kloer, 2010</span>**, Amanda, May 5, “Congress Fights Prostitution Near U.S. Military Bases in Korea,” http://humantrafficking.change.org/blog/view/congress_fights_ prostitution_near_us_military_bases_in_korea</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">The system of __South Korean "juicy bars"__ — bars which __cater to U.S. military bases__ in the country — has come under fire lately for links to prostitution and human trafficking. But Congress has introduced a bill to better monitor what prostitution or human trafficking, if any, is happening near U.S. military bases and figure out how best to reduce it.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__Here's how the "juicy bar" system <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://humantrafficking.change.org/blog/view/the_philippines_prevents_trafficking_around_us_military_bases_in_s_korea|works]]</span>: Filipina and other foreign women are brought to South Korea by brokers as "entertainers." The brokers then rent the women out to bars, priced depending on the girl's "talents" or attractiveness and the bar's needs. There, they flirt with and kiss soldiers and tourists, in an attempt to keep them buying the girls expensive juice drinks. If a girl sells her quota of juice drinks in the evening, all is usually well. But if she doesn't, she's expected to make up the difference. And her only means of doing that is prostitution.__ </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__Both South Korea and the U.S. have laws in place to prevent prostitution from being targeted to U.S. soldiers, but the juicy bar system has long skirted the laws.__ The <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.stripes.com/article.asp?section=104&article=69701|new bill]]</span> on the table in Congress would both place stronger restrictions against juicy bars and do a better job of monitoring U.S. military activities that may be connected to human trafficking. It would also promote cooperation between the military and local NGOs, to help identify situations of human trafficking. The Department of Defense would also be required to step up monitoring of cases where service members have been accused of facilitating human trafficking or other organized crime. And that includes buying sex from a trafficked girl or woman.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">So far, an outright ban on the juicy bars has been rejected, since not all of them promote prostitution or coerce the women who work there into prostituting on the side. But the U.S. government and the Department of Defense will certainly be keeping a closer watch on the situation if the proposed legislation passes. And they might even be on the lookout if it doesn't. Because the last thing any branch of the military wants is to be tied to forced prostitution at a juicy bar.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**This strategy of military basing on foreign territories is the foundation of a pervasive militarism that results in racism, sexism, sexual violence, rape, environmental destruction, and war!!! All of these impacts have our bases as their common core**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**Kirk, 2008**</span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span class="underline">**__The power dynamics of militarism in the Asia-Pacific region rely on dominance and subordination. These hierarchical relationships, shaped by gender, can be seen in U.S. military exploitation of host communities, its abuse and contamination of land and water, and the exploitation of women and children through the sex industry, sexual violence, and rape. Women’s bodies, the land, and indigenous communities are all feminized, treated as dispensable and temporary. What is constructed as “civilized, white, male, western, and rational” is held superior to what is defined as “primitive, non-white, female, non-western, and irrational.” Nations and U.S. territories within the Asia-Pacific region are treated as inferiors with limited sovereignty or agency in relation to U.S. foreign policy interests that go hand-in-hand with this racist/sexist ideology. The imbalance of power in gender relations in and around bases is mirrored at the alliance level as well__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The United States controls Hawai’i through statehood; Guam is a colonial territory; and the United States is the dominant partner in alliances with Japan, South Korea, and the Philippines. </span><span class="underline">**__The expansion and restructuring of U.S. bases and military operations in the region depend on these imbalances of power, which are rooted in histories of annexation, colonization, exploitation, and war. The Asia-Pacific region is a major part of the worldwide network of U.S. bases and facilities that support the global war on terror and enables the United States to extend its reach far beyond its own shores. The war on terror is only the latest justification for U.S. military presence in communities that have little say over the activities of armed outsiders. This network in turn depends on a set of interrelated phenomena – violence against women and girls, violation of local people’s self-determination, and abuse and contamination of the environment – that reinforce gender stereotypes.__** </span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**And, rape is the ultimate expression of patriarchy**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**Cahill, 2001**</span> Ann Cahill, Associate Professor of Philosophy, Rethinking Rape, Page 2, 2001</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span class="underline">**__Rape is__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, for many feminists,</span><span class="underline"> **__the ultimate expression of patriarchal order__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="underline">**__a crime that epitomizes women's oppressed status by proclaiming in the loudest possible voice, the most degrading truths about women that a hostile world has to offer.__** **__In much feminist theory__** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">and discussion, then, </span><span class="underline">**__rape has functioned as the outer limit of oppression of women, that indisputable act of violence and loathing__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Rape has also presented feminism with some of its most difficult problems. Some stem from its sheer frequency: how do we explain why so many men rape? Others involve rapes ethical significance: what exactly is the wrong in the wrong of rape? The application of force? The lack of consent? Still others concentrate on the implications of the feminist concern with violence against women: by stressing the extent of that violence, do we risk defining women primarily as victims? How does one resist the phenomenon of rape, and how is it implicated in larger discourses of sex, gender, race, class, nationalism, and “ethnic cleansing”? How are we to understand what rape does and can do to women</span>?</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**We must recognize patriarchy as the system that keeps all forms of violence alive. The impact of patriarchy outweighs all and culminates in extinction. Our plan’s confrontation of the patriarchal conceptions embedded in militarism is key to solve.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**Warren and Cady 1996**</span> (Karen and Duane, Assistant Professors Macalester University and Hamline University, Bringing Peace Home: Feminism, Violence, and Nature, p. 12-13, LV)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Operationalized, </span><span class="underline">**__the evidence of patriarchy as a dysfunctional system is found in the behaviors to which it gives rise__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (c) the unmanageability, (d) which results. For example, in the United States, current estimates are that one out of every three or four women will be raped by someone she knows; </span><span class="underline">**__globally, rape, sexual harassment, spouse-beating, and sado-masochistic pornography are examples of behaviors practices, sanctioned, or tolerated within patriarchy.__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the realm of </span><span class="underline">**__environmentally destructive behaviors__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, strip-mining, factory farming, and pollution of the air, water, and soil </span><span class="underline">**__are__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> instances of behaviors </span><span class="underline">**__maintained__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and sanctioned </span><span class="underline">**__within patriarchy. They__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, too, </span><span class="underline">**__rest on the faulty beliefs that it is okay to “rape the earth,” that it is “man’s__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> God-given </span><span class="underline">**__right” to have dominion__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (that is, domination) over the earth, </span><span class="underline">**__that nature has only instrumental value, that environmental destruction is__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="underline">**__acceptable__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> price we pay </span><span class="underline">**__for “progress__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” And </span><span class="underline">**__the presumption of warism__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, that war is a natural, righteous, and ordinary way to impose dominion on a people or nation, </span><span class="underline">**__goes hand in hand with patriarchy and leads to dysfunctional behaviors of nations and__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ultimately to international </span><span class="underline">**__unmanageability__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="underline">**__Much__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the current “</span><span class="underline">**__unmanageability__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">” of contemporary life in patriarchal societies, (d), </span><span class="underline">**__is__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> then viewed as a </span><span class="underline">**__consequence of a patriarchal preoccupation with activities, events, and experiences that reflect historically male-gender-identified beliefs, values, attitudes, and assumptions__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="underline">**__Included among these__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> real-life </span><span class="underline">**__consequences are__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> precisely those concerns with </span><span class="underline">**__nuclear proliferation, war, environmental destruction, and violence towards women__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which many feminists see as the logical outgrowth of patriarchal thinking. In fact, it is often only through observing these dysfunctional behaviors—the symptoms of dysfunctionality—that one can truly see that and how patriarchy serves to maintain and perpetuate them. </span><span class="underline">**__When patriarchy is understood as a dysfunctional system, this “unmanageability” can be seen for what it is—as a predictable and thus logical consequence of patriarchy. The theme that global environmental crises, war, and violence generally are predictable and logical consequences of sexism and patriarchal culture is pervasive__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in ecofeminist literature. Ecofeminist Charlene Spretnak, for instance, argues that “a militarism and warfare are continual features of a patriarchal society because they reflect and instill patriarchal values and fulfill needs of such a system. </span><span class="underline">**__Acknowledging the context of patriarchal conceptualizations that feed militarism is a first step toward__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> reducing their impact and </span><span class="underline">**__preserving life on Earth__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” Stated in terms of the foregoing model of patriarchy as a dysfunctional social system, the claims by Spretnak and other feminists take on a clearer meaning: </span><span class="underline">**__Patriarchal conceptual frameworks legitimate impaired thinking (about women__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, national and regional </span><span class="underline">**__conflict, the environment) which__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is manifested in behaviors which, if continued, </span><span class="underline">**__will make life on earth__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> difficult, if not </span><span class="underline">**__impossible__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It is a stark message, but it is plausible. Its plausibility lies in understanding the conceptual roots of various woman-nature-peace connections in regional, national, and global contexts.</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 12pt;">__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Collapse U: Multiwarrant**</span>__</span>== 
===<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Collapse inevitable; 5 reasons</span>**</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">John Bellamy <span class="tagCharCharCharChar">**Foster**</span>, Introduction, “The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time.” <span class="tagCharCharCharChar">**2008** <span style="font-weight: normal;">p. 15 </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;">
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The capital system, The Challenge and Burden of Historical Time insists, is unable to rise above "short-termism" in its outlook. </span><span class="underline">**__This is linked to the threefold contradictions of:I. its innate "uncontrollability:' which derives from the antagonistic nature of its mode of social metabolic control; 2. its unceasing dialectic of competition and monopoly; and 3. its inability to integrate politically on the global plane despite its globalizing economic tendencies. It therefore displays a deep aversion to planning.The result is a maximum of waste and destruction, marked by the incessant degradation of human labor, a decreasing rate of utilization, ballooning financial parasitism, a rising threat of nuclear annihilation,expanding barbarismu and accelerating planetary ecological catastrophe.__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> On October 19, 1999, Mészáros delivered a public lecture in Athens entitled "Socialism or Barbarism:' which was later expanded into a small book under the same title that was published in Greek and Italian in 2000 and in English in 2001 (and is included as chapter 4 of the present book). There he argued, well before the events of September 11, 2001, that the world had entered "the potentially deadliest phase of imperialism:' The United States is now effectively at war with the entire planet in a futile attempt to become the state of the capitalist system, even at the risk of the annihilation of humanity itself. </span></span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0.1pt 0in 0.1pt 0.5in;">devastated the savings of Germany's middle class seventy-five years ago. Recent terrorist acts against Indonesian Christians (as symbols of the West) and Westerners directly (the November 2002 bombing of a disco in Bali) are reminiscent of Germany's middle class turning against those it identified with market values, such as European Jews and the West. The West, in this sense, means market civilization. [End Page 21] </span>


==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 12pt;">[[#_Toc266997897]][[#_Toc266979407]] </span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Capitalism makes nuclear annihilation inevitable**</span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="boldciteChar">**Meszaros 2000** </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(Istvan, Prof. of Philosophy @ Univ. of Sussex. __Monthly Review.__ January, LN) </span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 31.5pt 0pt 0.5in;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Given the way in which the ongoing tends of global development assert themselves</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, in a clearly identifiable way, __we may have perhaps a few decades to bring to a halt their destuctiveness, but certainly not centuries.__ The great liberal economist, __Schumpeter, used to characterize—and idalize—capitalissm as a system of “productive destruction.” This was, on the whole, true of capital’s ascending phase of development__. Today, by contrast, __we have reached a stage when, instead of “productive destruction,” we are even increasingly confronted by capital’s destructive production, proceeding on a frightening scale.__ You ask: “do you think that great mass movements have a chance to blossom again” in the age of globalization and under the “third way” of European social democracy? For me the “third way” is nothing more than a wishful fantasy, in defense of the established, untenable, order. __Sociologists__ like Max Scheler __have been predicting for almost a century the merging of the classes into a happy “middle-class”—one could only wonder: the middle of what? In reality, social polarization in our time is greater than ever before, making a mockery of the old social democratic expectations of eliminating—or at least greatly reducing—inequality through “progressive taxation.”__ As things turned out, we saw the diametrical opposite. To give you just two, very recent, examples: 1.) according to the Budget Office of the U.S. Congress (no “left-wing exaggerator,” for sure), __the income of the top 1 percent is equivalent to that of the bottom one hundred million people, i.e. nearly 40 percent of the population.__ Twenty years ago it was “only” 1 percent against forty-nine million, i.e., less than twenty percent of the U.S. population. Some “equalization” and “merging of the classes into one another!” 2__.) In England child poverty trebled in the last twenty years, and continued to be aggravated under the “New Labour” government in the last two and a half years__. The “new labour” government preaches the vacuous “third way” sermon, and practices with ever greater severity the politics of antilabor measures, imposing even such policies which Mrs. Thatcher did not dare to introduce, cutting the Welfare State in every possible way, including even the precarious livelihood of the handicapped. __Only a fool can assume that this can go on forever__. So, in answer to your question, __I am firmly convinced that there is a future for a radical mass movement, not only in England but also in the rest of the world. Or, to put it another way, if there is no future for such a movement, there can be no future for humanity itself.__ If I had to modify Rosa Luxemburg’s dictum, in relation to the dangers we face, __I would add to “socialism or barbarism:” “barbarism if we are lucky”—in the sense that extermination of humankind is the ultimate concomitant of capital’s destructive course of development. And the world of that third possibility, beyond the alternatives of “socialism or barbarism,” would be fit only for cockroaches, which are said to be able to endure lethally high levels of nuclear radiation. This is the only rational meaning of capital’s third way.__ </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; margin: 0in 1.4in 0pt 1in;">. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"> </span>













==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">CP Text: The United States Federal Government should engage in binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization prior to implementing (insert plan text) Throughout the consultation process the United States government should endorse the plan. We’ll clarify </span>**</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Solvency Cards</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Consultation on security issues is key to NATO</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Zbigniew <span class="tagChar">**Brezezinski**</span>, Center for strategic and international studies counselor and trustee, Foreign Affairs, <span class="cite">**2009**</span>, proquest</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Even more perplexing is the current significance of Article 5 to Europe itself. It raises the question of how tightly binding are NATO's collective-security obligations. If a geopolitically exposed European member of nato were to become a victim of an armed attack and if the United States and the United Kingdom and other nato allies were inclined to come to its aid but, say, Greece and Italy were not, could Article 5 be invoked?
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite the expansion of its membership to 28 countries, </span>__**NATO remains bound by**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">what it has defined as</span> __<span class="underline">**"a fundamental principle"** </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">namely,</span> __<span class="underline">**that "all NATO decisions are made by consensus," that "consensus has been accepted as the sole basis for decision-making in NATO since the creation of the Alliance**</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">in 1949," </span><span class="underline">**__and that "this principle remains in place__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." Accordingly, the secretary-general of NATO, as part of the task assigned to him at the recent alliance summit, might consider designating a senior allied group to undertake a review of the current meaning of Article 5. Not only the Afghan challenge but also the significant decline of the U.S. military presence in Europe, the increased membership in NATO itself, and the changes already noted in the global security context call for another look at this key article. Even if a war in Europe is unlikely (and in any such case, the U.S. reaction would be the most significant for some time to come), </span><span class="underline">**__it is right to ask whether a single member__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - or even two or three members - </span><span class="underline">**__of a collective-security alliance have the right to in effect veto a joint response.__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Perhaps some thought should be given to formulating a more operational definition of "consensus" when it is shared by an overwhelming majority but not by everyone.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">**Only binding consultation can maintain the alliance**
<span class="tagChar">**Agence France Presse**</span>, May 8 <span class="tagChar">**2010**</span> “Biden to trawl for Afghanistan ideas at NATO”, Lexis</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">US </span>[[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T9651702555&returnToId=20_T9651751148&csi=10903&A=0.9634439749594944&sourceCSI=9369&indexTerm=%2523PE000A0BO%2523&searchTerm=Vice%20President%20Joe%20Biden%20&indexType=P|**Vice President Joe Biden** ]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="verdana">**__heads to Brussels on Monday for__** </span><span class="hit">__consultations__</span><span class="verdana"> **__with__** </span><span class="hit">__NATO__</span><span class="verdana"> **__allies as a moment of decision looms on a new US strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan.__** </span>Biden, who holds a day of talks in Brussels Tuesday, will be on his second trip to Europe in a month, <span class="underline">**__and officials said his high-profile journey was a sign of how seriously they took the war policy review__**</span>. President </span>[[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T9651702555&returnToId=20_T9651751148&csi=10903&A=0.9634439749594944&sourceCSI=9369&indexTerm=%2523PE000A0BO%2523&searchTerm=Barack%20Obama&indexType=P|Barack Obama]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> <span class="verdana">'s deputy will be tracing the steps of US Secretary of </span><span class="hit">State</span><span class="verdana"> Hillary **__Clinton__**, who **__met__** </span>__<span class="hit">NATO</span>**<span class="verdana"> foreign ministers in Brussels last week. </span><span class="underline">"It's just an indication of the seriousness of the situation in Afghanistan, but I think it's also a recognition of the seriousness with which we take this,"</span>**__ said a senior </span>[[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T9651702555&returnToId=20_T9651751148&csi=10903&A=0.9634439749594944&sourceCSI=9369&indexTerm=%2523PE000A0BO%2523&searchTerm=Obama%20administration%20&indexType=P|Obama administration ]]<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="verdana">official on condition of anonymity.</span>"<span class="underline">**__This is not just lip service, the idea of consultation, we mean it, and in return we want concrete ideas and concrete assistance,"__** </span>said the official. <span class="underline">**__Biden will hold consultations with the North Atlantic Council, the political and decision-making body of the alliance's 26 member states, NATO__**</span> </span>[[http://www.lexisnexis.com/us/lnacademic/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T9651702555&returnToId=20_T9651751148&csi=10903&A=0.9634439749594944&sourceCSI=9369&indexTerm=%2523PE000A2Y2%2523&searchTerm=secretary%20general%20Jaap%20&indexType=P|secretary general Jaap ]]<span class="verdana"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">and Belgian government officials.</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">

**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">(read net-benefit)</span>**</span>

== == 
==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 12pt;">[[#_Toc266998886]] </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**NATO unified now**</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"><span class="underline">CBC News 10 (“US Vows Unified Afghan Battle After Shakeup”, June 24 2010, online) </span></span>__**</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span class="underline">**__The U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan promised Thursday to work on a unified mission with__**</span> Gen. David <span class="underline">**__Petraeus__** </span>after the ouster of Gen. Stanley McChrystal as the top commander in the war. President Barack <span class="underline">**__Obama replaced McChrystal as head of U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan__**</span> on Wednesday after a magazine article in which McChrystal and his aides criticized the U.S. administration. </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">NATO has changed: They must be consulted in order to build cohesion, which is key to regional security and peace in Eastern Europe. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Christopher J. <span class="cite">**Eggert**</span>, Associate, Sherman, Sherman & Murch L.L.P. at Salem, Oregon. J.D., Willam ette University College of Law, 1996; B.A., Oregon State University, 1993., © 19<span class="cite">**97**</span>
Willamette Journal of International Law & Dispute Resolution , http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe/document?_m=0f611507b076590c44192a7dbbc7a839&_docnum=12&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkVb&_md5=5371aed3fcd011cdedf2ea321fc576a0</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span class="underline">**__The last decade has seen dramatic changes in the relation ship between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">NATO) and the countries of the former Warsaw Pact. At the beginning of the post-Cold War era, </span><span class="underline">**__NATO finds itself trying to redefine not only its reason for existence, but also its relationships with nations that, until recently, were viewed primarily as potential enemies. Whether NATO builds a lasting working relationship of openness with those nations or closes its borders to them, may be a significant factor in determining how long the post-Cold War era lasts. NATO must choose either openness or isolation.__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In 1984, at the height of the anti-Soviet Reagan-era efforts in the United States, General Alexander M. Haig, Jr., wrote, </span>**__<span class="underline">"Our challenge, then is not to work at cross-purposes based on different perspec tives. </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As always<span class="underline">__**,**__ </span></span>**__<span class="underline">that remains the easiest course of action. In stead, our obligation is to work together, to try to reconcile these perspectives with the vision of a common interest."<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[#r1]]<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe/document?_m=0f611507b076590c44192a7dbbc7a839&_docnum=12&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkVb&_md5=5371aed3fcd011cdedf2ea321fc576a0#n1|1]]</span></span></span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> General Haig </span><span class="underline">**__intended this statement to encourage NATO cohesion__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the face of the perceived Soviet threat. But now, at the end of the twentieth century, General Haig's "vision of a common in terest" takes on a new, more expansive meaning for NATO. It appears </span><span class="underline">**__NATO has chosen__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> recently to take the more diffi cult route of</span>**__<span class="underline">building mutual cooperation and understanding with the nations of the former Warsaw Pact in areas of common interest<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Russia is a focal point of these efforts. The framework within which the future relationship between NATO and Russia is likely to develop is the Founding Act on Mutual Relations, Cooperation and Security Between NATO and the Russian Fed [*56] eration (Founding Act). [[#r2]][[http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe/document?_m=0f611507b076590c44192a7dbbc7a839&_docnum=12&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkVb&_md5=5371aed3fcd011cdedf2ea321fc576a0#n2|2]] The Founding Act establishes a new relationship between </span><span class="underline">**__NATO and Russia that promises to build a lasting peace and security in Eastern Europe if followed in both spirit and letter.__** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Charter on a Distinctive Partnership Be tween the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Ukraine (Dis tinctive Partnership) [[#r3]][[http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe/document?_m=0f611507b076590c44192a7dbbc7a839&_docnum=12&wchp=dGLbVlb-zSkVb&_md5=5371aed3fcd011cdedf2ea321fc576a0#n3|3]] serves a similar purpose.</span></span>



==<span style="margin: 0in 0in 12pt;">[[#_Toc266998887]]</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Relations collapse between the U.S. and NATO causes regional instability that escalates to superpower nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">John <span class="cite">**O'Sullivan**</span>, editor of the National Review and founder of the New Atlantic, 6-19<span class="cite">**98**</span> [American Spectator] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; margin: 0in 0.2in 0pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some of those ideas--notably, dissolution and "standing pat"--were never likely to be implemented. Quite apart from the sociological law that says organizations never go out of business even if their main aim has been achieved (the only exception being a slightly ominous one, the Committee for the Free World, which Midge Decter closed down after the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact), </span><span class="underline">**__NATO's essential aim has not been permanently achieved__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. True, the Soviet threat is gone; but </span><span class="underline">**__a nuclear-armed and potentially unstable Russia is still in the game__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; a major conflict has just been fought in the very Balkans which sparked the First World War; and </span><span class="underline">**__there are a number of potential wars and civil wars lurking__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in such regions as the Tyrol, the Basque country, Northern Ireland (not yet finally settled), Corsica, Belgium, Kosovo, and Eastern Europe and the Balkans generally where, it is said, " every England has its Ireland, and every Ireland its Ulster." </span><span class="underline">**__If none of these seems to threaten the European peace very urgently__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at present, </span><span class="underline">**__that is__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in part </span><span class="underline">**__because the existence of NATO makes any such threat futile__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and even counter-productive. </span><span class="underline">**__No nation__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or would-be nation </span><span class="underline">**__wants to take NATO on__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="underline">**__And if not NATO, what__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">? There are international bodies which could mediate some of the lesser conflicts: the Organization for Security Cooperation in Europe is explicitly given that responsibility, and the European Union is always itching to show it can play a Big Power role. But neither body has the military heft or the prestige to deter or repress serious strife. </span><span class="underline">**__The OSCE is a collective security organization__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and as Henry Kissinger said of a similar body: "</span><span class="underline">**__When all participants agree, there is no need for it; when they split, it is useless__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">." And </span><span class="underline">**__the EU only made itself look ridiculous when it attempted to halt the Bosnian conflict__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in its relatively early stages when a decisive intervention might have succeeded. </span><span class="underline">**__As for dealing with a revived Russian threat, there is no military alliance in sight other than NATO that could do the job__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In a sense, </span><span class="underline">**__NATO today is Europe's defense__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Except for the American forces, </span><span class="underline">**__Western armies__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can no longer play an independent military role. They </span><span class="underline">**__are wedded to NATO structures and dependent on NATO, especially American, technology__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. (As a French general admitted in the Gulf War: "The Americans are our eyes and ears.") </span><span class="underline">**__If NATO were to dissolve--even if it were to be replaced by some European collective defense organization__**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> such as a beefed-up Western European Union--</span><span class="underline">**__it would invite chaos as every irredentist faction sought to profit from the sudden absence of the main guarantor of European stability__**</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">






















<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">We also ran ASPEC (nothing unique), T Military Presence means Combat Troops, and a plan flaw argument that only applied to the one team… Hard copies available by request…</span></span>