[[toc]]
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Case Negs</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">COIN Neg</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AT: Terrorism Advantage</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Non-unique—</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. Al-Qaeda and Taliban weakening</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AP, 12/16 (12/16/10, “Obama war review: Taliban, al-Qaida diminished”, http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jmZ1RU--DbUPUrT7patrOdDx7QmA?docId=74fb8331590243e8b2de3de6d4145e1d, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> WASHINGTON (AP) — President Barack Obama's...in Afghanistan, has seen much of its power halted and reversed over the last 12 months.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Terrorism decreasing globally—it’s a trend</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sigger, 9/23 (Jason, 9/23/10, “Mulling Over Terrorism Trends”, http://crooksandliars.com/jason-sigger/mulling-over-terrorism-trends, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I'm going to just suggest here...I'm just putting it out there as a possibility.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Don’t solve Al-Qaeda—too many alt causes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mark, 12/6 – SUNY Distinguished Professor in the Department of Geography at the State University of New York (David M., 12/6/10, “Saudi Arabia, worst for terrorism funding”, http://www.abc.net.au/pm/content/2010/s3086132.htm, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> MARK COLVIN: The United States secretary...source of funds and as a key transit point.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AT: Hegemony Advantage</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC Generic</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Decline inevitable—history proves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nye, December 2010 – Harvard University Distinguished Service Professor and Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations (Joseph, November/December 2010, “The Future of American Power”, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 89, Issue 6, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is currently fashionable...can lead to dangerous mistakes in policy.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC AT: Overstretch</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No overstretch</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nye, December 2010 – Harvard University Distinguished Service Professor and Sultan of Oman Professor of International Relations (Joseph, November/December 2010, “The Future of American Power”, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 89, Issue 6, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Some argue that the...but the trends are not as clear as the current gloomy mood suggests.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Overstretch</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND, overstretch contributes little to decline---domestic issues outweigh</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Altman and Haas, December 2010 – *Chair and CEO of Evercore Partners, Former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary AND President of the Council on Foreign Relations, Former Director of Policy Planning at the U.S. State Department (*Roger C. AND Richard N., November/December 2010, “American Profligacy and American Power”, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 89, Issue 6, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Just over two decades ago, the historian Paul Kennedy...country's debt addiction at their great peril.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AT: Counter Terrorism</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. Counter terrorism causes terrorist safe havens and turns Pakistan stability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Roggio 09 - an American commentator on military affairs, managing editor of The Long War Journal, published the online weblog The Fourth Rail, was an active duty soldier in the United States Army in the 1990 - (September 24, Bill “Counterterrorism at the expense of counterinsurgency will doom Afghanistan and Pakistan: US officials” http://www.longwarjournal.org/archives/2009/09/reliance_of_countert.php )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This alternative strategy...Army based along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Counter terrorism doesn’t solve</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">O’Hanlon, 10/30 – Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution—Specializing in Defense and Foreign Policy (Michael, 10/30/10, “On Afghanistan: Why Not "Plan A-"?”, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0930_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Long-range counterterrorism...nuclear state.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Turn—Drone Strikes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A. CT causes them</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagl, 10 – President of the Center for a New American Security, and Visiting Professor in the Department of War Studies at King’s College (John, “The proposer's closing remarks,” The Economist online debate, 5/21, http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/518)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There are no guarantees...the first place.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Turns Afghanistan stability and causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bergen, 09- senior fellow at the New America Foundation, [Peter “Two Arguments for What to Do in Afghanistan,” October 1st, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/10/01/two_arguments_for_what_to_do_in_afghanistan] HURWITZ</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> These flawed assumptions...time to work.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">4. Counter terrorism expands the insurgency—turns case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Danly, 09 - Iraq War veteran, managing director at the Institute for the Study of War, and international affairs fellow with the Council on Foreign Relations (James, “Victory in Afghanistan Requires Fully Supported Counterinsurgency,” 10/27, http://politics.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2009/10/27/victory-in-afghanistan-requires-fully-supported-counterinsurgency.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Compounding its incapacity...cannot help but aid the enemy's propaganda efforts.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">5. Counter terrorism causes Afghan and Pakistan collapse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bennet, 09 – research associate in national security studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. He recently returned from a research trip to the Horn of Africa. (Richard, “A Recipe for Somalia: A light footprint won’t work in Afghanistan. Just look at the Horn of Africa for all the reasons why not,” 10/13, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/13/is_afghanistan_the_new_somalia?page=full)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> If the United States were to start drawing...Afghanistan would only make that bad dream more likely.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Withdrawal DA</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Small footprint causes Taliban takeover, nuclear terrorism, and Indo-Pak war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kagan and Kagan, 09 - * former prof of military history @ West Point AND military historian (Fredrick W., Kimberly, “Don't Go Wobbly on Afghanistan”, 10/12/2009, http://www.aei.org/article/101110)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It is very likely that the insurgency...use of nuclear weapons.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">It also annihilates international credibility—that emboldens adversaries</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Twining, 09 (Dan, Senior Fellow for Asia – German Marshall Fund of the US, former Member of Sec. State. Condi Rice’s Policy Planning Staff, former Transatlantic Fellow and Dir. Of Foreign Policy Program – German Marshall Fund of the US, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”, 9-30, http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The surreal belief in some quarters...others who share neither our interests nor our values.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns Afghanistan Stability</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The plan leads to civil war, collapse of the government and a resurgent Taliban</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Curtis and Phillips 09 - Senior Research Fellow at The Heritage Foundation, focusing on analyzing America's economic, security, and political relationships with India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal AND* Senior Research Fellow for Middle Eastern Affairs at the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. He has written extensively on Middle Eastern issues and international terrorism since 1978 (December 2, Lisa and James, “President Obama's Afghanistan Speech: An Uncertain Message” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2009/12/President-Obamas-Afghanistan-Speech )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Given his clarity about the threat...targets of Islamist terrorists.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Taliban takeover</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nagl, 10 – President of the Center for a New American Security, and Visiting Professor in the Department of War Studies at King’s College (John, “The proposer's closing remarks,” The Economist online debate, 5/21, http://www.economist.com/debate/days/view/518)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Most insurgencies lose. Strong...Assistance Force (ISAF) to a purely advisory role by 2015.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Increases turmoil</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Maclean, 09 – Staff Writer Reuters (William, “Afghan exit seen worsening risks to region, West,” September 14, http://www.iiss.org/whats-new/iiss-in-the-press/press-coverage-2009/september-2009/afghan-exit-seen-worsening-risks-to-region-west/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Premature Western military...Pakistan, told delegates.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns Counter-Terrorism</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No counter-terrorism post plan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Tellis, 09 – senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, specializing in international security, defense, and Asian strategic issues (Ashley, “Reconciling With The Taliban? Toward an Alternative Grand Strategy in Afghanistan,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/reconciling_with_taliban.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> This problem could, of course, be...withdrawal from Afghanistan, confounds the imagination.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Taliban would overtake our bases and cut them off</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Riedel and O’Hanlon, 09 - Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy and Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings (Bruce, Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “Why We Can't Go Small In Afghanistan,” Brookings, September 24th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/0924_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The fundamental reason that a...building up Afghan state institutions such as the army and police. This approach will take time and perhaps more resources. But alas, in this kind of war, there is little choice.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns Hegemony</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And—that’s a bigger internal link than the aff into hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Tunç, 08 (Hakan Tunç, Professor of Political Science at Carleton University, Fall 2008, “Reputation and U.S. Withdrawal from Iraq,” Orbis, Vol. 52, No. 4, p. 657-669)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Reputation can be defined...vindicate U.S. sacrifices.13</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">They destroy coalition building---that's critical to hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Thayer, 06 (Professor of Defense and Strategic Studies @ Missouri State University [Thayer, Bradley A., “In Defense of Primacy.,” National Interest; Nov/Dec2006 Issue 86, p32-37])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> U.S. primacy--and the bandwagoning effect...A. Q. Khan proliferation network are in sharp relief to the typically toothless attempts by the UN to halt proliferation.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Credibility is the most important factor in maintaining heg</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Fettweis, 04 (Christopher, Professor at the U.S. Army War College, December 2004, “Resolute Eagle or Paper Tiger? Credibility, Reputation and the War on Terror,” online: http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p67147_index.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> If decision makers interpreted interests...has driven action in consistent and observable ways since the end of World War II.9</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns Pakistan Stability</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Power vacuum</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Rashid, 09 – former Pakistani revolutionary and journalist (10/27/09, Ahmed, The National Interest, “Trotsky in Baluchistan,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22352)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The threat the United States and the region...And a complete American departure would seal the region’s fate.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, it’s a high probability</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Biddle 09 – Roger Hertog Senior Fellow for Defense Policy, (July-August , Stephen, “Is It Worth It? The Difficult Case for War in Afghanistan”</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> http://www.the-american-interest.com/article.cfm?piece=617</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The danger of a nuclear al-Qaeda...the least-bad option we have.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Low credibility causes terrorism and Pakistani collapse</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Javed, 10 –from a Pakistani Newspaper (3/5/10, Bassam, from BBC Monitoring International Reports “Pakistan article discusses implications of US withdrawal from Afghanistan,” Gale group)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The exasperated American surge-and-exit strategy reflects the increased...Taleban, if it may try to at some point of time.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan causes Afghan instability—that spills over to Pakistan—only continued presence can solve</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kagan 09 – an American resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute (AEI), and a former professor of military history at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He earned a B.A. in Soviet and East European studies and a Ph.D. in Russian and Soviet military history, both from Yale University. (February 9, Frederick, “Planning Victory in Afghanistan: Nine principles the Obama administration should follow.” http://article.nationalreview.com/385240/planning-victory-in-afghanistan/frederick-w-kagan?page=6</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. UNDERSTAND WHY WE’RE THERE...representative government.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns Solvency</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Turns solvency but disad uniqueness causes the aff</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Maclean, 09 – Staff Writer Reuters (William, “Afghan exit seen worsening risks to region, West,” September 14, http://www.iiss.org/whats-new/iiss-in-the-press/press-coverage-2009/september-2009/afghan-exit-seen-worsening-risks-to-region-west/)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Premature Western military disengagement...representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, told delegates.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Turns Terrorism</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">No link between troop number and anti-Americanism—reduction generates more anti-Americanism and increases global terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Hegghammer, 09 *a senior research fellow at the Norwegian Defence Research Establishment (FFI) and an associate of the Initiative on Religion in International Affairs at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs (Thomas, “The big impact of small footprints”, 11/11/2009, Foreign Policy, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/19691/big_impact_of_small_footprints.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A growing number of people, led...For al Qaeda's propagandists, less can be more.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Faster</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Faster timeframe</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bergen, 09 - Senior Fellow and the co-director of the Counterterrorism and Counterinsurgency Initiative at the New America Foundation (8/1/09, Peter, “Two Arguments for What to Do in Afghanistan,” http://www.newamerica.net/publications/articles/2009/two_arguments_for_what_to_do_in_afghanistan_13510)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In August, President Obama laid...Afghan army are still so weak.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Indian Relations DA</span>=== 


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Relations with India are strong now</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economic Times, 9/9 (“US laying foundation for indispensable partnership with India: Clinton,”http://economictimes.indiatimes.com/articleshow/6524182.cms)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> WASHINGTON: The United States...our relationship to the next level," she said.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Plan kills US-Indian relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Ure, 11/5 – CNN National Security Producer (Laurie, “Afghanistan withdrawal could imperil US-India relations, McCain warns”, http://articles.cnn.com/2010-11-05/politics/india.relations_1_afghanistan-withdrawal-john-mccain-india?_s=PM:POLITICS, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> If the United States leaves...McCain said at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That turns case—critical to stability in South Asia</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Burns, 05 – Undersecretary for Political Affairs (Nicholas Burns, Under Secretary for Political Affairs, 9-8-05, Congressional Testimony before the House International Relations Committee, “The U.S. and India: An EmergingEntente?”http://www.nti.org/e_research/official_docs/dos/dos090805.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A strong democratic India is...the resonance all these programs have for both countries.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Overview</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And—any risk of a link turns case</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Debt, 09 (“Interests in Afghanistan and Pakistan Set to Collide, With Global Implications”, 12/30/09,http://oilprice.com/Geo-Politics/Middle-East/Interests-in-Afghanistan-and-Pakistan-Set-to-Collide-With-Global-Implications.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The West has vital interests...entire West and abandon everything.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Burns says relations stops Asian proliferation—the alternative is global nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cimbala, 10 - Prof. of Political Science @ Penn State, (Stephen, Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century, p. 117-8)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Failure to contain proliferation in Pyongyang...triggering a mistaken preemption.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, err neg—probability is high</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cirincione, 00 (Joseph, Director of the Non-Proliferation Project – Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Foreign Policy, “The Asian nuclear reaction chain”, Issue 118, Spring, Proquest)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The blocks would fall quickest...first combat use of a nuclear weapon since 1945.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Economy Impact</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Indian relations key to US economy</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nichols and Rupert, 11/6 – *White House correspondent for Bloomberg News AND Political Correspondent for Bloomberg News (*Hans AND James, 11/6/10, “Obama Visits India With Focus on Mending U.S. Economy”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-05/obama-heads-for-india-with-his-main-focus-on-trying-to-repair-u-s-economy.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Obama arrived in India today...first state visit of his presidency.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Economic collapse causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bearden, 00 (T.T, Director, Association of Distinguished American Scientists, http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> History bears out that desperate nations...and perhaps most of the biosphere, at least for many decades.</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Russian Relations Turn</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Uniqueness, link and internal link—current strategy is committed to improving Russian Relations through involvement in the war—withdrawal devastates relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Bhadrakumar, 11/6 – Career diplomat in the Indian Foreign Service (M K, 11/6/10, “Russia prods Afghan, Japanese wounds”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Central_Asia/LK06Ag01.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Any Russian babushka sitting in a city...helped define Russia's place and role on the issue of Afghanistan.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cohen, 10—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Cohen: The real concern...connect these dots.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Overview Cards</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We'll read a card on this—other nuclear wars like theirs don’t cause extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bostrum, 02 (Nick – professor of philosophy at Oxford and winner of the Gannon Award, Existential Risks, Journal of Evolution and Technology, p. http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A much greater...we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We also access all their impacts</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CFR Task Force, 06 [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Since the dissolution...on a positive track.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Uniqueness</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> START proves uniqueness high now</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Moscow Times, 12/24/10 (12/24/10, “Russian, US Presidents: START ratification is historic event”, http://english.ruvr.ru/2010/12/24/37619655.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The Russian and...the US Senate.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> More ev—in the context of Afghanistan relations are high</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Zibel, 09 (Eve, Russia, U.S. Cooperation on Afghanistan Shows 180 Degree Turn, 6 July 2009, http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2009/07/06/russia-cooperation-afghanistan-shows-degree-turn/, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A deal between...war we're fighting.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Links</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Independently, perception of abandonment kills Russian relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Hahn, 09 – senior researcher, Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, and visiting assistant professor, Graduate School of International Policy Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, California; senior researcher, Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (CETIS), Akribis Group, California; and analyst/consultant. (Gordon M, U.s. Russian relations and the war against jihadism, 5/21/9, http://www.tcf.org/publications/internationalaffairs/hahn.pdf p. 8-9)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> However, there is some...benefit the region’s jihadists.6</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Presence stops US containment of Russia—critical to relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Daly, 09—non-resident Fellow at John Hopkins Central Asia-Caucasus Institute. PhD in Russian and ME studies, U London. (John, America's Best Ally in Afghanistan – Russia, 16 October 2009, http://oilprice.com/Geo-Politics/Middle-East/America-s-Best-Ally-in-Afghanistan-Russia.html, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> While the U.S....to export Caspian oil.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> More ev—Russia wants to increase bilateral cooperation over Afghanistan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Tisdall, 10/26—assistant editor, the Guardian (Simon, Russian military could be drawn back into Afghanistan, 26 October 2010, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/oct/26/nato-afghanistan-russia-military, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Russia's military could...new "strategic concept" or mission statement.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Ext---Now Key</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Now is key—sets the stage for future relations</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shuster, 4/23 (Simon, 4/23/10, “As Russia Reasserts Its Sphere of Influence, the U.S. Makes No Objection”, http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=18316&Itemid=132, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Five years ago in...is reciprocating — much to Saakashvili's chagrin.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Link Turn</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Link only goes one way—Russia hates the plan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Blank, 09 – Research Professor of National Security Affairs at the Strategic Studies Institute at the United States Army War College (Stephen, 4/2/09, “WHAT DOES MOSCOW WANT IN AFGHANISTAN?”, http://www.bu.edu/phpbin/news-cms/news/?dept=732&id=53003, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Nevertheless, Russia has several...Soviet-Afghan war of 1979-89. (9)</span>


===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AT: Withdrawal Inevitable</span>=== 
====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Republicans are committed to maintaining troops in Afghanistan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AFP, 11/3 (11/3/10, “US Republicans to target Afghan withdrawal timetable”, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5jFqZ5HjLw79ipEQ9uELfrDDMaIHw?docId=CNG.a84306ebdc147800f85911b77a52d16b.2d1, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> WASHINGTON — Fresh from their historic elections romp, US Republicans...July 2011," said the aide.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And—more evidence—Republicans will continue presence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">DAWN.com, 11/4 (11/4/10, " Republicans want troops in Afghanistan to stay ", http://public.dawn.com/2010/11/05/republicans-want-troops-in-afghanistan-to-stay-2.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> WASHINGTON: Republican lawmakers...more equipment and resources to the war effort.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: 2014 Peception Arg</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> No chance of their perception args—we’ll commit past 2014</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Rivera, 1/11 (1/11/11, "Biden Assures Karzai of Aid From U.S. Beyond 2014", http://www.nytimes.com/2011/01/12/world/asia/12afghan.html?_r=1&emc=tnt&tntemail1=y, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> KABUL, Afghanistan — Vice President...want us to leave.”</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Winning the War</span>=== 

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC---IHSA State Updates</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Winning the war now—withdrawal eliminates all gains and causes Taliban take over
Gall, 3/8 – M.A. in International Relations from the City University of London (Carlotta, 3/8/11, "Petraeus Sees Military Progress in Afghanistan", http://www.nytimes.com/2011/03/09/world/asia/09petraeus.html?emc=tnt&tntemail1=y, KONTOPOULOS)
KABUL, Afghanistan — Besides well-reported advances in southern provinces...their job more difficult this spring,” he said.</span>


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC---Blake Updates</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We’ll win the war—most recent evidence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kovach, 12/10 (12/10/10, “Camp Pendleton Marines beat back insurgents”, http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/2010/dec/10/camp-pendleton-marines-beat-back-insurgents-sangin/, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">*Citing numerous Military Leaders that are more qualified than their authors</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Camp Pendleton Marines made advances...They have whittled down the enemy presence up there significantly,” Mills said.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC---Glenbrooks and Ohio Valley </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We are winning—</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. Recent reports</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Boot 10/2 – Senior Fellow at CFR (Max, 10/2/10, “Afghanistan: The Case for Optimism”, http://www.cfr.org/publication/22878/afghanistan.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The assumption that underlies all...fighting alongside a local government while working to reform it.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. The Afghan army is getting better</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O’Hanlon 10 - Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings(Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “A Bright Spot Among Afghan Woes,” Brookings, May 19th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0519_afghan_army_ohanlon.aspx]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A good way to understand what is going...of our exit strategy, so this good news should not be underrated.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Multiple reasons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O’Hanlon, 09 - Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, “In Afghanistan, The Odds Are With Us,” Brookings, December 14th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2009/1214_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> We face huge challenges in Afghanistan...this important mission.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Overview </span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, there’s no alternative—history proves Counterterrorism fails and only a risk COIN solves</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O’Hanlon, October/2010 – Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution—Specializing in Defense and Foreign Policy (Michael, September/October 2010, “Staying Power”, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 89, Issue 5, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> TALIBAN RESURGENCE, U.S. RESPONSE IN 2005...Taliban from retaking power and, in turn, of preventing al Qaeda and related groups from regaining substantial sanctuaries on Afghan soil.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, the most recent and conclusive ev goes neg</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O’Hanlon, October/2010 – Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution—Specializing in Defense and Foreign Policy (Michael, September/October 2010, “Staying Power”, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 89, Issue 5, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> BATTLEFIELD UPDATE THE U.S. APPROACH...percent in 2009 and less than 20 percent in 2010.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Afghanistan Army </span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, here’s the most recent evidence—it goes neg</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O’Hanlon, October/2010 – Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution—Specializing in Defense and Foreign Policy (Michael, September/October 2010, “Staying Power”, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 89, Issue 5, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> TRAINING AND MENTORING IN THE war's early years...Curbing that corruption and weakness is the crux of the United States' challenge.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Army is improving, quality and quantity- if this happens we will win the war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grant 10—Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society. MA with honors in history, U Edinborough (George, Succeeding in Afghanistan, http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The final component without...commitment to enhancing domestic capacity continues.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Quality is increasing—that’s key</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Michaels, 8/11 – Military Writer for USA Today and Author (Jim, 8/11/10, “Afghan troops reach 240,000 goal early”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/afghanistan/2010-08-11-1Abenchmark11_ST_N.htm, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> NATO has reached its goal of...called "the surge."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Recruitment and quality increasing</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Fair, 10 – assistant professor in the Center for Peace and Security Studies (CPASS), within Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service. Prior to joining Georgetown, she served as a senior political scientist with the RAND Corporation where she has done two tours of duty (1997- 2004; 2007-2009), July 2010 (C. Christine, “Obama’s New “Af-Pak” Strategy: Can “Clear, Hold, Build, Transfer” Work?” The Afghanistan Papers no. 6 The Centre for International Governance Innovation http://www.cigionline.org/sites/default/files/Afghanistan_Paper_6.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There have been successes, however, since 2002. The ANA...mission, reported that in the first seven days of December more than 2,695 recruits signed up, compared to 831 in September (Flaherty, 2009).</span>




====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Corruption </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Corruption decreasing—it’s a trend</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O’Hanlon, October/2010 – Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution—Specializing in Defense and Foreign Policy (Michael, September/October 2010, “Staying Power”, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 89, Issue 5, Galileo, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CORRUPTION, CONTRACTING, AND KANDAHAR...These proceedings constitute a promising but still modest trend.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Status quo solves legitimacy and corruption</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Kagan, 09 [Frederick, In Afghanistan, Real leverage Starts with More Troops, Washington Post, American Institute for Public Policy Research, November 27th, http://www.aei.org/article/101363</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The president will soon...networks of people misusing their power.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Training, police and soldiers solve corruption</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Graham 5/18 [Ian, Emerging Media @ DoD, “Pay Raises, Training Combat Afghan Corruption,” http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=59235]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Corruption has constituted a viable...asked him how he had the courage to come forward, and he said, ‘I do this for my faith, my family and my country. I'm staying here.’”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even if the government is corrupt, polls show public doesn’t think that</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O’Hanlon and Sherjan 10 - Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings AND President of Aid Afghanistan for Education (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy @ Brookings, Hassina, President of Aid Afghanistan for Education, “The Tide May Be Turning In Afghanistan,” Brookings, February 16th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0216_afghanistan_ohanlon.aspx)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> One of us (Sherjan) helped start girls education...psychological trend is critical.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Minerals solve corruption</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> O’Hanlon 10 - Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy @ Brookings (Michael, Director of Research and Senior Fellow in Foreign Policy @ Brookings, "Deposits Could Aid Ailing Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 16th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0616_afghanistan_minerals_ohanlon.aspx)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Second, the mineral deposits: The Defense Department’s...indeed reason for hope in Afghanistan.</span>




====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Marjah </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Coin wins Marjah</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Van Ess, 10/30 – M.A. in Diplomacy and Military Studies from Hawaii Pacific University (Brett, 10/30/10, “The Fight for Marjah: Recent Counterinsurgency Operations in Southern Afghanistan”, Small Wars Journal, p. 30-31, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Marjah is no longer the hub of...establish in control in essential terrain in southern Afghanistan.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That’s key to the Taliban</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bokhari, 10 – *Fellow at the Center for the Study of Islam and Democracy and the Secretary and Interim Treasurer of the AMSS, VP of Strategic Analysis at STRATFOR, *Director of Military Analysis at STRATFOR (*Kamran, Peter Zeihan, *Nathan Huges, February 2010, Stratfor, “The Meaning of Marjah”, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100216_meaning_marjah, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Why Marjah? The key is...critical node in their operations.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And—Marjah is the Taliban homeland—maintaining it would be a major psychological and monetary blow</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Major General Mills, 4/27 (Richard, 4/27/10, “Marines Stabilize Afghan Town Of Marjah”, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=126297574, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Major Gen. MILLS: There...the hearts and try to turn the people away. And to date, that everything has not worked.</span>




====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Regions </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We're winning in key regions—</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A. Sangin</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Grant 10—Governance, Strategy & Terrorism Section Director at The Henry Jackson Society. MA with honors in history, U Edinborough (George, Succeeding in Afghanistan, http://henryjacksonsociety.org/cms/harriercollectionitems/Succeeding%20in%20Afghanistan.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Note – Sangin = in the Pashtun region, population = 92% Pashtun</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Though the new strategy is still at an early phase...it offers the possibility of lasting - as opposed to merely temporary - progress.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">B. Kandahar</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Gearan 10—AP nat. sec. writer (Anne, Gates sees progress in tour of Afghan war zone, 3 September 2010, http://www.wtop.com/?nid=385&sid=2042954, AMiles)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates...less intimidation from insurgents and local governing councils would be less dominated by local powerbrokers.</span>




====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Pakistan Border Crossing</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This isn't an aff arg—troops are key to prevent the return of terrorists and instability to Afghanistan
Gall, 3/8 – M.A. in International Relations from the City University of London (Carlotta, 3/8/11, "Petraeus Sees Military Progress in Afghanistan", http://www.nytimes.com/2011/03/09/world/asia/09petraeus.html?emc=tnt&tntemail1=y, KONTOPOULOS)
Many of the Taliban...havens in Afghanistan.</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: Comparisons to the Soviet Union </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Their authors have it wrong—their references to the Soviets for why COIN fails are based on faulty comparisons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Polaris, 10/28 (10/28/10, “Are Democracies Inherently Better at Defeating Insurgencies?”, http://polaris.nationalinterest.in/2010/10/28/are-democracies-inherently-better-at-defeating-insurgencies/, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> In an interview with the BBC, former Soviet leader...structure. That may sound simple, but it is surprising how often it is overlooked.</span>



==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">South Korea Neg</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Victory DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">War with North Korea is inevitable this year—the US will win now</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Manasan 10 – graduate student in the Master of Journalism program at Ryerson University (Althea, “Pressure to bolster North Korean leader makes war inevitable, analyst says,” National Post, May 28, http://www.nationalpost.com/news/Pressure+bolster+Korean+leader+makes+inevitable+analyst/3085070/story.html, Crowe)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> While some experts believe...Korea would lose it.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US ground forces in Korea are critical to the hold the line while reinforcements arrive—early North Korean successes would prevent the US from landing reinforcements</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> GLOBAL SECURITY.ORG, 10 (“OPLAN 5027 Major Theater War – West,” April 27, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/oplan-5027.htm)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Pyongyang can credibly threaten the prompt destruction of Seoul with conventional arms alone. The...with substantial Army resources quickly conducting over-the-shore operations.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Failure to reinforce South Korea and win the war crushes American hegemony</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> GREEN 5-27 (Stephen, writer and broadcaster, “North vs. South Korea: How Bad Could a War Get?” 5-27-2010, http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/north-vs-south-korea-how-bad-could-a-war-get/?singlepage=true)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> It’s almost certain that the South could handle the...out war” reaches historical highs, the signal being sent is most un-American. “Tread on Me.”</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Nuke war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> KHALILZAD, 95 (Zalmay, RAND analyst and now U.S. ambassador to Iraq, The Washington Quarterly)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Under the third option...would therefore be more conducive to global stability than a bipolar or a multipolar balance of power system.</span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Naval Presence Turn</span>=== 


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Leaving our naval presence turns case –</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. Naval and Air is enough to draw the U.S. in—already made battle plans</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> NYT, 03 - "South Korea, in Surprise, Demands U.S. Forces Stay in Place" March 7. http://www.nytimes.com/2003/03/07/international/asia/08CND-KORE.html</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> SEOUL, South Korea, March 7 — Officials...defense arrangements.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Takes out Regionalism—US uses naval presence to show commitment to South Korea</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> AP, 10 (Associated Press. US carrier to visit S.Korea ahead of joint exercise http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20100719/pl_afp/skoreankoreausmilitary)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A US aircraft carrier...series of exercises we will begin conducting with RoK forces," he said.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Extensions </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Naval and Air exercises increase tension with North Korea</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Sydney Morning Herald, 10 (“S.Korea, US end naval drills” http://news.smh.com.au/breaking-news-world/skorea-us-end-naval-drills-20100728-10vfr.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A full-scale US and South Korean...North Korea evade existing sanctions," State Department spokesman Philip Crowley said Monday.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Intended for deterrence—that triggers the aff</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Associated Press, 10 Washington (“White House: naval drills a deterrent to North Korea” http://www.spacedaily.com/reports/White_House_naval_drills_a_deterrent_to_North_Korea_999.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The United States said...spreading nuclear arms. The measures also are designed to block money laundering and other illicit activities.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">More ev—signals commitment to South Korea—turns both advantages</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> AFP, 10 – American Forces Press Service (“Gates to Underscore U.S. Commitment to South Korea”, July 19th 2010, http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=60058, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates arrived...Gates also will participate in an observance of the 60th anniversary of the start of the Korean War during his visit.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">More ev—meant as a signal of deterrence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Benoit, 10 – Pentagon correspondent for Agence Frace Press (Daphne, “Navy exercises to send 'signal' to N.Korea: Gates”, July 19th 2010, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5irhASPnxPUwEBv71DQFSFYeJqnng, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> CAMP CASEY, South Korea — Upcoming US and South Korean...security of the peninsula as well as to the region, and demonstrate our steadfast commitment to the Republic of Korea (South Korea)."</span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Alliance DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Obama and Leading General Sharp have just committed to long-term presence in Korea as part of furthering the US-ROK alliance</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> American Forces Press Service 9. July 15. "North Korean provocations underscore importance of U.S., South Korean alliance" http://www.af.mil/news/story.asp?id=123158762</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But noting North Korea's recent short-range missile launches...reporters. "The majority of those forces will be in Korea on three-year accompanied tours."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A unilateral decision to withdraw would collapse the ROK-US alliance – alienates public, spurs political backlash and anti-Americanism – empirics prove</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bruce Klingner 4 - Senior Research Fellow at Heritage Foundation's Asia Studies center. 20 years of intelligence research for the CIA and DIA. Deputy Chief for Korea in CIA Directorate of Intelligence. Master's in National Security Strategy @ National War College. Master's in strategic intelligence @ Defense Intelligence College. BA in Poli Sci @ Middlebury. Third degree black belt in TKD, first degree black belt in hapkido and tauk kong moo sool, watch out. Asia Times. "Confusion in the South Korean Ranks". June 17. http://agonist.org/story/2004/6/16/95220/2051Klingner</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A litany of US announcements on...about by the maturing nature of the alliance, with Seoul seeking to play a larger role.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">A weakened alliance or military presence increases the chance of a North Korean strike – they’ll think they can win</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Michael O'Hanlon 6- MA and MSE in Physical Sciences; Ph.D in public and international affairs. Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy. "South Korea: A Disunited Allied Force?" Brookings Institute.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The decision on changing the command should,...Its view is basically that it has to win the unification struggle or the regime will cease to exist.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">North Korean aggression causes U.S. nuclear retaliation---sparks global conflict –</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Horween 9 - Matt ,certified public accountant and former commissioned U.S. Foreign Service Officer for the U.S. Agency for International Development, , “Time to Remove U.S. Troops From South Korea”, http://www.thestreet.com/story/10555800/opinion-time-to-remove-us-troops-from-south-korea.html accessed july 18 2010.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> If North Korea decides to...troops or let them just rot there as we did under Carter in Iran or a better example the Philippines in World War II.</span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">South Korean Economy DA</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Uniqueness—South Korean economy is strong now but downturn is possible</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Interactive Investor 6/1 (“South Korea June exports top forecasts; inflation eases,” http://www.iii.co.uk/news/?type=afxnews&articleid=7970684&action=article) Calum</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> South Korean exports rose more than expected in June...expected despite widespread concerns that Europe's debt crisis could hit the global economy.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US Withdrawal devastates South Korea’s economy – three reasons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> 1. Trade Routes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Seung-Hwan Kim 3 - Professor of international affairs at Myongji University. The Washington Quarterly Winter 2003. "Anti-Americanism in Korea."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> US presence in SK...major Asian powers have historically sought regional hegemony.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. Investor confidence</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Eberstadt et. al, 07 -- *Ph.D. in Political Economy and Government from Harvard, Political economist, Senior Adviser to the National Board of Asian Research, President of The National Bureau of Asian Research -- Policy Think Tank, *Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University, Research Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, *Senior Vice President for Political and Security Affairs at The National Bureau of Asian Research -- Policy Think Tank, Senior Project Director and Director of the Pyle Center for Northeast Asian Studies at the National Bureau of Asian Research -- Policy Think Tank (*Nicholas, Richard J., *Aaron L., Christopher, *Roy D., Travis, "A World without the U.S.‑ROK Alliance: Thinking about 'Alternative Futures'", National Bureau of Asian Research, September 11th 2007, June 24th 2010, p. 22, KONTOPOULOS) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A less pleasant scenario for the economy...South Korea would perforce be a less competitive platform in the world economy.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">3. Defense spending</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Jeon, 06 – Colonel of the Republic of Korea Army (Sang Jo, "Transforming the ROK-US Alliance", U.S. Army War College, March 15th 2006, June 25th 2010, p. 2-3, ) PDF</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> USFK’s primary mission is, along...would be enormous—in the billions of dollars.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Korean economic decline leads to an arms race, igniting nuclear conflict between major powers</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Seung-Hwan Kim 3 - Professor of international affairs at Myongji University. The Washington Quarterly Winter 2003. "Anti-Americanism in Korea."</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A Korea faced with an economic dilemma ...and Japan, or the Koguryo dispute between Korea and China.</span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Taiwan DA</span>=== 


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1NC </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">US withdrawal or a ruptured US-ROK alliance would cause Taiwan to haphazardly pursue independence – narrowing window of opportunity</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Eberstadt, et al. 7 - Nicholas Eberstadt: American Enterprise Institute and The National Bureau of Asian Research, Richard J. Ellings: The National Bureau of Asian Research, Aaron L. Friedberg: Princeton University and The National Bureau of Asian Research, Christopher Griffin: American Enterprise Institute, Roy D. Kamphausen: The National Bureau of Asian Research, Travis Tanner: The National Bureau of Asian Research "A World without the U.S.‑ROK Alliance: Thinking about “Alternative Futures”" September 10-11. National Bureau of Asian Research.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Although the timing of a rupture in U.S.-ROK...the region.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China would intervene regardless of any US deterrent, drawing in the US</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Christensen, 1 (Thomas J, Associate Professor of Political Science and a member of the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, “Posing Problems Without Catching Up,” International Security, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/international_security/v025/25.4christensen.html, NJ)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Even if the Chinese programs have ...into a corner by supporting Taiwan's legal independence now or in the future.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Global Nuclear War</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lee J. Hunkovic 08 ( “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America” American Military University http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A war between China, Taiwan and the...this study.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Impact Calc---Magnitude </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This is the worst-case scenario for China War – either goes nuclear or leads to protracted war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lee J. Hunkovic 08 ( “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America” American Military University http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> World News Connection (2006) addresses...forces in Taiwan in the case of a conventional war.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Impact Calc---Probability </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Taiwan-China war is the most probable impact – escalation is politically necessary for the CCP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shirk, 08 – Ho Miu Lam Professor of China and Pacific Relations at the University of California-San Diego (Susan, China Fragile Superpower, p. 2, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Taiwan is an issue that arouses...force to avoid domestic humiliation if they believed their political survival depended on it.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Strait Times Impact Card </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cross-strait war escalates to full-scale US-China-Taiwan war</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Strait Times 2k (The Straits Times (Singapore), “No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, 2000, L/N)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The doomsday scenario THE...nuclear Armaggedon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Internal Link Comparison </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Taiwan war is the only likely scenario for war with China – comparative evidence, five reasons</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> David A. Danikowski 1 - US Army Command & General Staff College, School of Advanced Military Studies. "Korean Unification and the U.S. Army" 1/5/2001</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> China sees itself as the regional power. “It is one...Northeast Asia benefits China in a zero sum game of regional political clout. “China is benefiting from intensified local</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC Uniqueness/Link </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cross-strait relations are SLOWLY stabilizing now – elections, resulting economic, diplomatic, and security agreements</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard C. Bush III 3/18 - Senior fellow in Foreign Policy, Director of Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies. Two decades of work throughout Congress, Intelligence, and the US State Department. Ph.D, M.Phil, MA @ Columbia U; B.A. @ Lawrence U. Brookings Institute. "China-Taiwan: Recent Economic, Political, and Military Developments Across the Strait, and Implications for the United States" http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2010/0318_china_economy_bush.aspx</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The 2008 Transition</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> The situation improved markedly...the previous one and understands that resolution will be a long-term process.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">However, any move that would rule out China’s unification goals will spark conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Richard C. Bush III 3/18 - Senior fellow in Foreign Policy, Director of Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies. Two decades of work throughout Congress, Intelligence, and the US State Department. Ph.D, M.Phil, MA @ Columbia U; B.A. @ Lawrence U. Brookings Institute. "China-Taiwan: Recent Economic, Political, and Military Developments Across the Strait, and Implications for the United States" http://www.brookings.edu/testimony/2010/0318_china_economy_bush.aspx</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Can Beijing Live with the Status-Quo?</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> There is no question that China...danger of Taiwan independence is low, the leadership can wait for political integration.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2NC AT: China Won't Fight Over Taiwan </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Your impact defense doesn’t apply – nationalism forces Chinese aggression</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Shirk, 08 – Ho Miu Lam Professor of China and Pacific Relations at the University of California-San Diego (Susan, China Fragile Superpower, p. 11, Google Books, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> But in a crisis —or when dealing with a well-publicized issue...military confrontation.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China would fight – nationalism</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Christensen, 02 – Associate Professor of Political Science at MIT and a China specialist (Thomas J., “The Contemporary Security Dilemma: Deterring a Taiwan Conflict”, Washington Quarterly, Vol. 25, No. 4, Autumn 2002, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Given the Taiwan issue...international stage, during the leadership transition currently under way in China.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China will attack Taiwan if it tries to secede or peaceful reunification fails – Anti-Secession Law of 2005</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lee J. Hunkovic 08 ( “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America” American Military University http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf )</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Numerous works of literature exist, pertaining...possible outcomes from the perspective of each actor.</span>



===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Advantage Answers</span>=== 


====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Regionalism </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Leaving troops in Japans means it has no incentive to improve relations with South Korea</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bandow, 08 - Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books (Doug, “Time to Tell Irresponsible Allies No Thanks,” 9/20, http://original.antiwar.com/doug-bandow/2008/09/19/time-to-tell-irresponsible-allies-no-thanks/</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Six decades have passed since World War II...community rather than spoiled teenagers, and provide responsible leadership in East Asia.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Japan/South Korea relations is key to getting regionalism off the ground</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Auslin, 05 (Michael, Teaches Japanese History – Yale and Dir. Project on Japan-U.S. Relations, Orbis, “Japan and South Korea: The New East Asian Core”, 49:3, Summer, ScienceDirect)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> A roadmap for Tokyo and Seoul's security cooperation...other states sharing those values, particularly Taiwan and the Philippines.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, leaving Troops in Japan prevents it from getting involved in regionalism – also means US troops still get drawn into any Korean conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bandow, 10 - senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire (Doug, “Japan Can Defend Itself”, 5/12, http://nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23390)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Whatever the justifications of this arrangement during the Cold War...Alas, so far the North has proved to be surprisingly resilient, so the Marines might wait a long time to undertake this mission.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">We Shift the troops to Japan</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Espiritu, 06 – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Another strategy Japan could...repositioned in Japan.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">China worried about US presence in Taiwan and Japan, not Korea</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> RAND Corporation, 05 (Keith Crane, Roger Cliff, Evan Medeiros, James Mulvenon, AND William Overholt, 2005, “Modernizing China’s military opportunities and constraints”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2005/RAND_MG260-1.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> An assessment of PLA threat perceptions begins by...outbreak of a conflict.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">And, increasing Japanese reliance on the US crushes offshore balancing in Asia</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Bandow, 09 - senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire (Doug, “Tokyo Drift,” National Interest Online, 8/31, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=10496)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Along the way, the United States and Tokyo engaged...responsibilities over to Japan, which would benefit both countries.</span>



====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">North Korean Proliferation </span>==== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">1. North Korea prolif is slow</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Thompson, 09 – Editor for TIME (Mark, “Will Offshore Searches Slow North Korean Nukes?”, Times Magazine, June 17th 2009, http://www.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1905098,00.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Under last week's U.N. resolution...that the North Koreans could sucker us into a confrontation over a load of Kewpie dolls or something equally nonthreatening."</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">2. North Korea will continue to nuclearize – our ev is comparative with countries who gave up</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Lavelle, 09 – Ph.D. in European Economic History from UC Davis (Peter, “North Korea and the Inevitable”, Russia Today, May 29th 2009, http://www.russiatoday.com/About_Us/Blogs/Untimely_Thoughts/2009-05-29.html, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Is it inevitable that the world will...North Korea doesn’t.</span>




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>