[[toc]]
=Cite Requests= 
For cites email Mark Bibas: [[mailto:db8erbibas@gmail.com|db8erbibas@gmail.com]]
=Affirmative= 

==<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**GDS 1AC:**</span>== 
<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;"> </span>
Plan: The United States federal government should terminate the presence of its navy in the Republic of Korea.

Advantage 1 is Jeju Island:

<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">The Times Record, 10 </span>__****<span style="color: black;">(“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2,</span>**<span style="color: black;"><span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to __…__on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is uniquely important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Jeju Weekly, 9 </span>__**<span style="color: black;">(November 26, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426]]</span>)</span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">Some of __Jeju’s treasures are__clearly visible, …. It is not just __<span style="background-color: yellow;">imperative</span>__for environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Red Orbit, 10 </span>__**<span style="color: black;">(Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26,<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/]]</span>) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and …</span>__<span style="color: black;">who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world." </span>

**<span style="color: black;">And – Extinction</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Craig, 3</span>__**<span style="color: black;">(Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis)</span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for …__wherever possible__ - even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Advantage two: China</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Deteriorating relations between the U.S. and China are paving the way for conflict. In particular, strike-group naval exercises in the waters surrounding South Korea guarantee confrontation.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Rozoff, 8/16</span>__**<span style="color: black;">/2010 (Rick, Author and Geopolitical Analyst, “U.S.-China Conflict: From War of Words to Talk of War”, Eurasia Review,<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.eurasiareview.com/201008157048/us-china-conflict-from-war-of-words-to-talk-of-war.html]]</span>) </span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">Relations between the U.S. and China have been steadily deteriorating</span>__<span style="color: black;"> …__The noose is tightening around China and the nation’s military knows it.__ </span>

**<span style="color: black;">And – These naval exercises doom our ability to influence China’s emergence towards a source of stability and peace in the region. Using our naval presence in South Korea to support a maritime containment strategy of China destroys relations and will dangerously escalate tensions.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Reuters, 8/13</span>__**<span style="color: black;">/2010 (Chinese Admiral Says U.S. Drill Courts Confrontation, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67B11W20100813?type=politicsNews]]</span>) </span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">A senior Chinese</span>____<span style="color: black;"> military <span style="background-color: yellow;">strategist called</span> planned <span style="background-color: yellow;">U.S. naval</span> …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> can see that this carries something of a warning to China," wrote Yang. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">And – China’s rise as a regional power is inevitable – the question is whether the U.S. and China cooperate to resolve global problems or compete through adherence to out-dated concepts of deterrence. Only the plan facilitates a healthy, stable relationship that is necessary to avoid all-out war.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Yi, 8/13</span>__**<span style="color: black;">/2010 (Yang, Rear Admiral and Former Director of the Institute for Strategic Studies at the People’s Liberation Army National Defense University, Cold War Mindset Harms Peace, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hrana.org/articles.asp]]</span>) </span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">The</span>____<span style="color: black;"> recent <span style="background-color: yellow;">decision by the U</span></span>__<span style="color: black;">nited __<span style="background-color: yellow;">S</span>__tates __<span style="background-color: yellow;">to involve</span> its …__ __if the two powers really want <span style="background-color: yellow;">to avoid confrontation.</span>__ </span>
**<span style="color: black;">And – Failure to allow China to rise peacefully ensures catastrophic nuclear war.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Eland, 5</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Ivan, Coexisting With A Rising China, April 11, HTTP:WWW.INDEPENDENT.ORG/NEWSROOM/ARTICLE.ASP?ID=1494) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">Instead of emulating the policies of pre-World War I Britain … future catastrophicwar or even a nuclear conflagration.</span>__

**<span style="color: black;">And – Escalation is guaranteed. US-China war causes extinction.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Straits Times, 2k</span>__**<span style="color: black;">(June 25) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">Conflict </span>__<span style="color: black;">on such a scale __would embroil other countries__ far and ….__we would see the destruction of civilisation__. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">And – Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Reuters, 8/17</span>__**<span style="color: black;">/2010 (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817]]</span>) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">The game of military bluff that China and the U</span>__<span style="color: black;">nited __S__tates __…__ the People's Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">And – Independent of direct U.S.-China war, good relations prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict throughout Asia</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Conable and Lampton, 93</span>__**<span style="color: black;">(Barber B, President Emeritus of the World Bank, David, President of the National Committee, China: the Coming Power, Foreign Affairs, December/January, Lexis)</span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">Regionally American interests are both numerous and … of the increasing importance the region attaches to building positive ties to the P.R.C.</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Dibb, 1</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP:WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)</span></span>
<span style="color: black; display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">The __areas of maximum danger and … Forum <span style="background-color: yellow;">have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises.</span>__</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">And – Their deterrence disad is a non-starter. Deterrence will inevitably fail between the U.S. and China – we can either peacefully move away from attempting to deter China now, or we must accept the inevitable, catastrophic collapse of our deterrent relationship in the short-term future.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Sayers, 10</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (Eric, Master of Science Candidate in the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University, “Miliatry Dissuasion: A Framework for Influencing PLA Procurement Trends”, NDU Press, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ndu.edu/press/military-dissuasion.html]]</span>) </span>
__<span style="background-color: yellow; color: black;">The PLA</span>____<span style="color: black;"> believes America's ability to project power is …</span>__<span style="color: black;"> observed almost a decade ago, __<span style="background-color: yellow;">deterrence</span>__ alone __<span style="background-color: yellow;">cannot suffice <span style="background-color: yellow;">as the guiding mantra of U.S. defense strategy in the Asia-Pacific.</span></span>__7 </span>

**<span style="color: black;">And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable.</span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Shambaugh, 5</span>__**<span style="color: black;"> (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter) </span>
__<span style="color: black;">Some observers </span>__<span style="color: black;">in the United States, however, __see China’s Asian …__ __These are essential points to bear in mind when considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs.__</span></span><span style="display: block; line-height: 14.25pt;"> </span>
==<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">Blue Key 1AC:</span>== 
The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Times Record, 10</span>__ (“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2, http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt)</span>
I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to __…__ on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.


And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is uniquely important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem 
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Jeju Weekly, 9</span>__ (November 26, http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426)</span>
Some of __Jeju’s treasures are__ clearly visible, …. It is not just __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">imperative</span>__ for environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.


And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest 
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Red Orbit, 10</span>__ (Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26, http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/)</span>
__Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and …__ who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."

And – Extinction
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Craig, 3</span>__ (Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis)</span>
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for …<span class="underline0"> wherever possible </span>- even if a few fishers go out of business as a result. 

And – The Jeju base will trigger an uncontrollable naval arms race throughout the Asia-Pacific region ensuring conflict. 
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Cha 10</span>__ (Kyoungeun, Foreign Policy in Focus, “Jeju and a Naval Arms Race in Asia”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/jeju_and_a_naval_arms_race_in_asia)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The Jeju naval base is a likely bone of … could escalate into a naval arms race in the Asia-Pacific region.</span>__

And – A naval arms race in Northeast Asia would guarantee catastrophic miscalculations. 
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Strait Times 9</span>__ (November 18, http://www.asianewsnet.net/news.php?id=8691&sec=3)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A naval arms race</span>__ that __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">could have </span>____…__, he warned: __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">"The consequence of the navy's build-up is the increasing probability of accidents</span>__ and incidents at sea."

And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation. 
<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Dibb, 1</span> (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP://WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)// </span>
//The <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">areas of maximum danger</span> and …</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises</span>__.//

//And – A Jeju naval base would collapse peace on the Korean Peninsula.//
//<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">UNCPD 7</span> (United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia, May 22, “The establishment of a naval base in Jeju would lead to the militarization on Jeju Island”, http://blog.peoplepower21.org/English/19790)</span>//
//Our concerns that __the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">establishment … of Jeju will</span> help <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">make the</span>__ residents' lives and furthermore the __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Korea Peninsula better.</span>__//

//And – This will destroy the planet//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Africa News, 99</span>__ (“Third World War: Watch the Koreas”, October 25, Lexis)</span>//
//<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">If there is one place</span></span> today <span class="underline0">…</span> normalising relations with North Korea.//



//<span class="cite">Advantage two: China </span>//
//Deteriorating relations between the U.S. and China are paving the way for conflict. In particular, strike-group naval exercises in the waters surrounding South Korea guarantee confrontation.//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Rozoff, 8/16</span>__/2010 (Rick, Author and Geopolitical Analyst, “U.S.-China Conflict: From War of Words to Talk of War”, Eurasia Review, http://www.eurasiareview.com/201008157048/us-china-conflict-from-war-of-words-to-talk-of-war.html)</span>//
//__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Relations between the U.S. and China have been steadily deteriorating</span>__ …__The noose is tightening around China and the nation’s military knows it.__//

//And – These naval exercises doom our ability to influence China’s emergence towards a source of stability and peace in the region. Using our naval presence in South Korea to support a maritime containment strategy of China destroys relations and will dangerously escalate tensions.//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Reuters, 8/13</span>__/2010 (Chinese Admiral Says U.S. Drill Courts Confrontation, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67B11W20100813?type=politicsNews)</span>//
//__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A senior Chinese</span>__ __military <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">strategist called</span> planned <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">U.S. naval </span>…__ can see that this carries something of a warning to China," wrote Yang.//

//<span class="cite">And – China’s rise as a regional power is inevitable – the question is whether the U.S. and China cooperate to resolve global problems or compete through adherence to out-dated concepts of deterrence. Only the plan facilitates a healthy, stable relationship that is necessary to avoid all-out war. </span>//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Yi, 8/13</span>__/2010 (Yang, Rear Admiral and Former Director of the Institute for Strategic Studies at the People’s Liberation Army National Defense University, Cold War Mindset Harms Peace, http://www.hrana.org/articles.asp)</span>//
//__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The</span>__ __recent <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">decision by the U</span>__nited __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">S</span>__tates __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to involve </span>____its …__ __if the two powers really want <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">to avoid confrontation.</span>__//

//<span class="cite">And – Failure to allow China to rise peacefully ensures catastrophic nuclear war. </span>//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Eland, 5</span>__ (Ivan, Coexisting With A Rising China, April 11, HTTP:</span>//WWW.INDEPENDENT.ORG/NEWSROOM/ARTICLE.ASP?ID=1494)
<span class="underline0">Instead of emulating the policies of pre-World War I Britain … future <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">catastrophic</span> war or even a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">nuclear conflagration.</span></span>

And – Escalation is guaranteed. US-China war causes extinction. 
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Straits Times, 2k</span>__ (June 25)</span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Conflict</span> </span>on such a scale <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">would embroil other countries</span> </span>far and ….<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> we would see the destruction of civilisation</span></span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">.</span>

And – Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict 
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Reuters, 8/17</span>__/2010 (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The game of military bluff that China and the U</span>__nited __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">S</span>__tates __…__ the People's Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday.

And – Specifically, sending the USS George Washington aircraft carrier into the yellow sea would collapse Sino-U.S. relations.
<span class="cite"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Washington Times 10</span> (July 21, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/jul/21/inside-the-ring-300362848/)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Chinese government and … Sea,"</span>__ Gen. Zhu said. 

And – Independent of direct U.S.-China war, good relations prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict throughout Asia 
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Conable and Lampton, 93</span>__ (Barber B, President Emeritus of the World Bank, David, President of the National Committee, China: the Coming Power, Foreign Affairs, December/January, Lexis)</span>
Regionally American interests are both numerous and … of the increasing importance the region attaches to building positive ties to the P.R.C.

And – Bad relations will cause China to militarize space. 
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Pike, 98</span>__ (John, Director of the Space Policy Project with the Federation of American Scientists, FNS, June 25, Lexis)</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="color: windowtext;">We live in a real world in which the art of decision making lies not in choosing obvious and …</span><span class="underline0"> and a critical player in the effort to extend human presence to the Moon, Mars, and beyond</span><span style="color: windowtext;">.</span></span></span>
Extinction. 
<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Mitchell, 1</span>__ (Gordon, Associate Professor of Communication at the University Pittsburgh, Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads, ISIS Briefing, No. 6, July, HTTP://WWW.ISISUK.DEMON.CO.UK/0811/ISIS/UK/BMD/NO6_PAPER.HTML)// </span>
//A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace …<span class="underline0"> a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen</span>.//

//And – Their deterrence disad is a non-starter. Deterrence will inevitably fail between the U.S. and China – we can either peacefully move away from attempting to deter China now, or we must accept the inevitable, catastrophic collapse of our deterrent relationship in the short-term future.//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Sayers, 10</span>__ (Eric, Master of Science Candidate in the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University, “Miliatry Dissuasion: A Framework for Influencing PLA Procurement Trends”, NDU Press, http://www.ndu.edu/press/military-dissuasion.html)</span>//
//__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">The PLA</span>__ __believes America's ability to project power is …__ observed almost a decade ago, __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">deterrence</span>__ alone __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">cannot suffice as the guiding mantra of U.S. defense strategy in the Asia-Pacific.</span>__7//

//And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable.//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Shambaugh, 5</span>__ (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter)</span>//

//<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Some</span> observers </span>in the United States, however, <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">see China’s Asian </span>… These are essential points to bear in mind when considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs. </span>//

==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2ac China Adv. </span>== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: silver; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Reuters, 8/17</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">/2010 (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817)</span> </span>

**__<span style="background-color: silver;">The game of military bluff </span>….__**Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">US will not retain preeminent naval dominance forever.</span>** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">AFP 9 (</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">AFP, //Associated Press,// 3-22-10, China tells Japan it wants Aircraft Carrier, </span></span>[[http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5i1VgupeIW5R1tIsnjTeUXW8oZlNw|__http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5i1VgupeIW5R1tIsnjTeUXW8oZlNw__]])DR 

<span class="Underline">BEIJING (AFP) — China will not remain …. patrol boat to the region. </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">The only thing that naval presence deters is good relations with China.</span>** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">AFP 9-1 (</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Associated Foreign Press, 9-1-10, China Launches War Games in Yellow Sea</span>, </span>[[http://news.smh.com.au/breaking-news-world/china-launches-war-games-in-yellow-sea-20100901-14mxv.html]])DR 

<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;">China has launched live</span>…. Korea's closest ally and trade partner. </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Sending a U.S. aircraft carrier to the Yellow Sea would uniquely trigger conflict </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Hawkins, 2010 (William R., Consultant Specializing in International Economic and National Security Issues, Former Economics Professor and Former Congressional Staff Member, Family Security Matters, July 27, http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.6857/pub_detail.asp)</span> </span>

**__To claim and defend ….__**decisions about where to deploy its forces.

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Beijing condemns US Navy presence – heightens tensions and causes retaliation</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Washington Times 8-30 (</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Washington Times, //leading American reporting station,// 8-30-10, China to Conduct Live-Ammo Drills in Yellow Sea, </span></span><span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/29/china-to-conduct-live-ammo-drills-in-yellow-sea/]]</span>)DR
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> BEIJING | <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">China</span> said on Sunday its navy will <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">….harms me, I must harm them</span>."</span></span>
Deployment of the USS George Washington to the Yellow Sea would be seen as particularly aggressive – it’s the key internal link
<span class="cite">People Forum, 8/6/2010 (http://www.peopleforum.cn/viewthread.php?tid=22015)</span>
As tensions escalate on the Korean ….**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">will definitely irk Beijing</span>.**
Aircraft carrier in the Yellow Sea is key – it would put Beijing in striking distance 
<span class="cite">Associated Press, 2010 (August 5, http://www.cleveland.com/world/index.ssf/2010/08/chinese_aircraft-carrier-kille.html)</span>
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Nothing projects U.S. global ….range</span> of U.S. F-18 warplanes.**

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Deterrence failure and rise of China inevitable</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Ghani 8-29 (</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Rizwan, //author for the Pakistan Observer,// 8-29-10, Time for China’s Blue Water Navy, </span></span><span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=49512]]</span>)DR
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; text-decoration: none;">Following</span><span style="text-decoration: none;"> American <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Navy</span>’s ….<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">add to China’s naval power</span>. </span></span>

**US maritime hegemony has failed.**
**Asia News 9-24 (**Asia News, //Asian News Source, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas,// 9-24-10, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas , http://www.speroforum.com/site/article.asp?id=40324&t=Japan:++China:++Us:+++The+Senkaku+Diaoyu+conflict+and+the+end+of+U.S.+supremacy+on+the+seas)DR
Milan - The recent conflict ….and the beginning of the Chinese? 

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">US-China relations threatened by negative campaign politics</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Zeliff 10/24</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Bill, former congressman for the 1st Congressional District, US-China relationship threatened by negative campaign politics, 10/24/10, accessed 10/24/10, </span></span><span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/opinionperspectives/889287-263/us-china-relationship-threatened-by-negative-campaign-politics.html]]</span>)
<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Political campaigns bring ….of the U.S.-China relationship.</span></span>


==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2ac Jeju Adv. </span>== 

**Loss of marine biodiversity leads to extinction**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Davidson,</span></span> founder of the Turtle House Foundation and award-winning Journalist,<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> 2003 </span> </span>
(Fire in the Turtle House, p.47-51) 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="MinimizeChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">But surely the Athenians had it ….</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">and just twelve on land.</span> </span>

==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A2: Reps K </span>== 


<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Debate should only include discussions that are policy relevant- their K marginalizes itself out of politics and is useless</span>** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Joseph Nye, 09</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">, professor at Harvard University and former dean of the Harvard Kennedy School. , BA suma cum laude Princeton, PhD Harvard, Former Chair National Intelligence Council, Former Asst. Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, you know who he is, http:, www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/12/AR2009041202260_pf.html 4-13-09</span> </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">President Obama has appointed …. the trends in academic life seem to be headed in the opposite direction.</span> </span>

<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Changing reps hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and structures</span>** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Tuathail, 96</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;"> (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)</span> </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">While theoretical debates ….patterned mess that is human history.</span> </span>

Changing reps hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and structures
**Tuathail, 96** (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)

__While theoretical debates at ….__ patterned mess that is human history.

==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A2: Security K </span>== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Rejection only insulates security from effective criticism – the permutation solves best </span>
<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Waever, 1995</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Ole, Senior Researcher, Center for Peace & Conflict Research , On Security, ed. Ronnie D. Lipschutz, pg. 56-7)</span> </span>

<span class="underline0">An agenda of minimizing ….</span> security to be a positive value to be maximized.



==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A2: Normativity K </span>== 
<span style="margin-right: 0.5in;">**<span style="color: black;">Debate should only include discussions that are policy relevant- their K marginalizes itself out of politics and is useless </span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-right: 0.5in;">Joseph **Nye,** **09,** professor at Harvard University and former dean of the Harvard Kennedy School. , BA suma cum laude Princeton, PhD Harvard, Former Chair National Intelligence Council, Former Asst. Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, you know who he is, http:, //www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/12/AR2009041202260_pf.html 4-13-0**9**// </span>
//<span style="color: black; margin-right: 0.5in;">President __Obama__ has __appointed….__ life seem to be headed in the opposite direction. </span>//


//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Their argument is dangerously anti-political – it eradicates the only hope we have of resolving global problems </span>//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Colby et al, 2003</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Anne, Senior Scholar at the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, Former Director of the Henry Murray Research Center at Harvard University’s Radcliffe Institute, Change, November, Lexis)</span> </span>//

//<span class="BodyTextChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">One dimension concerns **….**and promote our </span>__</span><span style="font-variant: small-caps;">highest democratic </span><span class="BodyTextChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">ideals. </span>__</span>//


//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Moving away from anti-political projects like theirs is vital to prevent mass atrocity </span>//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Small, 2006</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Jonathan, The Jorunal for Civic Commitment, Spring, http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp)</span> </span>//

//<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">What will be the challenges of the new … project that seeks to do just that. </span>//


//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Their kritik of ‘fiat’ cuts both ways – the policy teams haven’t changed the world very much, but the K teams haven’t changed it whatsoever. Role-playing is better than the pipe-dream of their local alt </span>//
//<span class="cite">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Martin, 1993</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Brian, Associate Professor of Science and Technology Studies at the University of Wollongong, Science, Technology, and Human Values, Vol. 18 No. 2, Spring, http://www.uow.edu.au/~bmartin/pubs/93sthv.html)</span> </span>//

//<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">The metaphor of </span><span class="BodyTextChar">__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">trickle-down **….**</span>__</span><span style="font-variant: small-caps;"> intervention, what audience, and who benefits. </span>//



==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A2: Consult Russia CP </span>== 




//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Nonbinding consultation solves best.</span>** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Daily Oklahoman, 01</span>** </span>//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">WITH his arrival in Spain….ruffling some feathers along the way.</span> </span>//

//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Russia will say no- will join US naval exercises to deter North Korea</span>** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Reuters, 10</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">,news agency, 5/27/2010, “Russia plans big naval exercise off North Korea”, </span></span>[[http://uk.reuters.com/article/idUKTRE64Q3KI20100527]]//

//<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Russia will hold large-scale….adequate by the international community." </span> </span>//


==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A2: China War Good </span>== 



//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Turn: Chinese space technologies undermine U.S. hegemony – disrupts balance of power in East Asia and causes Chinese development of ASATs.</span>** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Murray and Antonellis ’03 </span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">(William Murray, analyst at Science Applications International Corporation specializing in East Asia, Robert Antonellis, analyst with the U.S. government, Orbis, “China’s Space Program” Autumn, 2003)</span> </span>//

//<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In the near future, the also intends….military forces that depend upon it., 21</span> </span>//

//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Ground troops are comparatively more important -</span>** </span>//
//<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Kim 99</span>**<span style="text-decoration: none;">—Associate Professor, Institute of Foreign Affairs (Sung, U.S. Military Presence in a Unified Korea, www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc, AMiles)</span> </span>//
//<span class="Underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Nevertheless, a drawback of this scenario….could harm U.S.-China relations.</span> </span>//


==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A2: South Korea Prolif DA </span>== 



//**South Korea won’t go nuclear- public opposition.**//
//**Yi ‘9** (Kiho, Dir. Nautilus Institute of Seoul and Prof. – Hanshin U., The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “The North Korean nuclear test: The South Korean reaction,” 6-5, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-north-korean-nuclear-test-the-south-korean-reaction)//
//But back to the domestic response in South Korea. __…..<span style="background-color: yellow;"> to</span> a practical process of <span style="background-color: yellow;">denuclearization</span>__ and disarmament on the Korean Peninsula.//


//**Plan won’t lead to rearm- we would still have troops near the border to serve as a deterrent against land invasion**//
//**Adams ‘5** (Karen Ruth, Associate Prof. IR – U. Montana, and PhD Pol Sci. – UC Berkeley, “New Great Powers: Who Will They Be, and How Will They Rise?”, http://www.cas.umt.edu/polsci/faculty/adams/greatpower.pdf, p. 11)//
//__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Extended deterrence can be ….. effective as deployments of 500,000</span>.42__//


//**South Korea views ground troops as key to deterrence because of the direct defense they provide against a DPRK invasion- withdrawal of naval forces is irrelevant to credibility**//
//**Payne et al ’10** (Keith, Pres. – National Institute for Public Policy, Prof. and Dept. Head of Graduate Defense and Strategic Studies – Mo. St. U., Chair – Policy Panel of theh US Strategic Command’s Senior Advisory Group, Thomas Scheber, VP – National Institute for Public Policy and former Dir. Strike Policy and Integration – Office of the Sec. Def., and Kurt Guthe, Dir. Strategic Studies – NIPP and former Deputy assistant Sec. Def. for Forces Policy, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia”, http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf, p. 11-13)//

//__The <span style="background-color: yellow;">forward presence of U.S. ….. the U.S. commitment</span> to the defense of the ROK__//

**Not enough plutonium, economic disincentives – at worst, long-timeframe**
**Hughes 7** - Senior Research Fellow and Deputy Director at the CSGR and teaches the course on the International Relations of Pacific Asia in PAIS (January 2007, Christopher, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan”, Asia Policy #3, http://www.nautilus.org/publications/essays/napsnet/policy-forums-online/security/copy_of_07021Hughes.pdf) MGM
Finally, despite having made impressive ….<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> were to seek nuclear weapons</span>.

==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A2: CMR DA </span>== 
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Non-unique LOW CMR NOW </span>


//<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">HADDICK 9</span></span> (Robert, Managing Editor of the Small Wars Journal, “This Week at War: McChrystal Plays Defense,” September, Foreign Policy Magazine, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/09/04/this_week _at_war_mcchrystal_plays_defense?page=0,0//JLENART) 
Gen. Stanley <span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: yellow;">McChrystal's report</span> ….<span style="background-color: yellow;"> civil-military relations.</span> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The link is not unique – Afghanistan timeline, budget, DADT, restructuring </span>
**King 9** [“Panel discusses civil-military relations at Fort Leavenworth, March 2009]
"The president has arranged …. most problems of those four areas. 


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Civil military relations are resilient – structural reinforcement mechanisms prevent their impact </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">HOOKER 4</span></span><span style="color: black;"> (Colonel Richard, Ph.D. from the University of Virginia in IR and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Winter 2004, “Soldiers of the State: Reconsidering American Civil-Military Relations,” Parameters, DA: 7/22/2010, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0IBR/is_4_33/ai_1118529 34///JLENART)// </span>

//The arguments advanced herein …. subordination of the soldiers of the state.//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">No chance of their stupid coup impact – ever </span>//
//Richard H. <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Kohn</span></span>, Spring <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">1994</span></span>, The National Interest//
//<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">When Americans speak or write ….</span></span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">or abrogating the Constitution. </span>__</span>//


==<span style="border-collapse: collapse; font-size: 18px; font-weight: 800; line-height: 27px;">North Korea Add-On</span>== 



<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: small-caps;">Joint naval exercises involving an aircraft carrier cause North Korea to retaliate with nuclear weapons </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: small-caps; font-weight: normal;">Yu, 2010</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: small-caps; font-weight: normal;"> (Quincy, Staff Writer for the Epoch Times, Tensions Rise as Largest US-South Korea Military exercise Kicks Off, Epoch Times, July 26, http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/39879/)</span> </span>

**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">The drill </span>is__** also **__<span style="background-color: yellow;">the first </span>….__** aggressive behavior must stop.”


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: small-caps;">And – Even limited nuclear use by North Korea guarantees extinction. </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: small-caps; font-weight: normal;">Hayes and Hamel-Green, 2010</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-variant: small-caps; font-weight: normal;"> (Peter, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for security and Sustainable Development, Michael, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education, and Human Development at Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, Nautilus Institute Special Report 10-001, January 5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)</span> </span>

The international community is increasingly ….consideration from the international community. 




=Negative= 


==Topicality== 
===T-Substantial=== 
**Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country**
**Blechman et al, 97** – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14)

The highly complex nature of ….and sustainment capabilities.”2


**A substantial reduction in presence requires at least a 50% decrease**
**Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92** (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis)

TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT MILITARY …. __reassigned__ and moved to another installation.


===<span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 19px;">T-Combat Troops</span>=== 

**Interpretation - Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Thomason, 2</span>** – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf

WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE?….__operation or contingency should call for them__.

===<span style="font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">T-Substantial vs. Futenma</span>=== 

**A. Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Blechman et al, 97</span>** – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14)
The highly complex nature … infrastructure and sustainment capabilities.”2
**A substantial reduction in presence requires at least a 50% decrease**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92</span>** (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis)
TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> reassigned</span> and moved to another installation.
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
**B. Violation – the affirmative is a minor reduction in presence**
**We have about 3200 troops in Futenma**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Globalsecurity.org no date</span>** – (“Futenma Marine Corps Air Station Okinawa, Japan”, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/facility/futenma.htm) MGM
More than <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">3,200 </span>… helicopters and KC-130 aerial refueling airplanes.


**We have 35,562 troops in Japan**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">DoD 3/31</span>** (**DoD Active Duty Military Personnel Strengths by Regional Area and by Country** 3/31/2010, http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst1003.pdf) MGM

==Kritiks== 
===Cap K=== 
<span class="Underline">**The affirmative’s act of withdrawal is only a token gesture aimed at making U.S. imperialism seem benign in order to buy of resistance.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gowan 4** [Peter, Professor of International Relations at London Metropolitan University, “Triumphing toward International Disaster: The Impasse in American Grand Strategy, Critical Asian Studies,” http://www.socialistresistance.co.uk/Triumphing%20toward%20International%20Disaster.pdf] </span>

<span class="Underline">The Problems of Rebuilding …. monetary and financial instabilities. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Increasing the sovereignty of other nations, allows the U.S. to futher capitalism absent direct intervention** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kiely 5** (Ray, Professor of International Politics, Queen Mary University of London, UK, Senior Lecturer in Development Studies, SOAS, University of London, The Changing Face of Anti-Globalization Politics: Two (and a Half) Tales of Globalization and Anti-Globalization, Globalizations; May2005, Vol. 2 Issue 1, p134-150, 17p, http://web.ebscohost.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/ehost/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=2&hid=9&sid=1f1398b6-fb2d-43d0-8fbf-23531a469b4b%40sessionmgr4 </span>

<span class="Underline">These comments on the ….rights and freedom—is poor. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Capitalism makes extinction inevitable – its focus on growth makes ecological decline inevitable, triggering multiple scenarios for extinction.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kovel 2 [**Joel, Alger Hiss Professor At Bard, The Enemy of Nature, Zed Books, p. 22-24] </span>

<span class="Underline">The scenario of ecological collapse…place behind its walls. </span>


<span class="Underline">**The alternative is to reject the affirmative as an instance of capital– only through a radical rejection of the system can we avoid extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Herod 4**(James, author of several books on capitalism, Getting Free, http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm) </span>


<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">It is time to try to …shape of their social world</span></span>

==Disads== 
===START DA=== 

<span class="Underline">**UNIQUENESS -- WILL PASS – NOW KEY TO ENSURE GOP VOTES.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**AP 6/11** </span>

<span class="Underline">A key US Senate committee will vote on a landmark nuclear arms treaty with Russia before lawmakers leave for their monthlong August break, the panel's top two members said Thursday. "We plan to hold a …. the US arsenal. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Obama cannot make meaningful changes to US policy in the Koreas without sacrificing anther part of his overloaded agenda.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Shen, 09** (Dingli, Professor of International Relations, Executive Dean of the Institute of International Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai, & Director of Center for American Studies at Fudan University, October, “Cooperative Denuclearization toward North Korea”, The Washington Quarterly, Vol. 32 No. 4, pg. 181, FT & RV) </span>

<span class="Underline">Washington has long viewed North … regards to its nuclear program. </span>

<span class="Underline">**PC KEY TO START PASSAGE.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Sharp 8/28/09** (travis, military policy analyst at the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation, where he specializes in defense budgeting, military policy, and congressional involvement in national security, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/local-priorities-vs-national-interests-arms-control) </span>
<span class="Underline">While beliefs about national…effort from the White House. </span>

<span class="Underline">**IMPACT -- START KEY TO SOLVE ACCIDENTS, THEFT, PROLIF AND RELATIONS** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Montreal Gazette 9** </span>
<span class="Underline">. [July 4, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” -- </span>[[http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor]]

<span class="Underline">Still, Blair and many ….buried by them," Blair said. </span>

<span class="Underline">T**HE IMPACT IS EXTINCTION.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**American Prospect, 2/26/01** </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The bitter disputes over….war by checklist, by rote</span></span>

===Midterms DA=== 

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">GOP expected to take over the House </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Politico 9/22</span></span> (Bruce J. Schulman, 9/22/10, " GOP has a 'natural' House majority ", [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0910/42501.html]])
<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">As the midterm campaign ….<span style="background-color: yellow;">lose congressional seats at midterm</span></span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">. </span></span>

**The plan’s a step away from Bush—mobilizes the democratic base in the midterms and they’re key.**
**Kilkenny 2k9.** Allison, “New poll paints ugly 2010 picture, [[http://trueslant.com/allisonkilkenny/2009/11/29/new-poll-paints-ugly-2010-picture/]]

Two in five. That’s 40 percent …. __won overwhelming victories in both houses__. 

**Republican majority after the midterms is key to a climate bill – ensures lame duck session, which is the only hope to get democrats to vote for the bill.**
**Cousins 8/30.** Cousins Farron, senior staff writer for The American Trial Lawyer magazine, and his writings have appeared in publications such as California's Information Press, and Pensacola's Independent Weekly. He has also worked for the Ring of Fire radio program with hosts Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., “WILL CONGRESS RESURRECT THE CLIMATE BILL?,” [[http://www.energyboom.com/policy/will-congress-resurrect-climate-bill]]

After being declared legally dead ….**__only shot that this climate bill has left.__**

**A national RPS will establish uniform standards and signal a national commitment to renewable energy that will spillover into other policies and move away from fossil fuels, which is key to stop warming.**
**Sovacool and Cooper 7.** Ben Sovacool, PhD former Fellow at Oak Ridge national lab and professor at VaTech, and Christopher Cooper, executive director of Network for New Energy Choices (NNEC) a nonprofit focused on expanding energy choices, “Big is Beautiful: The Case for Federal Leadership on National renewable Portfolio Standard” The Electricity Journal vol 20, issue 4 May pg. 48-61 

While the value of renewable …. answer is clear: big is truly beautiful.

**Extinction**
**Henderson 6** [Bill Henderson, environmental scientist, “Runaway Global Warming Denial.” __Countercurrents.org__ August 19, 2006. [[http://www.countercurrents.org/cc-henderson190806.htm]].]


<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The scientific debate about human …. greenhouse gases leading to ever accelerating global</span>
===Small Businesses DA=== 

**Will pass- Voinovich is the key 60th vote- but political capital’s key**
**The Hill 9-9-2010 (Jay Heflin,** [[http://thehill.com/blogs/on-the-money/801-economy/117907-voinovich-to-support-small-business-bill?page=2#comments]]**)**
__Sen. George Voinovich (R-Ohio) ….by the oil-and-gas industry.__


(insert link)

**<span style="color: black;">Small business lending is key to short-term and long-term economic growth and competitiveness </span>**
**<span style="color: black;"> Favole 8-30 (Jared, Writer for Dow Jones Newswire, “3rd White House: More Economic Stimulus Measures Coming,” 2010,</span>**[[http://www.automatedtrader.net/real-time-dow-jones/14148/3rd-update-white-house-more-economic-stimulus-measures-coming]]**<span style="color: black;">) </span>**
__President Barack Obama on Monday said his economic team ….__Chairman Christina Romer and economic adviser Larry Summers

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Continued economic decline causes global WMD conflict. </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Kerpen 08 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(Phil, Policy Director for Americans for Prosperity, National Review, October 28, http://www.americansforprosperity.org/afps-phil-kerpen-discusses-financial-crisis-national-review) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">It’s important that we avoid</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> all …. __armed conflicts on an even greater scale__</span>

===South Korea Prolif DA=== 

**<span style="color: black;">Withdrawal causes South Korea and Japan to proliferate </span>**
**Wimbush 8** – Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (January 2008, S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down”, Asia Policy Number 5, presented at the Korea Institute for Future Strategies, http://kms2.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/RESSpecNet/105147/ichaptersection_singledocument/C4F1A704-3F9E-4AEE-B55F-E1ADEB9CFA23/en/2.pdf) MGM
**NOTE: ARTICLE FOLLOWS THE EVENTS THAT WOULD OCCUR POST-WITHDRAWAL. THE EVENTS IN THE ARTICLE HAVE NOT HAPPENED**

**__A Russian think-tank__ …. __the country’s nuclear energy requirements__.**


That collapses the NPT 
Einhorn 4 – **Department of State’s Special Advisor for Nonproliferation and Arms Control (2004, Robert, “Will the Abstainers Reconsider”, part of “Nuclear Tipping Point : Why States Reconsider Their Nuclear Choices.”, accessed at Umich ebrary) MGM**

**The ones listed above were chosen ….__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> step toward the tipping point</span>.__**


Escalates to global nuclear war 
Cirincione, 2k **– Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)**
**The blocks would fall quickest ….__<span style="background-color: yellow;">use of</span> a <span style="background-color: yellow;">nuclear weapon</span> since__ 19__45__.**


===China DA=== 


Troops in Japan deter Taiwan invasion 
Ross 2 – **Professor of Political Science, Boston College, and Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies, Harvard University (John, International Security Journal, Fall 2002, Vol. 27, p.79, Muse)**

**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Deterrence could fail if China’s </span>….__ intervention with Kadena-based U.S. aircraft.**


Military exercises are critical to deterrence of China 
Payne, et. al, 10 **– Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (3/2010, Keith, Thomas Scheber – VP National Institute for Public Policy, Kurt Guthe – Director of Strategic Studies at the National Institute for Public Policy, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,” [[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]]) MGM**

**__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Military exercises</span> and operations, ….<span style="background-color: yellow;">nuclear guarantee will be more direct.</span>__**


US-China nuclear war goes global 
<span style="background-color: yellow;">Hunkovic 9</span>, **American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict**
**Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]**
**__A <span style="background-color: yellow;">war between China, Taiwan </span>….__ other countries will not be considered in this study.**


===Allied Prolif=== 
**Withdrawal causes rapid allied prolif – intervening actors can’t solve and miscalc outweighs other factors**
**Wimbush 8** – Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (January 2008, S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down”, Asia Policy Number 5, presented at the Korea Institute for Future Strategies, http://kms2.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/RESSpecNet/105147/ichaptersection_singledocument/C4F1A704-3F9E-4AEE-B55F-E1ADEB9CFA23/en/2.pdf) MGM
**NOTE: ARTICLE FOLLOWS THE EVENTS THAT WOULD OCCUR POST-WITHDRAWAL. THE EVENTS IN THE ARTICLE HAVE NOT HAPPENED**
**What does this parable of ….<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> detriment of</span> nearly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">everyone</span>.** 
Escalates to global nuclear war
Cirincione, 2k **– Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)**
**The blocks would fall quickest …. a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">nuclear weapon</span> since 1945.** 



==<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">New Ptx DA-Saudi Arms Deal (St. Marks)</span>== 

Obama’s pushing the arms deal – despite some opposition it won’t be blocked. 
Jerusalem Post 9/21 (Lexis)

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">While Baraq's meetings with ….<span class="underline"> understand it <span style="background-color: aqua;">has to accept the political reality.</span></span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">[INSERT PLAN COST CAPITAL] </span>

Political capital’s key – especially in an election year. 
Dumke 6<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> (David T. Dumke, former legislative director for Representative John D. Dingell, 3-15-2006 “Saudi Arabia and Congress: Understanding the Tension” http://www.saudi-us-relations.org/articles/2006/ioi/060315-congress-dumke.html) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Foreign policy is no different ….seeking to bolster their security credentials. </span>

**Impact goes one direction – their impacts are empirically denied by past sales, but the most recent request is key to solidify US-Saudi relations.** 
**Forbes 10** (9/2/10, http://www.forbes.com/2010/09/01/saudi-arabia-military-defense-weapons-business-oxford.html)

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua;">Though a trickle of Saudi purchases …. with Washington for at least another 20 years.</span> </span>

**US-Saudi relations are key to keep oil priced in dollars and maintain US hegemony** 
Charles **Shaw**, Editor-in-Chief, June, **4**, http://www.newtopiamagazine.net/content/issue17/features/greenleap.php

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">The second critical issue is that <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua;">the US …. ends</span>, </span>through revolution or war, <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: aqua;">US hegemony ends</span></span>, unless we occupy the oil fields till they run dry. </span>

**Collapse of American hegemony causes nuclear war** 
Alexei **Arbatov 7** corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, “Is a New Cold War Imminent,” Russia in Global Affairs, No. 2, July-September 2007, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1130.html

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">However, the low probability of a new Cold War ….s__everal <span style="background-color: aqua;">major capitals of the world</span>.__</span>


===Allied Prolif=== 

Withdrawal causes rapid allied prolif – intervening actors can’t solve and miscalc outweighs other factors
Wimbush 8 **– Director of the Center for Future Security Strategies and Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute (January 2008, S. Enders, “A Parable: The U.S.-ROK Security Relationship Breaks Down”, Asia Policy Number 5, presented at the Korea Institute for Future Strategies, http://kms2.isn.ethz.ch/serviceengine/Files/RESSpecNet/105147/ichaptersection_singledocument/C4F1A704-3F9E-4AEE-B55F-E1ADEB9CFA23/en/2.pdf) MGM**
NOTE: ARTICLE FOLLOWS THE EVENTS THAT WOULD OCCUR POST-WITHDRAWAL. THE EVENTS IN THE ARTICLE HAVE NOT HAPPENED
What does this parable of ….<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> detriment of</span> nearly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">everyone</span>. 
**Escalates to global nuclear war**
**Cirincione, 2k** – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)
The blocks would fall quickest …. a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">nuclear weapon</span> since 1945. 


==Counterplans== 
===Russia + NK War CP=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should**
<span style="text-indent: 0.25in;">**-establish and publicly portray a willingness to engage North Korea diplomatically in a reciprocal process** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**-convince other regional actors to participate in a multilateral security solution with negotiations being open and scheduled on a continuous basis.** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**-offer Russia the mediator role** </span>
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">**-propose the creation of a body that organizes economic assistance to North Korea with the goal of system transformation** </span>


**This solves Korean War better than the aff and avoids the (deterrence/economy) DA**
**Kinne 4** – US Army Colonel (5/3/2004, Gary, “U.S. Strategy Towards North Korea”, US Army War College Strategy Research Project, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423691) MGM

__The U__nited __S__tates, __through its …. and potential world super power.__


**The CP also brings Russia to the table, solving Russian relations and Korean tensions**
**<span style="background-color: yellow;">Toloraya, 8 </span>**– diplomat with the rank of Minister and Director of Korean Programs at IMEMO, the top Russian Foreign Ministry official in charge of the Korean peninsula, Doctor of Economy and a Full Professor degree in Oriental Studies (Georgy, //Asian Perspective,// “**THE SIX PARTY TALKS: A RUSSIAN PERSPECTIVE”, ProQuest)**

__The real root of the controversy, as …. might <span style="background-color: yellow;">have much wider global implications</span>__.53




===Consult Russia=== 


Russia will say yes—benefits of cooperation outweigh benefits of opposition 
Simes ‘3 **(Dmitti – President of the Nixon Center – FDCH Political Testimony, 9/30)**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__For this Commission's purposes ….unavoidable differences on other issues.__</span>



The net benefit is relations— 

<span style="color: black;">Relations are failing </span>
<span style="color: black;">Sheftsova 6-16 (</span>**<span style="color: black;">Lilia, //Senior Associate, Russian Domestic Politics and Political Institutions Program, Moscow Center,// 6-16-2010, It Takes Two to Reset, </span><span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.carnegie.ru/publications/?fa=41036]]</span>)DR**

**__<span style="color: black;">The Kremlin is willing…. effect of what was intended. </span>__**

Binding veto power is critical to prevent relations from collapsing. Only the counterplan solves—non-binding consultation is inevitable through the NRC, but viewed as insufficient by Kremlin. 
International Herald Tribune ‘7 **(4/5, http://www.iht.com/articles/2007/03/05/news/russia.php)**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">"Our response to that is, if that is their view, then __….<span style="background-color: yellow;"> which their concerns were not weighed.</span>__</span>


US-Russian relations are key to reorient Russian military power and check Russia-China nuclear war. 
Newsweek ’95 **(Michael Elliot, “Why Russia Still Matters to America,” May 15, Lexis)**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">"__Russia__," says Deputy Secretary of State….economic development and the rest.</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>


Russia-China war kills hundreds of millions and ends in extinction. 
Sharavin ‘1 **(Alexander – director of the Institute for Military and Political Analysis – What the Papers Say, October 3, http://www.cdi.org/russia/johnson/5470.html)**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Chinese propaganda has constantly …. yet available to the Russian Armed Forces!</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Russia may face the "wonderful" ….possible__</span>
__nuclear winter.__


===Jungle CP=== 

**The United States federal government should renegotiate the Agreement Between the Government of Japan and the Government of the United States of America Concerning the Implementation of the Relocation of III Marine Expeditionary Force Personnel and Their Dependents from Okinawa to Guam to relocate non- Jungle Warfare Training Center United States Marine Corps presence from the Okinawa Prefecture of Japan.**
**Okinawa’s JWTC is the only jungle warfare training center in the world – key to contingency training**
Ryan D. **<span class="cite">Libbert</span>**, Marine Corporal, 2-22-**<span class="cite">2004</span>**, “Okinawa’s jungle premiere training,” Global Security, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/news/2004/02/mil-040222-mcn01.htm
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Marines serving on Okinawa take ….</span></span>hone our own basic skills to keep this place strong."
**US jungle war training is key to fight drug trafficking in Colombia – solves regional instability and Latin American democracy** 
Lieutenant Colonel Thomas J. **<span class="cite">Comodeca</span>** United States Army THE NEED FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES INVOLVEMENT IN THE ANDEAN REGION’S COUNTER DRUG EFFORTS April 7, **<span class="cite">2003 </span>**accessed July 31, 2010 http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415480//Donnie 
<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The US must continue to use SOFs ….while protecting democracy in the region today. </span></span>
***Note: SOF = Special Operations Forces***
**Failure of Latin American democratization causes regional proliferation and nuclear conflict**
Donald **<span class="cite">Schulz</span>**, Chairman of the Political Science Department at Cleveland State University, March **<span class="cite">2000</span>**, The United States and Latin America: Shaping an Elusive Future, p. 3&26-28, http://stinet.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA375197&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">In short, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">democracy and economic integration</span></span> ….<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> different blocs or coalitions in the hemisphere</span></span>.</span>


==*Advantage Frontlines== 
===__Korean War__=== 

**<span style="color: black;">. Kim Jong-il is rational and won’t risk suicidal war – risk of war is extremely low </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Marshall 9 – </span>**<span style="color: black;">Asia Political Risk Correspondent (10/27/2009, Andrew, “Why it's sane for Kim Jong-il to be crazy” http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE59Q0BE20091027) </span>

<span style="color: black;">For those who see </span>….<span style="background-color: yellow;">him to throw away his best cards</span>. 



**2. War won’t escalate –Empirics and experts**
**Strobel and Landay 5/25** – *Foreign affairs correspondent AND **Reporter (5/25/2010, Warren and Jonathan, “Will North Korea's saber rattling lead to war?”, [[http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2010/05/25/94820/will-north-koreas-saber-rattling.html#ixzz0ycjuaAZf]]) MGM**

**Still, <span style="background-color: yellow;">Brown and</span> other former <span style="background-color: yellow;">top</span> ….<span style="background-color: yellow;">Korean presidential residence</span>, the Blue House.**


3. Turn –No more provocations – deterrence is working. Also, war won’t escalate – empirics
Interview with Admiral Willard 7/20 **– (7/20/2010, “Presenter: Pentagon Press Secretary Geoff Morrell, Commander, U.S. Pacific Command Adm. Robert Willard and a Senior Defense Official”, http://www.defense.gov/transcripts/transcript.aspx?transcriptid=4657) MGM**

**Q And do you believe that ….**
**attempting to change the behavior of North Korea.**


===6 Party Talks=== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">No six party talks even after U.S. withdrawal – sunken South Korean ship prevents </span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific 10 </span></span>(“South Korea says nuclear talks not possible if North linked to ship sinking”, 4/20/10, Accessed through LexisNexis, DA: 7/19/10)**

**SEOUL, April 20 (Yonhap) - <span class="underline">The resumption ….its actions</span>," he told the briefing.**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">North Korea enters six-party talks only to shift attention away from sunken South Korean ship – no real interest </span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Global Security Newswire ‘10</span></span> (“North Korea to Again Meet With U.N. Command”, 7/19/10, DA: 7/19/10, Online: [[http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20100719_1830.php]])**

**Seoul's Unification Ministry wrote in a ….<span class="underline"> incident</span>," he said in a television interview.**



**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">North Korea is developing nuclear weapons for its own sake – will never come to six-nation efforts </span>**
**Greg <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Torode</span></span> is the Chief Asia Correspondent at South China Morning Post <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09</span></span> (“A policy adrift; Despite its might, the US Navy is no match for Pyongyang's rust-bucket cargo fleet”, 6/24/09, South China Morning Post, Accessed through LexisNexis, DA: 7/19/10)**


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Mainland ports are far more likely to ….<span class="underline">to give up its nuclear weapons."</span></span>**


===Biodiversity=== 


**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Biodiversity isn’t key to survival </span>**
**<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Calgary Herald</span></span>, August 30, 19<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">97</span></span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">Ecologists have long maintained that ….<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;"> against ecological collapse</span></span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">."</span>__ </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Species loss is inevitable: they can’t solve all causes </span>**
**<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">New Straits Times</span></span> (Malaysia), <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">February 4</span></span>**, 2001 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; margin-left: 0in;">Malaysia's Bachelor of Science ….<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow;"> and even over population.</span></span><span style="background-color: yellow;">"</span></span>**

**Ecosystems are resilient: they won’t collapse**
**Tony** Meacham**, research analyst and journalist, 19**97**, How the Tiger Lost Its Stripes**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Before such apocalyptic imagery ….. times more powerful than Krakatoa.</span>**

===Patriarchy=== 
**Patriarchy isn’t the root cause of war – blaming it deters investigations into more likely causes** 
**Barbara <span class="cite">Ehrenreich</span>, journalist, former Professor of Journalism at UC-Berkeley, <span class="cite">1997</span>, Blood Rites, p. 232.**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">In trying to understand what war is, <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none;">we ….</span></span>which really does have “a life of its own”?</span>**
**War is no longer associated with masculinism – proves their alt can’t solve it**
**Barbara <span class="cite">Ehrenreich</span>, journalist, former Professor of Journalism at UC-Berkeley, <span class="cite">1997</span>, Blood Rites, p. 231**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">But <span class="underline0"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the inclusion ….</span></span>without human direction or supervision.”</span>**
**Changing conceptions of gender doesn’t solve militarism** 
**Michael <span class="cite">Lind</span>, the Whitehead Senior Fellow at the New America Foundation, Of Arms and Women, January 20, <span class="cite">2005</span>, online: <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://feminism.eserver.org/of-arms-and-the-woman.txt]]</span>**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in;">This recurrent focus on …. counsel and study war no more.</span>**

Enloe concludes neg – aff does nothing to solve gender
<span style="color: #141413;">Enloe 93</span>**<span style="color: #141413;"> – Professor in the Department of International Development, Community, and Environment at Clark University, Ph.D in Political Science from UC Berkeley (Cynthia Enloe, “The Morning After: Sexual Politics at the End of the Cold War” p. 150, MT)</span>**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: #1a1718;">There is </span>**no evidence**<span style="color: #1a1718;"> ….catering to soldiers are motivated by profit.</span>**


===**South Korea Prostitution**=== 

Prostitution in South Korea is decreasing.
Dujisin ’09**, “Prostitution Thrives with US Military Presence, [[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556]], Zoltan Dujisin, staff writer for IPS, July 7, 2009, DA: 8/9/10, MLH**
**<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="tagChar">There has been a reduction in prostitution ….</span>them is difficult given they enjoy a special legal status since 1945.</span>**
Prostitution down – crackdowns and training check.
Stars & Stripes ’10 **“Prostitution crimes down among troops in S. Korea”, Ashley Rowland, September 26, 2008, [[http://www.stripes.com/news/prostitution-crimes-down-among-troops-in-s-korea-1.83440]], DA: 8/9/10, MLH**
**<span style="text-align: justify;">SEOUL — <span class="tagChar">As South Korea continues a</span> nationwide <span class="tagChar">….</span>, home to the headquarters for the U.S. military in South Korea.</span>**
Economic conditions for Korean women are improving.
Hughes No date
**Donna M Hughes, PhD University of Rhoode Island, Katherine Y. Chon and Derek P Ellerman co-founders of the Polaris Project, “Modern-Day Comfort Women: The US Military, Transnational Crime, and the Trafficking of Women”, Ch. 11, International Sex Trafficking of Women and Children: Understanding the Global, DA: 7/8/10, MLH**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;"><span class="tagChar">In the last decade, the economic ….Russian</span> (Union of Women’s Social Organizations, n.d.).</span>**
The closing of bases reverses this.
Hughes No date
**Donna M Hughes, PhD University of Rhoode Island, Katherine Y. Chon and Derek P Ellerman co-founders of the Polaris Project, “Modern-Day Comfort Women: The US Military, Transnational Crime, and the Trafficking of Women”, Ch. 11, International Sex Trafficking of Women and Children: Understanding the Global, DA: 7/8/10, MLH**
**<span style="margin-left: 0in; text-align: justify;">For decades, <span class="tagChar">Filipina women have been ….</span> in when the U.S. military bases were in the Philippines.</span>**
And, our impacts are NOT constructed – DPRK rhetoric proves our arguments
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Wallace 4</span> **– Colonel of the US army (Joseph K., 5/3, “TRANSFORMING DETERRENCE ON THE KOREAN PENINSULA”, [[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA423758&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]) *note: the footnotes from 1 and 2 are from Homer T. Hodge, a Senior Intelligence Officer for Asia at the US Army National, footnote 3 is from the DPNK news agency**
**Throughout the 50-year alliance the United ….fight against the United States.”3** 




=Tournaments= 
==GDS== 
2nrs: Cap, ptx/cp, ptx/case


==Blue Key== 
Round 1--
**1nc:** 
**T substantial**
**Saudi Arms DA**
**Cap K**
**Allied Prolif DA**
**Biodiversity (Case)**
**Patriarchy (Case)**

**Block:**
**Cap K**
**Allied Prolif DA**
**Biodiversity**
**Patriarchy**

**2nr:** 
**Cap K**

Round 4--
**1nc:**
**Saudi Arms DA**
**Jungle CP**
**Futenma CP**
**Allied Prolif DA**
**Biodiversity (Case)**
**Warming (Case)**
**Japan-US Alliance (Case)**

**Block:**
**debate ended after the 2ac**

Round 5--**
1nc:
Allied Prolif
Corea PIC
Prostitution CP
Framework
Structural violence (case)
Prostitution (case)
Imperialism (case)

block:
Allied Prolif
Framework
Corea PIC

2nr:
Corea PIC





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]