[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 32px; line-height: 48px;">Affirmative</span>= 
==Japan 1AC UT (Sorry, Jeff, torture isn't bad anymore:P)== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should withdraw its ground forces from Japan and the Futenma base on Japan, excluding the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit and the forces necessary to operate the Kadena Air Base and the Yokosuka naval base.**


**Current military is increasing disputes between the US and Japan**
**Ennis 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter Ennis, Writer for … )PS</span>
The already-slim prospects for … <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">issue in a very important alliance. </span></span>


**AND, this culminates in us losing ALL of our strategic forward military in Japan, two internal links:**

**First is the public**
**<span style="color: black;">O’Hanlon 01</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, “Come Partly Home, America: How to Downsize U.S. Deployments Abroad,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.brookings.edu/articles/2001/0301forceandlegitimacy_ohanlon.aspx)PS</span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Keeping so many marines on … facilities on Japan's main islands. </span></span>

**<span class="cite">Second is Japan independence which independently turns your disads</span>**
<span style="color: black;">Robinson 2010 </span> (Dr. David; Edith Cowan University Australia; “Why the West should Discourage Japanese Military Expansion”;
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Journal of Asia Pacific Studies (2010) Vol 1, No 2, 312-319 312)PS</span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">While Japan might have seemed … </span></span>as a military power [Pyle, 1998, p130].



**WE WILL ISOLATE 2 SCENARIOS:**


__<span class="Underline">**//Scenario one is Air Power//** </span>__

**First, Kadena is key to air-based rapid-response capabilities—3 reasons**
**Axe 2007**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 7pt;">Apr 27, 2007</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> David Axe is a military correspondent, regular contributor to Wired, The Washington Times, C-SPAN and BBC Radio, “</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. Strengthens Presence inOkinawaandGuam,”[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=dti&id=news/dtFORT0407.xml&headline=U.S.%20Strengthens%20Presence%20in%20Okinawa%20and%20Guam|http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jspchannel=dti&id=news/dtFORT0407.xml&headline=U.S.%20Strengthens%20Presence%20]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=dti&id=news/dtFORT0407.xml&headline=U.S.%20Strengthens%20Presence%20in%20Okinawa%20and%20Guam|in%20Okinawa%20and%20Guam]])PS</span>
The locations and geographies of … a forward staging base," Monroe explains. 

**This is key to prevent multiple escalatory scenarios for nuclear war and prevents your disads escalation**
**<span style="color: black;">Tellis 1998</span>** <span style="color: black;">(</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Ashley J., Senior Political Scientist at RAND specializing in South Asian Security, Chung Min Lee, James Mulvenon, Courtney Purrington, and Michael D. Swaine, “Sources of Conflict in Asia” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/MR897.chap3.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">)PS</span>
In almost all these cases, U<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">.S. … , Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.</span></span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> Scenario two is Naval Power </span>



**First, the Yokosuka naval base is independently key to handle regional naval conflicts and deter China.**
**Yoshihara 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Toshi Yoshihara, <span style="color: black;">associate professor in the Strategy and Policy Department and an affiliate member of the China Maritime Studies Institute at the Naval War College, “</span>Chinese missile strategy and the U.S. naval presence in Japan: the operational view from Beijing<span style="color: black;">,”</span>[[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Chinese+missile+strategy+and+the+U.S.+naval+presence+in+Japan:+the...-a0233607054]])PS</span>
Perhaps no other place … .

**<span style="color: black;">This is key to prevent escalation of a crisis over Taiwan and in the Indian Ocean </span>**
**Yoshihara 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Toshi Yoshihara, <span style="color: black;">associate professor in the Strategy and Policy Department and an affiliate member of the China Maritime Studies Institute at the Naval War College, “</span>Chinese missile strategy and the U.S. naval presence in Japan: the operational view from Beijing<span style="color: black;">,”</span>[[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Chinese+missile+strategy+and+the+U.S.+naval+presence+in+Japan:+the...-a0233607054]])P</span>S
<span style="color: black;">Chinese analysts also closely examine … of U.S. forward presence in Japan. </span>


**__Two Impacts:__**


**First, conflict with China over Taiwan draws in global powers and goes nuclear**
**<span style="color: black;">Hunkovic</span>** **<span style="color: black;">2009</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Lee J, American Military University, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America” ,[[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]])PS </span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A war between China, Taiwan … </span></span>be considered in this study. 

**Second,** **the Indian Ocean will be a major flashpoint for an India-China conflict**
**Kurczy 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen Kurczy, Staff Writer for CSM, “Robert Kaplan: Indian Ocean becomes battleground for India and China,” October 26, 2010, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Global-News/2010/1026/Robert-Kaplan-Indian-Ocean-becomes-battleground-for-India-and-China]])PS</span>

A correspondent for the Atlantic … all of this,” says Kaplan.

**This prevents vital oil shipments from passing through the Indian Ocean**
**Blazevic 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jason J. Blazevic//,// completing a doctorate in Political Science at Idaho State University, //“//</span>Defensive Realism in the Indian Ocean: Oil, Sea Lanes and the Security Dilemma,” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.chinasecurity.us/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=304&Itemid=8]])PS</span>
Whether or not China is … facilities at Great Coco Island. 

**This causes global economic collapse**
**Hathaway 2009** (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Terry Hathaway, Freelance writer, <span style="color: black;">“Oil's Importance to the World Economy: A Look at the Current, and Future, Global Consumption of Gasoline,” </span></span><span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #003399; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">[[http://www.suite101.com/content/oils-importance-to-the-world-economy-a107937#ixzz16E7PssZ7]]</span><span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">)PS</span>

Since the horse and carriage … <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">oil should not be underestimated. </span></span>

**Power vacuums, multiple nuclear wars, terrorism, and extinction**
Aaron L. **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Friedberg</span></span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">08</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University, served from 2003 to 2005 in the office of the Vice President of the United States as deputy assistant for national-security affairs and director of policy planning. PhD in Politics from Harvard) <span class="Heading2Char">and</span> Gabriel </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schoenfeld</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington DC and a resident scholar at the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton) October 21, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “The Dangers of a Diminished America” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html?mod=rss_opinion_main]]</span>

**Then** <span class="Highlightedunderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">there ar<span style="border: medium none;">e</span></span>**</span> **the** <span class="Highlightedunderline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">dolorous</span>** **<span style="font-size: 10pt;">… </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">internal travails with external adventures</span></span>.



**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention Two is the Alliance </span>__**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current military presence is devastating the alliance, now is key time TO SOLVE. </span></span>**</span>
**3 internals:**

**First is government opposition**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feffer 6/10</span></span>** (john; <span style="color: black;">Ph.D. co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, taught an international conflict graduat</span>e course at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul, lectured at NYU and Cornell“Okinawa and the new domino effect,” [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html|http://w ww.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html]]<span style="color: black;">)AB</span> </span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The current battle over the … of another of dubiousstrategic value </span></span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Second is military exercises, helicopters and military sexploitation** </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weaver </span></span>et al <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">3/10</span></span>**([[http://www.stripes.com/reporters/Teri_Weaver?author=Teri_Weaver|teri weaver]] , [[http://www.stripes.com/reporters/David_Allen?author=David_Allen|david allen]] , [[http://www.stripes.com/reporters/Chiyomi_Sumida?author=Chiyomi_Sumida|chiyomi sumida]] <span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; padding: 0in;">Stars and Stripes</span>; Published: March 5, 2010; Teri Weaver. David was born in South Carolina, raised in New York and served in the U.S. Navy as a reservist from 1966-68. He attended several State University of New York schools in the early 1970s and was editor of the “Compass,” the weekly student newspaper for Suffolk Community College for two years. He began his newspaper career in 1974 in Virgina, with the weekly Fauquier Democrat and later helped start the weekly Culpeper News before switching to the daily Petersburg Progress-Index and Newport News Daily Press. He covered a variety of beats, including courts and cops. He moved on to the Fort Wayne, IN, News-Sentinel in 1984 and was the paper’s police reporter for almost eight years. In December 1991 he became the Guam Bureau Chief for Stars and Stripes. In January 1994 he moved to the Okinawa News Bureau. In 1999 David received the Clarion Award for Hard News, a national award presented by the Association of Women in Communications, for his story about the unearthing of the remains of several American Marines in a cave near Nago some 54 years after the Battle of Okinawa – and the tragic tale uncovered by their discovery. Chiyomi was born and raised in Hiroshima, Japan. She joined Pacific Stars and Stripes in 1990. She specializes in covering Japanese and Okinawan government agencies and also serves as an Japanese-English translator for the newspaper. She has a Bachelor of Science in Management Studies from University of Maryland. She has an Associate of Arts in English Literature from Notre Dame Seishin in Hiroshima.)AB</span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">TOKYO — On Okinawa, long-suffering … </span></span>and International Studies in Washington

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Third is environment </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson 04 </span></span>**(Chalmers A. Blowback: the Costs and Consequences of American Empire. (Pg. 48) New York: Henry Holt, 2004.)AD</span>

<span style="margin-left: 13.5pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Closely related to noise pollution … </span>**__any responsibility for environmental cleanup.__** </span>
[[#_Toc271055609]]

**This independently leads to extinction**
David **<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diner</span></span>**, JAG Corps, United States Army, Winter **<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1994</span></span>**, Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, p. 170-173
<span style="margin-left: 0.2in;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Why Do We Care? -- … </span>__edging closer to the abyss__. </span>


**We will isolate several impact scenarios:**
**First is regional stability—absent alliance nuclear war is inevitable**
Richard L. <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Armitage et al. 2000**</span></span> Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Asia, in the throes of … __to America’s global security strategy.__ </span>

<span style="margin-top: 6pt;">**Scenario 2 is Missile Defense:** </span>
<span style="margin-top: 6pt;"> **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">No BMD now- funding issues </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Space War Missile News 09 </span></span><span class="bhl">(“Japan to halt new missile defence spending: media; </span>**<span class="bdl">Tokyo” (AFP) Dec 15, 2009 http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Japan_to_halt_new_missile_defence_spending_media_999.html)AB</span></span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Japan's centre-left government will … improve debt-ridden government [[@http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Japan_to_halt_new_missile_defence_spending_media_999.html|__finances__]]</span></span>.


<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">I**ndependently; Withdrawal will free up Japananese military funding for furthering BMD** </span></span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Kawasaki 5/1**0</span></span> (Akira; Akira KAWASAKI is a member of the Executive Committee of the Tokyo-based NGO Peace Boat, and a Program Coordinator of its Global University. He is a former Secretary General of the Yokohama-based NGO Peace Depot. He has written several books and many articles on nuclear disarmament, Iraq war and security issues in Northeast Asia, including “Nuclear Proliferation” 2003 Iwanami Shoten; "Japan's Military Spending at a Crossroads"; Washington, DC: Foreign Policy In Focus, May 10, 2010; http://www.fpif.org/articles/japans_military_spending_at_a_crossroads)AB</span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The second key characteristic of … in relation to the U.S. military. </span></span>


<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, the alliance is critical to cooperative development of ballistic missile defense systems </span></span>**</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Rubinstein 200**7</span></span> (Gregg A; Gregg Rubinstein is director of GAR Associates and advisor to the U.S. Department of Defense; “US-Japan Missile Defense Cooperation: Current Status, Future Prospects”; http://www.japanconsidered.com/OccasionalPapers/Rubinstein% 20USJA%20BMD%20article%20090507.pdf)PS </span>

Policy: Moving **__from agreement on …__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">response to imminent missile threats</span>.

**__<span style="color: black;">Two Impacts: </span>__**
**<span style="color: black;">First, this prevents all nuclear conflicts </span>**
**Yoshihara 2010** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Toshi Yoshihara, <span style="color: black;">associate professor in the Strategy and Policy Department and an affiliate member of the China Maritime Studies Institute at the Naval War College, “</span>Chinese missile strategy and the U.S. naval presence in Japan: the operational view from Beijing<span style="color: black;">,”</span>[[http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Chinese+missile+strategy+and+the+U.S.+naval+presence+in+Japan:+the...-a0233607054]])PS</span>

<span style="color: black;">Third, **__escalation control will be a …__** </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">or loss of flight control." (60)</span>

**US-Japan BMD key to checking prolif**
**Swaine et. al. ‘7**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael D. Swaine, 12/7, Ph.D., Harvard University, Senior Associate and Co-Director of the China Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Rachel M. Swanger and Takashi Kawakami @ Rand, “Japan and Ballistic Missile Defense,” p.RAND)</span>
<span style="font-family: Utopia-Regular,serif;">Finally, </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Japanese participation in a successful … **efforts are worthless and wasteful**</span></span><span style="font-family: Utopia-Regular,serif;">.5</span>

**Nuclear war**
**Utgoff ‘2**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Victor – deputy director for strategy, forces and resources division at the Institute for Defense Analysis, Survival, p. OUP Journals) </span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Widespread proliferation is likely to … cities or even whole nations</span></span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3 is Solvency </span>__**

Withdrawal of US forces from Japan except where strategically necessary uniquely results in improved relations with Japan 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Simpson, 2010</span></span> [Dan, a former U.S. ambassador, is a Post-Gazette associate editor; “Let’s Draw Down Our Forces in Japan; As a matter of fact, we have way too many troops in way too many places,” Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, March 17; Accessed online at LN]</span>
All in all, the new … <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">where they have been forever.</span></span>

Absent the plan hegemonic protection collapse is inevitable 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feffer 6/10</span></span> (john; <span style="color: black;">Ph.D. co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, taught an international conflict graduat</span>e course at Sungkonghoe University in Seoul, lectured at NYU and Cornell“Okinawa and the new domino effect,” [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html|http://w ww.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html]]<span style="color: black;">)AB</span> </span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">During the Cold War, the … mark and will soon recede. </span></span>


**<span style="color: black;">We solve rapid-response capabilities and local support for Kadena </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Mochizuki and O’Hanlon 2010</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Mike, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Associate Professor of Political Science and International Affairs at the George Washington University, and <span style="color: black;">Michael, Director of Research and a Senior Fellow on Foreign Policy at the Brookings Institution, January 2010,</span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">“</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">A proposed compromise on Futenma: The unnecessary crisis,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://elliott.gwu.edu/assets/docs/news/mochizuki_futenma_orientalEconomist_0110.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)PS </span>

But the desirability of such … <span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">and at Kadena in particular. </span></span>

**All of their arguments about the strategic necessity of our Marines are self-fulfilling; the plan creates the perfect compromise that gives Japan the ability to its own defense and shores up the alliance**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">[[http://www.cato.org/people/doug-bandow|Bandow]] 5/10</span></span> (Doug; //<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt; font-style: normal;">is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books, </span>//including [[http://store.cato.org/index.asp?fa=ProductDetails&method=cats&scid=19&pid=144156|Tripwire: Korea and U.S. Foreign Policy in a Changed World]](Cato) and [[http://store.cato.org/index.asp?fa=ProductDetails&pid=1441235&method=search&t=korean&a=&k=&aeid=&adv=&pg=|The Korean Conundrum: America's Troubled Relations with North and South Korea]]; [[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11804]]; “Japan can defend itself”)AB </span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Whatever the justifications of this … time for Washington to deliver.</span></span>

==Email Exchange with Peter Ennis== 


from Pedro Segura <qsure123@gmail.com> 
to [[mailto:ennisp@toyo-keizai.com|ennisp@toyo-keizai.com]]
date Fri, Jan 14, 2011 at 3:45 PM 
subject Your Opinion on Public Backlash Against the Kadena Airbase on Okinawa 
mailed-by gmail.com 

<span style="color: black;">Hello Mr. Ennis, My name is Pedro Segura and I am a high school policy debater. This year's debate topic centers around US military presence in Japan and other countries. My team and I argue that a removal of American Marine presence from the Okinawa prefecture, including that stationed at Futenma, would prevent animosity from the Okinawan public from spilling over and causing the US-Japanese alliance further damage. Absent an immediate resolution to the Futenma issue, we argue that strategically important American bases elsewhere on Japan, specifically the Yokosuka naval base and the Kadena air base, will experience backlash from an angry public. We use excerpts from your November 29, 2010 Dispatch Japan article, "Okinawa: Why the Nakaima win spells trouble" to elaborate upon the specific ways that public sentiment can spill over and harm the alliance, with Prime Minister Naoto Kan's upcoming visit to Washington and the potential malleability of the newly reelected Okinawan governor, Hirokazu Nakaima, to public anti-base sentiment.</span>

<span style="color: black;">My question is, should the Futenma issue be spotlessly resolved, how would this affect anti-base sentiment in Japan as a whole, specifically in other cities with American bases? I understand that the Kadena air base, whose strategic necessity was asserted in your August 2010 article, "Gates and Japan," is rather large and is centered in the towns of Kadena and Chatan, and has already been the object of sizable local protests and activism. Would a perceived victory for anti-base movement embolden such anti-base rhetoric? And if it did, would the Japanese government be willing to go through another political mess like the one associated with Futenma to sate anti-Kadena movements?</span>

<span style="color: black;">I thank you sincerely in advance for your time. If you can provide your opinion, I would like to share this exchange with other debaters on a blog, with your consent. It could be very valuable educationally for many people and we really appreciate your time.</span>

<span style="color: black;">Cheers,</span>
<span style="color: #888888;"> Pedro Segura </span>




|| from Peter Ennis <ennisp@toyo-keizai.com> 
to [[mailto:qsure123@gmail.com|qsure123@gmail.com]]
date Fri, Jan 14, 2011 at 11:23 PM 
subject bases in Japan ||

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Pedro,</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> My pleasure to try to answer your excellent, pointed questions.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> First off, it is not clear what a "spotless" resolution of the Futenma would look like.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Leaving that aside, a resolution of Futenma that was widely perceived by Okinawans as "fair," would greatly reduce anti-base sentiment on Okinawa, and almost certainly do the same on the four mainland islands of Japan, where anti-base sentiment is significantly lower than that on Okinawa. In other words, a "fair" resolution of the Futenma issue would go a long way toward putting the US base presence in Japan overall on a stable foundation politically for many years to come.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> It should be emphasized that the main source of tension over the US force presence in Japan is the heavy concentration of US facilities in Okinawa prefecture (state), and particularly on the main island of Okinawa. Of all of the territory in Japan overall taken up by US military facilties (less than 1% of Japan's total territory), 75% of the land is concentrated in Okinawa prefecture. On the main prefectural island, not surprisingly also named Okinawa, a full 20% of the total island territory is taken up by US military facilities.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> At the site of other major US facilties in Japan, including Yokusuka, Misawa air base, the Atsugi naval air station, the Iwakuni Marine Air Station, the Yokoto US Air base, and the US Army Camp Zama (all on the main island of Honshu), there is very little anti-base sentiment.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Yokosuka, for example, is an old navy city, formerly the location of major basing for the Imperial Japanese Navy. The local citizens around Yokosuka are respectful of the US sailors.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Okinawa is quite different. First there is long-standing cultural distance between Okinawans and Japanese on the main islands, the result of which is a deep feeling, rarely expressed, that Okinawans are not "really" Japanese. Toward the end of World War II, Okinawans came to believe that the main island residents essentially sacrificed Okinawans. The Battle of Okinawa caused enormous death and destruction in Okinawa.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> As the post-World War II period progressed, the heavy US base presence on the main islands, including in Tokyo, greatly receded, while that on Okinawa did not change much.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> This has led to a feeling among Okinawans that they, and their territory, bear the brunt of the burden of hosting US bases, which are crucial to the alliance. The residents of the main islands benefit from the alliance, but bear a much, much smaller burden in the form of US bases, than do the main islands.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> All of this tension finally erupted in September 1995, at the time of the brutal rape of a young Japanese woman by four US servicemen based on Okinawa.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> To reduce the pressure-cooker of tension that finally erupted due to the rape, the US knew it had to make a dramatic gesture. Then-Prime Minister Hatoyama proposed to the US that the Futenma facility be closed, as its location in the middle of Ginowan city poses enormous problems; an airplane or helicopter crash would cause enormous physical, human, and political damage.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> The US finally agreed to close Futenma, and protracted negotiations ensued concerning where to relocate the operations then based at Futenma.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> In the end, the two side decided to move the operations Camp Schwab, also on Okinawa.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> After more than 15 years, that is where the issue remains.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> The most controversial aspect of the projected replacement for Futenma is that it would entail construction of a new facility, in beautiful Henoko Bay, which struck many Okinawans as yet another sign of failure to consider their sentiments in the matter.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> The Kadena base is quite large, and has been the focus of some protests. But there is a broad consensus that the antipathy directed at Kadena is manageable, especially if the Futenma issue is resolved in a "fair" way.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Kadena is also located on Okinawa, and some US officials have expressed concern that Kadena would be the next focus on anti-base sentiment on Okinawa should the US "retreat" on the Futenma issue. But there is not strong evidence to support that assertion.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Rather than fueling anti-base activists to target new facilities, a decision by the US to alter the current Futenma replacement plans and make a new, "fair" arrangement would actually reduce the broader anti-base heat on Okinawa.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Remember, much of the sentiment on Okinawa now directed at US bases is actually a reflection of anger about perceived mistreatment of and discrimination against Okinawa by toward Tokyo and mainland Japan.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> The devil is always in the details, and what would constitute "fair" concerning Futenma is no different. But it could be done.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> The general sentiment on Okinawa is not anti-American. The sentiment is not heavily against the US-Japan alliance. The goal of most Okinawans is to end the discrimination toward them by the mainland, not to evict all US bases.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> A fair resolution of the Futenma issue would not eliminate all animosity directed at Kadena and other bases, on Okinawa. But it would go a long way toward forging a durable consensus that a modified, realigned base presence in Japan is legitimate. A fair agreement would relegate remaining anti-base opponents out of the mainstream of Okinawan public opinion and more to the fringe of public opinion.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Keeping in mind that anti-base sentiment in Japan is largely restricted to Okinawa, a resolution of the Futenma issue would, for the foreseeable future, greatly reduce tension around the base issue overall.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> I hope this helps.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> Feel free to get back to me with any further questions. Let me know how things turn out.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> All the best,</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;"> PETER ENNIS</span>




<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">My question is, should the Futenma issue be spotlessly resolved, </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">how </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">would this affect anti-base sentiment in Japan as a whole, </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">specifically in other cities with American bases? I understand that </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">the Kadena air base, whose strategic necessity was asserted in your </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">August 2010 article, "Gates and Japan," is rather large and is </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">centered in the towns of Kadena and Chatan, and has already been the </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">object of sizable local protests and activism. Would a perceived </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">victory for anti-base movement embolden such anti-base rhetoric? And </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">if it did, would the Japanese government be willing to go through </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">another political mess like the one associated with Futenma to sate </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Courier New'; font-size: 10pt;">anti-Kadena movements? </span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Bookman Old Style',serif; font-size: 10pt;">PETER ENNIS</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Bookman Old Style',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> US Correspondent/Columnist</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Bookman Old Style',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> //Weekly Toyo Keizai//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Bookman Old Style',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> Writer/Publisher</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Bookman Old Style',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> //Dispatch Japan//</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(</span><span style="color: #0658b5; font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://www.dispatchjapan.com/| www.dispatchjapan.com]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Century Gothic',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Bookman Old Style',serif; font-size: 10pt;">516-921-2622</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Bookman Old Style',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 917-570-5098 (cell)</span>

==2AC Cites== 
===2AC Anthropocentrism=== 


<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**1.** **Evolutionary biology proves domination is inevitable** </span>
**__Thayer, ‘4__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bradley, Associate Professor for the Department of Defense & Strategic Studies and a former Fellow @ the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, Darwin and International Relations: On the Evolutionary Origins of War and Ethnic Conflict]</span>

**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Evolutionary theory</span>__**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> allows **realists**</span> …**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> their own decisions.</span>**__

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**2.** **Only humans have to cognitive ability to make moral decisions to preserve their environment – saves all organisms** </span>
**__Younkins, 04__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of Business Administration, Wheeling Jesuit (Edward, The Flawed Doctrine of Nature's Intrinsic Value, Quebecois Libre 147, http://www.quebecoislibre.org/04/041015-17.htm, gender modified) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Environmentalists erroneously assign …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> underlying nihilism of the environmental movement.</span>__

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**3.** **Their link evidence is nonsensical – either humans and animals are morally equivalent in which case the laws of nature make domination inevitable or humans are superior in which case we win** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Neil </span>**__Schulman, 1995__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “The Illogic of Animal Rights”, http://www.pulpless.com/jneil/aniright.html </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">If human beings are no …Animal rights" do not exist in either case</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**4.** **Alt causes human extinction – animals are necessary for food and labor** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alex </span>**__Epstein__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior writer at Ayn Rand Institute) </span>**__and__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yaron </span>**__Brook__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (ex director of Ayn Rand Institute) </span>**__2001__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “The Evil of Animal Rights”, [[http://www.aynrand.org/medialink/evilofanimalrights.shtml]]] *Gender modified </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It is common to write off …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">an be the annihilation of man</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**5.** **Alternative fails – anthropocentrism is inevitable** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eugene </span>**__Hargrove 2003__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Weak Antrhopecentric Intrinsic Value” Blackwell Synergy </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I have used the term weak anthropocentrism…</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">that a nonhuman might look at the world.</span>__

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**6.** **Alternative collapses into totalitarianism – it makes enforcement of rights impossible** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David R. </span>**__Schmahmann and__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lori J. </span>**__Polacheck__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a partner in the firm of Nutter, McLennan & Fish, Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review, SPRING, </span>**__1995__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *gender modified </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the end, however, it is the aggregate …</span> __place of the human being and the Colorado beetle__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 26 </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**7.** **Human values are necessary to prevent destruction of the universe** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span>**__Zey__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (sociologist and executive director of the Expansionary Institute) </span>**__2001__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Man’s Evolutionary Path Into the Universe, The Futurist </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hence, </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">human will is the ultimate determinant </span>… this new world, our values will shape it__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**8.** **Turn - Economy** </span>
# **Animal rights destroys the economy** 
**__University of Wisconson, 2001__** [http://www.uwm.edu/~nelsonkj/economy.html 

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Animal products are a vital part of our economy</span>…__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">meatpackers and importers” (Heykoop, 1). </span>

# **Extinction** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">T.E. </span>**__Bearden__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (LTC U.S. Army (ret) Director of Association of Distinguished American Scientists and Fellow Emeritus, Alpha Foundation’s Institute for Advanced Study) </span>**__2000__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How to Solve It Quickly”, 6-24-2k, http://www.seaspower.com/EnergyCrisis-Bearden.htm </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">History bears out that desperate nations …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the biosphere</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at least for many decades </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;">**9.** **Turn – Hard Power** </span>
# **The alternative crushes military and combat readiness and ensures terrorism globally** 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michelle </span>**__Malkin__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (conservative American columnist, blogger, author, Republican and political commentator) August 2, </span>**__2002__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Protecting Squid Before Sailors” http://www.capmag.com/article.asp?ID=1770 </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Osama </span>__bin Laden gets help from the strangest creatures…over spineless invertebrates -- human and otherwise__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">? </span>

# **Heg collapse causes nuclear war** 
Zalmay **__Khalilzad 1995__**, RAND, Washington Quarterly, Spring 

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the third option, the United … or a multipolar balance of power system. </span>

# **Terrorism Causes Extinction** 
**__Sid-Ahmed__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, political analyst </span>**__04__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Mohamed, Managing Editor for Al-Ahali, “Extinction!” August 26-September 1, Issue no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm) </span>

__What would be the consequences of a nuclear …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>







===2AC Resonance Communities (Versus Dumas Round 5 TFA State)=== 


**The attitude that the political is “not enough” leads to a decline in the public sphere and dismissal of politics that traps us in a prison house of thought**  
**McCann and Szalay, ‘5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sean, Associate professor of English and Director of American Studies at Wesleyan University & Michael, Associate professor of English and Director of the Humanities Center at the University of California, Irvine, The Yale Journal of Criticism, 18.2, p. 456-459)  </span>

No surprise, then, that as in the larger …__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">olklore of the late capitalist economy</span>.__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span>

**Extinction** 
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Small ‘6 </span></span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Jonathan, former Americorps VISTA for the Human Services Coalition, “Moving Forward,” //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">The Journal for Civic Commitment</span>//, Spring, [[http://www.mc.maricopa.edu/other/engagement/Journal/Issue7/Small.jsp]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">What will be the challenges of the new millennium… stages of a project that seeks to do just that.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">  </span>


**The neg’s project fails—the debate community is forgetful. Using it destroys coalition building—turns alt** 
**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";">Atchison and Panetta 09</span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, “Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 317-334)</span></span><span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";"> </span>

This section will address the "debate as activism…participants is the best strategy for addressing important problems. 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span> 
**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";"><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">Perm: Vote aff as an affirmation of withdrawing Marines from Japan and use the neg’s advocacy outside of competitive forums—this is the best way to solve the alt</span></span>**
**<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman","serif";">Atchison and Panetta 09 </span>**<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, “Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 30-32)</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 112%; margin-bottom: 1.8pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 1.8pt; mso-pagination: none; text-align: justify; text-autospace: none;"><span style="color: black;"> </span></span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">Tournaments that already have banquets …<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">a shared community experience for the debaters.</span> </span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;"> </span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">
</span></span>
**Nomadism fails—engage me political Chris**  
**Peter <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hallward</span></span>**, Professor in the Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy at Middlesex University, London, <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span></span>, Out of This World: Deleuze and the Philosophy of Creation, p. 162-164 
<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> </span>
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Deleuze writes a philosophy of (virtual) difference …will need to look for our inspiration elsewhere</span></span>. 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span>
T**urn, Project Mayhem:** 
**a) A politics of lines of flight inevitably restratifies and turns into what it opposes – their transcendence of boundaries can’t happen without tons of violence. They start out as Fight Club but turn into Project Mayhem.**  
Bülent **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diken</span></span>**, lecturer in Sociology at Lancaster University,<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and</span></span> Carsten Bagge <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Laustsen</span></span>, Ph.D. student at the University of Copenhagen, Department of Political Sciences, September **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span></span>**, online: http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/sociology/papers/Diken-Laustsen-Enjoy-Your-Fight.pdf, accessed August 24, 2004 
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Fight Club is constructed along a </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">…</span></span> hours between when fight club starts and when fight club ends” (Palahniuk 1997: 48). 

**b) The impact to this arg is huge – the desire to achieve a plane of pure immanence cannot be brought into being without a massively violent clearing away of all remnants of transcendence.**  
William **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rasch</span></span>**, Professor of Germanic Studies at the University of Indiana, **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2004</span></span>**, Sovereignty and Its Discontents, p. 104-107 
Gilles <span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Deleuze</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 10pt;"> and</span></span> Felix <span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Guattari</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; font-size: 10pt;"> offer</span></span> a similar invitation…<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">how is order nevertheless possible?</span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;"> </span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">
</span>

**This argument turns and outweighs their business – war machines against the state turn lines of flight into lines of death.**  
Bülent **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diken</span></span>**, lecturer in Sociology at Lancaster University,<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and</span></span> Carsten Bagge **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Laustsen</span></span>**, Ph.D. student at the University of Copenhagen, Department of Political Sciences, September **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2001</span></span>**, online: http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/sociology/papers/Diken-Laustsen-Enjoy-Your-Fight.pdf, accessed August 24, 2004 
Interestingly, whereas the movie clearly makes a self-…way the logic of the cut works in the film. 

**Their alternative seeks a plane of pure immanence away from the stratifications and territorializations endemic to Western thought, yet, the creation of such a space is a political task through-and-through. A politics of hospitality that gives space to alterity is the best way to open onto a future of immanence.** 
Jeffrey **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atteberry</span></span>**, Lecturer in Comparative Literature at the University of California-Irvine, **<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2003</span></span>**, Critical Horizons, Vol. 4, No. 2, p. 219-20 
<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">The reformulation of power found in Deleuze and </span><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">…</span></span> powerlessness which is actually constitutive of any community. 





== == 
==Torture 1AC- UT Doubles vs Greenhill BS== 
[[#_Toc269368301]][[#_Toc269290034]]

**Contention one is Inherency**


**Torture is still happening secretly in Afghanistan despite the closure of Guantanamo.**
**<span class="Author-Date">Gebauer </span>****et al. <span class="Author-Date"><span style="text-decoration: none;">2009</span></span>**, (Matthias, John, Britta; journalist at Der Spiefel; “Prisoner Abuse Continues at Bagram Prison in Afghanistan,” 9/21, [[http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/0,1518,650242,00.html]]) 

<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">Bagram is "the forgotten second Guantanamo</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">,"</span></span> <span class="cardChar">says American military law expert Eugene Fidell, a professor at Yale Law School. "But apparently there is a continuing need for this sort of place even under the Obama administration." From the beginning, "Bagram was worse than Guantanamo," says New York-based attorney Tina Foster, who has argued several cases on behalf of detainee rights in US courts</span>. "<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">Bagram has always been a torture chamber.</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">" And what does </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> say? Nothing. He never so much as mentions Bagram</span></span> in any of his speeches. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">When discussing America's mistreatment of detainees, he </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">only refers to Guantanamo </span></span>Classified Location <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Bagram</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> detention facility, by now the largest American military prison outside the United States, </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">is not marked on any map</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">s</span></span>. <span class="cardChar">In fact, its precise location, somewhere on the periphery of the giant air base northeast of the Afghan capital, is classified. It comprises two sand-colored buildings that resemble airplane hangars, surrounded by tall concrete walls and green camouflage tarps. The facility was set up in 2002 as a temporary prison on the grounds of a former Soviet air base. Today, the two buildings contain large cages, each with the capacity to hold 25 to 30 prisoners. Up to 1,000 detainees can be held at Bagram at any one time. The detainees sleep on mats, and there is one toilet behind a white curtain for each cage. A $60 million extension is expected to be completed by the end of the year. Unlike Guantanamo, Bagram is located in the middle of the Afghan war zone. But not all the inmates were captured in combat areas. Many terrorism suspects are from other countries and were transported to Bagram for interrogation after being captured. Since the military prison first came into operation, all the detainees there have been classified as "enemy combatants" rather than prisoners of war, which would make them subject to the provisions of the Geneva Convention. Bagram's most prominent temporary detainee to date was Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the self-proclaimed chief architect of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. After</span> his arrest in Pakistan, Mohammed <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">was initially taken to Bagram for three days </span></span>and was then held at a secret prison in Poland before being flown to Guantanamo. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">He told representatives of the Red Cross that he was beaten in Afghanistan, suspended from shackles attached to his hands and sexually humiliated. "I was made to lie on the floor," he said. "A tube was inserted into my anus and water poured inside." "In my view, having visited Guantanamo several times</span></span>, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the Bagram facility made Guantanamo look like a nice hotel," says military prosecutor Stuart Couch, who was given access to the interior of both facilities. "The men did not appear to be allowed to move around at will, they mostly sat in rows on the floor. It smelled like the "monkey house" at the zoo."</span></span> Sleep Deprivation and Sexual Humiliation <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">From th<span style="border: medium none;">e beginning, Bagram was notorious for the brutal forms of torture employed there. Former inmates report incidents of sleep deprivation, beatings and various forms of sexual humiliation. </span></span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">In some cases, an interrogator would place his penis along the face of the detainee while he was being questioned. Other inmates were raped with sticks or threatened with anal sex</span></span>. Omar Khadr, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">a Canadian inmate who was 15 at the time, says military personal used him as a living mop. "Military police poured pine oil on the floor and on me. And then, with me lying on my stomach with my hands and feet cuffed together behind me, the military police dragged me back and forth through the mixture of urine and pine oil on the floor." At least two men died during imprisonment.</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">One of them, a 22-year-old taxi driver named Dilawar, was suspended by his hands from the ceiling for four days, during which US military personnel repeatedly beat his legs. Dilawar died on Dec. 10, 2002. In the autopsy report, a military doctor wrote that the tissue on his legs had basically been "pulpified." As it happens, his interrogators had already known -- and later testified -- that there was no evidence against Dilawar.</span></span> According to an internal military investigation of the <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">prisoner abuse cases at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, which triggered worldwide outrage when it became public in 2004, the practices there were inspired by the treatment of inmates at Bagram. </span></span>Hundreds of Innocent Inmates <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">To this day, there are hardly any photos from inside Bagram</span></span>, and journalists have never been given access to the detention center. Although exact numbers are unknown, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">there are </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">believed to be </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">about 600 detainees at Bagram</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, or close to three times as many as there currently are at Guantanamo. According to an as-yet-unpublished 2009 Pentagon report, 400 of the Bagram inmates are innocent and could be released immediately</span></span>. <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">The detainees</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> at Bagram still </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">have no</span></span> right to an attorney, which means that they have <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">no </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">legal recourse against their imprisonment and no opportunity to tes<span style="border: medium none;">tify</span></span></span> in their cases. <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">Some have been there for years, without knowing why. </span></span>

[[#_Toc269368302]]
**And, these prisoners aren’t actually terrorists or threats.**
**Gregory 2004** (Derek, professor of geography at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver and writer, "The angel of Iraq" Environment and Planning D: Society and Space 22(3) 317 – 324)DAD 

An angel is a hideously appropriate icon for Bush's Holy War. Anyone who objects that the prisoners <span class="underline">at Abu Ghraib are hardly angels </span>(which is not my point in any case) needs to know that most of them have simply been caught up in the army of occupation's perpetual sweeps and searches often just bystanders in the wrong place (even if it was their place) at the wrong time. Some intelligence officers have told the Red Cross that 70-90% of all prisoners detained <span class="underline">in Iraq</span> ``had been arrested by mistake'' (ICRC, 2004). Most of them are not terrorists, insurgents, or violent criminals. And, even if they were, torturing them would still be illegal, and it would still constitute a war crime. As Lisa Hajjer emphasizes, under international law this is an absolute not a conditional provision: ``No one ever, anywhere has a `right' to torture, and everyone always, everywhere has a right not to be tortured'' (2004).(1) When Benjamin wrote his essay, in a Europe trembling at the advance of a feral fascism, he was working towards a concept of history that could do justice to the traditions of the oppressed. I am interested here in a concept of geography adequate to these excesses that can trace the contours of power from the spaces of modern states down to the intimacies of human bodies. 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="tagChar">There are detention facilities throughout Afghanistan some with more than a thousand troops—this network will only continue to grow</span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"> Adrian <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Levy and</span></span> Cathy Scott-<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Clark</span></span> (The Guardian, Saturday 19 March 20<span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">05</span></span>, 'One huge US jail' [[@http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2005/mar/19/terrorism.afghanistan]])JOHN AYALA CUT THIS CARD. WHAT A BEAASSTTT</span>


<span class="underline">Prisoner transports crisscross the country between a proliferating network of detention facilities. In addition to the camps in Gardez, there are thought to be US holding facilities in the cities of Khost, Asadabad and Jalalabad, as well as an official US detention centre in Kandahar, where the tough regime has been nicknamed "Camp Slappy" by former prisoners. There are 20 more facilities in outlying US compounds and fire bases that complement a major "collection centre" at Bagram air force base</span>. The CIA has one facility at Bagram and another, known as the "Salt Pit", in an abandoned brick factory north of Kabul. M<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">ore than 1,500 prisoners from Afghanistan and many other countries are thought to be held in such jails, although no one knows for sure because the US military declines to comment…Camp Salerno, which houses the 1,200 troops of US Combined Taskforce Thunder, was being expanded when we arrived. </span></span>Army tents were being replaced with concrete dormitories. The detention facility, concealed behind a perimeter of opaque green webbing, was being modernized and enlarged. Ensconced in a Soviet-era staff building was the camp's commanding officer, Colonel Gary Cheeks. He listened calmly as we asked about the allegations of torture, deaths and disappearances at US detention facilities including Salerno. We read to him from a complaint made by a UN official in Kabul that accused the US military of using "cowboy-like excessive force". He eased forward in his chair: "There have been some tragic accidents for which we have apologized. Some people have been paid compensation." 
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">1AC - Plan Text (2/19) </span>
[[#_Toc269368303]]
[[#_Toc269368304]][[#_Toc269290035]]
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">1AC - Torture (3/19) </span>
<span class="Underline0">**Contention Two is Torture:** </span>

**Torture in the name of national security is an ethical fallacy—it turns people into pawns, robs the tortured of dignity and dehumanizes them.**
**<span class="Author-Date">Evans, 2010</span><span class="Underline0"> (Rebecca Evans, </span>**Assitant Professor of Politics and International Relations at Ursinus College, “The Ethics of Torture”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.du.edu/korbel/hrhw/volumes/2007/evans-2007.pdf]]</span>, accessed 8/8/10)PS 

Torture has once again become a timely topic. <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">The “War on Terror”</span></span> launched after September 11, 2001 has <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">renewed a</span></span> philosophical and political <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">debate</span></span>, in the United States and elsewhere, <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">about whether torture is ever justified</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The basic parameters of this debate revolve around the question whether there should be an absolute prohibition against torture or whether, under carefully specified circumstances, it is a lesser evil to torture a suspect for information to prevent a greater evil that menaces society. A position of moral absolutism holds that individuals must “do things only when they are right” rather than calculating the consequences of their actions </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">(Nye 2005: 21). </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Such a perspective condemns torture as an unacceptable practice, arguing that</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> torture and related ab<span style="border: medium none;">uses should be absolutely banned because they are antithetical to the entire concept of human rights. Rights define the limits beyond which no government should venture. To breach those limits in the name of some utilitarian calculus is to come dangerously<span style="border: medium none;"> close to the ends-justify-the-means rationale of terrorism</span></span></span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. By contrast</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">, a society that rejects torture affirms the essential dignity and humanity of each individual (xiii). Torture is morally unjustified, therefore, because it “dehumanizes people by trea<span style="border: medium none;">ting them as pawns </span></span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to be manipulated through their pain” (xii). This perspective is reflected in the absolute moral imperatives laid out in various international conventions.</span></span> The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights stipulates, in unqualified terms, that “no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment” (Article 5). The Geneva Conventions of 1949 not only provide protection for enemy combatants and civilians but also instruct that unlawful combatants must be “treated with humanity and…shall not be deprived of the rights of fair and regular trial” (Fourth Geneva Convention, Article 5). The 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights prohibits torture even “during public emergencies that threaten the life of the nation” (Articles 4 and 7). Similarly, the 1984 Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment insists that “no exceptional circumstances whatsoever, whether a state of war or a threat of war, internal political instability of any other public emergency, may be invoked as a justification of torture” (Article 2). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Yet, despite these unconditional prohibitions, torture persists. Countries that have ratified treaties outlawing torture are in some cases actually more likely to use torture than countries which have not joined such international conventions</span></span> (Hathaway 2004: 201-202). Although despotic and totalitarian regimes are the worst offenders, these are not the only kinds of regimes which find it expedient to use torture from time to time<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. Despite their support for human rights and rule of law,</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> democratic countries have also adopted repressive policies, especially in times of perceived insecurity</span></span> (Forsythe 2006: 467). Given the gap between rhetoric and reality, some scholars have called for a more pragmatic approach, arguing that the use of torture should be regulated rather than proscribed. Alan Dershowitz maintains that the better question to ask is whether torture should be allowed to continue “below the radar screen, without political accountability” or whether to require authorization from top political or judicial leaders as a precondition to the infliction of any type of torture. From Dershowitz’s perspective, torture will inevitably occur, so a more “realistic” emphasis on accountability is important for reducing hypocrisy and minimizing the occurrence of torture (Dershowitz 2004: 259, 266-267)<span style="color: red;">. </span>
[[#_Toc269368306]][[#_Toc269326989]][[#_Toc269290302]][[#_Toc269290175]][[#_Toc269290037]]<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> (4/19) </span>
**Justifying these things for the sake of “civilization” results in continued dehumanization and inevitable violence.**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Butler ‘09</span></span> (Judith, Professor of comparative literature @ U. of Berkeley; Frames of War; published 2009; pg. )PS** </span>

One reality we see in these photos is that of rules being ignored or broken. So the photographs function, in part, as a way of registering a certain lawlessness. What is the significance of the fact that the rules, such as they are, that were used to develop policy in Abu Ghraib were originally developed for Guantanamo? In Guantanamo, the US claimed not to be bound by the Geneva Conventions, and in Iraq it is clear that, though legally bound by those Conventions, the US defied the standards stipulated by them in its treatment of Iraqi prisoners. The legal move by which the US claimed that prisoners at Camp Delta were not entitled to protection under the Geneva Conventions is one that institutes the expectation that those prisoners are less than human. They are considered enemies of the state, but they are also not conceptualizable in terms of the civilizational and racial norms by which the human is constituted. In this sense, their status as less than human is not only presupposed by the torture, but reinstituted by it. And here we have to see-as Adorno cautioned us-that violence in the name of civilization reveals its own barbarism, even as it "justifies" its own violence by presuming the barbaric subhumanity of the other against whom that violence is waged.26 

[[#_Toc269368307]][[#_Toc269290038]]
**Berube 9**7 (Professor of Communication at South Carolina) 1997 (David, Ph.D. in Communications, “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side”, NanoTechnology Magazine, June/July 1997, p. 1-6, URL: http://www.cla.sc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm) 

<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-color: white; background-image: none; background-position: 0% 0%;">This means-ends dispute is at the core of Montagu and Matson's treatise on the <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">dehumanization</span></span> of humanity. They warn: <span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in;">"its destructive toll is already greater than that of any war, plague, famine, or natural calamity on record -- and its potential danger to the quality of life and the fabric of civilized society is beyond calculation</span>. For that reason this sickness of the soul might well be called the Fifth Horseman of the Apocalypse.... Behind the genocide of the holocaust lay a dehumanized thought; beneath the menticide of deviants and dissidents... in the cuckoo's next of America, lies a dehumanized image of man... (Montagu & Matson, 1983, p. xi-xii). While it may never be possible to quantify the impact dehumanizing ethics may have had on humanity, it is safe to conclude the foundations of humanness offer great opportunities which would be foregone. When we calculate the actual losses and the virtual benefits, we approach a nearly inestimable value greater than any tools which we can currently use to measure it. Dehumanization is nuclear war, environmental apocalypse, and international genocide. When people become things, they become dispensable. When people are dispensable, any and every atrocity can be justified. Once justified, they seem to be inevitable for every epoch has evil and dehumanization is evil's most powerful weapon. </span>

[[#_Toc269368309]][[#_Toc269290040]][[#_Toc269290039]]<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Torture (7/19) </span>
**Torture is the crucial internal link between the slide from a benign biopolitics of life to necropolitical extermination of dangerous populations—torture is where biopolitics draws the line between who is allowed to live and die.**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Morton 2008</span></span>, (**Stephen; Senior Lecturer in Anglophone Literatures, University of Southampton; “Torture, Terrorism snd Colonial Sovereignty**,”** //Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society//, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 192-194) 

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">It is precisely this understanding of the political that Foucault articulates in his definition of racism as a ‘way of introducing a break between the domain of life that is under power’s control</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">: the break between what must live and what m<span style="border: medium none;">ust die’</span></span></span> (SMBD, 254). <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">What </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">this distinction between the biopolitical and the necropolitical implies is that it is a sovereign who defines the break between these categories</span></span>: <span class="cardChar">not a monarch, but a colonial sovereign such as an administrator, judge, policeman or soldier. Indeed, Foucault’s observation that ‘Racism first develops with colonization, or . . . colonizing genocide’ (SMBD, 257) assumes the presence of sovereign power that presides over colonisation and genocide. Yet to represent the exercise of sovereign power that Foucault describes is perhaps to make a spectacle of suffering and to become complicit with state terrorism. As the South African writer J. M. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Coetzee argues in ‘Into the Dark Chamber’, ‘there is something tawdry about following the state in this way, making its vile mysteries the occasion of fantasy</span></span>’.20 Against this relationship of complicity, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Coetzee asserts that </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">the challenge facing the writer concerned with torture is ‘not to play the game by the rules of the state . . . to establish on<span style="border: medium none;">e’s own authority . . . and to imagine torture and death on one’s own terms’</span></span></span>.<span class="cardChar">21 Of the South African novels that Coetzee claims have aestheticised torture and violence, Alex La Guma’s In the Fog of the Season’s End is singled out for its ‘dark lyricism’:22 ‘It is as though, in avoiding the trap of ascribing an evil grandeur to the police, La Guma finds it necessary to displace that grandeur, in an equivalent but negative form, onto their surroundings, lending to the very flatness of their world hints of a metaphysical depth’.23 Coetzee’s critique of La Guma is illuminating in its ethical caution against the aestheticisation of violence, but it overlooks the way in which La Guma reveals the violent foundation of the colonial state in order to promote resistance to the apartheid regime in South Africa. In the prologue, for instance, La Guma reveals the violence of the colonial state through the detectives’ clipped address to the prisoner as they drive to the city limits: ‘ “No more lawyers. Those times are past . . . We even keep the magistrates away now” . . . “We’ll make you shit,” the driver said viciously’.24 In this minimal dialogue, La Guma not only registers the suspension of civil law and the threat of physical violence, but also the sovereign power of the police over the bodily life and functions of the colonised. In so doing, La Guma stresses how the political foundation of the South African state under apartheid is based on terror rather than democracy and the rule of law. As the prisoner asserts, ‘ “You are going to torture me, maybe kill me. But that is the only way you and your people can rule us. You shoot and kill and torture because you cannot rule in any other way a people who reject you.” ’25 In this speech, the prisoner, who is later revealed to be Elias, demystifies the violent foundations of the colonial state. Yet this is not to suggest that In the Fog of the Season’s End is merely concerned with the sovereign power of the torturer and the pain and suffering of the tortured prisoner. For the majority of the novel details the organisation of resistance to the apartheid state, and the scenes of torture also work to promote disaffection with the colonial regime. As Abdul JanMohamed puts it in Manichean Aesthetics, ‘in this novel the self-as-an-individual discovers his being in his existence for others, in his existence as a social being’.26 For JanMohamed, Elias not only achieves consciousness of ‘the social conditions in South Africa, but also of the only way out of those oppressive circumstances’.27 Indeed, it is Elias’s resistance to the will of his torturers at the end of the novel that signals his commitment to his comrades and to the struggle against the regime. In this sense, Elias gains sovereignty over his life (and death) by refusing to cooperate with the security forces. In doing so, Elias not only refuses the sovereign power of the torturer, but also the colonial system that the torturer represents. To be sure, in making torture visible to a reading public, writers such as Ngugi and La Guma would seem to challenge the apparent ‘disappearance of torture as a public spectacle’ that Foucault diagnoses in Discipline and Punish.28 Yet this challenge does not simply make a spectacle out of suffering (as Coetzee suggests). If, as Foucault argues in Discipline and Punish, physical pain and inflicting pain on the</span> body of the condemned is ‘no longer the constituent element of the penalty’ in various European legal systems,29 both Ngugi and La Guma foreground<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> the persistence of sovereign forms of vio<span style="border: medium none;">lence and resistance to that violence </span></span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">in the context of the European colony, even though the colonial state attempts to conceal that violence from public knowledge</span></span>. It is perhaps a little surprising that Foucault, writing in the 1970s in Discipline and Punish, makes no reference to the debate about the use of torture in French-occupied Algeria between Sartre, Fanon and de Beauvoir that became a part of public discourse on the French Left in the 
1950s and early 1960s; to the use of indefinite detention and torture in British-occupied Kenya during the 1950s; or to the routine use of state torture in South Africa in the aftermath of the pass laws and the Sharpeville massacre. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Yet, </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">if we re-read Foucault’s analysis of torture</span></span> in Discipline and Punish <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">in light of what he subsequently says about</span></span> racism in Society Must Be Defended – <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">as that which introduces ‘a break between the domain of life that is under power’s control: the break between what must live and what must die’</span></span> (SMBD, 254) <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">–</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> it becomes possible to find<span style="border: medium none;"> exceptions to the historical break between sovereign power and disciplinary power</span></span></span> that Foucault posits in Discipline and Punish. <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">Such exceptions</span></span> not only complicate the charge that Foucault’s analytic of power overlooks the persistence of sovereign power in the European colony, but also <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">demonstrates the way in which Foucault’s account of a race war helps to make sense of contemporary formations of biopolitical and necropolitical control. </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">1AC – Torture (8/19) </span>
**Ultimately, this slide into the dark side of biopolitics makes possible the worst forms of global violence—total warfare, genocide, and nuclear annihilation**

**<span class="underline">Marks 08 </span>,** Associate Professor in French, University of Nottingham, 2008 [John, “Michel Foucault: Biopolitics and Biology,” //Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society//, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 97-98] 
<span style="margin: 0in 0.5in 0.0001pt;">Although biopower in this sense has a relatively benign focus, it is undeniable that wars have become increasingly bloody and costly in terms of human life. In the nineteenth century the idea develops that war is a way of making one’s own ‘race’ stronger. The changes in the nature of warfare culminate in the phenomenon of so-called ‘total war’ in the first half of the twentieth century and the threat of global nuclear annihilation in the second half. Also, states become willing to carry out genocide on groups within their own population. As far as Foucault is concerned, this new right of death is simply the reverse side of the drive to foster and protect the life of the population. All wars become race wars, in that population is ranged against population. Also, war frequently becomes a question of racial survival. In short, there is a genocidal tendency that is inescapable in the exercise of modern power (SMBD, 257–8). The ‘racist’ logic of contemporary warfare depends on biological dimensions, and this logic is expressed most clearly in the rationale of Nazism. The Nazi state is faced with both internal and external ‘enemies’, and to a large degree it is not sufficient simply to defeat them; they must be exterminated in order to make the life of the Aryan race healthier and purer. What is more, as far as internal enemies are concerned, it is not only the weak, ‘degenerate’ fraction of the population that constitutes an internal danger, but potentially the entire population. In Nazi Germany this leads to the ‘Final Solution’, the plan to exterminate the Jewish ‘race’ and all other internal enemies of the Nazi state, and to the attempt to bring about the ‘suicide’ of the entire German population.12 </span>

Torture is the critical internal link to utilitarian security and threat construction 
Zizek 2006 (Slavoj Zizek; Senior Researcher at the Institute of Social Studies, Ljubljana, “The depraved heroes of 24 are the Himmlers of Hollywood”, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/media/2006/jan/10/usnews.comment]], accessed 9.11.10)PS 

<span class="underline">Such a sense of urgency has an ethical dimension. The pressure of events is so overbearing, the stakes so high, that they necessitate a kind of suspension of ordinary moral concerns; displaying such concerns when the lives of millions are at stake means playing into the hands of the enemy. <span style="text-decoration: none;">The CTU agents, as well as their terrorist opponents, live and act in a shadowy space not covered by the law, doing things that "simply have to be done" to save our societies from the threat of terrorism. This includes not only torturing terrorists when they are caught, but even torturing members of CTU</span></span> or their closest relatives if they are suspected of terrorist links. In the fourth season, among those tortured are the defence secretary's son-in-law and son (both with his full knowledge and support), and a female member of the CTU wrongly suspected of passing on information to terrorists. (When her innocence is revealed, she is asked to return to work immediately and accepts.) The CTU agents, after all, are dealing with <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the sort of "ticking-bomb" scenario evoked </span></span>by the Harvard law professor Alan Dershowitz <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">to justify torture</span></span> (why not torture someone who knows the location of a bomb that is just about to kill hundreds of thousands of people?). The agents treat themselves as expendable, ready to put their lives at stake if this will help to prevent an attack. Jack Bauer, (the agent and central character, played by Kiefer Sutherland), embodies this attitude. He not only tortures others but condones his superiors putting his own life at stake. In the fourth season, Bauer agrees to be delivered to China as a scapegoat for a CTU covert operation that killed a Chinese diplomat. He knows he will be tortured and imprisoned for life but promises not to say anything that might damage US interests. When he is informed by the ex-president of the US that someone has ordered him to be killed, his two closest CTU friends fake his death. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Both terrorist and CTU agents operate as examples of what the political philosopher Giorgio Agamben calls homo sacer - someone who can be killed with impunity since, in the eyes of the law, their life no longer counts. While they continue to act on behalf of the legal power, their acts are no longer constrained by the law</span></span>. It is here that we encounter the series' ideological lie: in spite of the CTU's ruthlessness, its agents, especially Bauer, are warm human beings - loving, caught in the emotional dilemmas of ordinary people. 24 should not be seen as a simple popular depiction of the sort of problematic methods the US resorts to in its "war on terror". Much more is at stake. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Recall the lesson of Apocalypse Now. The figure of Kurtz is not a remnant of some barbaric past. He was the perfect soldier but, through his over-identification with the military, he turned into the embodiment of the system's excess and threatened the system itself. The problem for those in power is how to get people do the dirty work without turning them into monsters</span></span>. This was Heinrich Himmler's dilemma. When confronted with the task of killing the Jews of Europe, the SS chief adopted the attitude of "somebody has to do the dirty job". In Hannah Arendt's book, Eichmann in Jerusalem, the philosopher describes how Nazi executioners endured the horrible acts they performed. Most were well aware that they were doing things that brought humiliation, suffering and death to their victims. The way out of this predicament was that, instead of saying "What horrible things I did to people!" they would say "What horrible things I had to watch in the pursuance of my duties, how heavily the task weighed upon my shoulders!" In this way, they were able to turn around the logic of resisting temptation: the temptation to be resisted was pity and sympathy in the presence of human suffering, the temptation not to murder, torture and humiliate.


<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">1AC – Torture </span>
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">And, this sovereign sense of precariousness culminates in endless warfare and nuclear first-striking </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Massumi 07 </span></span>**(Brian, Communication Department of the Université de Montréal , “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption”) 

It is certain that there will be adjustments. But it should be remembered that Bush referred to a change in "tactics," not a change in "strategy." <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Preemption remains the official military strategy of the United States.</span></span> It can be argued that preemption is in any case far more than a specific military doctrine of a particular administration. It can be plausibly argued that <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">preemption is an operative logic of power defining a political age</span></span> in as infinitely space-filling and insiduously infiltrating a way as the logic of "deterrence" defined the Cold War era. By an "operative" logic I mean <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">one that combines an ontology with an epistemology in such a way as to trace itself out as a self-propelling tendency</span></span> that is not in the sway of any particular existing formation but sweeps across them all and where possible sweeps them up in its own dynamic. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Preemption is not prevention. Although the goal of both is to neutralize threat, they fundamentally differ</span></span> epistemologically and ontologically. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Epistemologically, prevention assumes an ability to assess threats empirically and identify their causes. Once the causes are identified, appropriate curative methods are sought</span></span> to avoid their realization. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Prevention operates in an objectively knowable world in which uncertainty is a function of a lack of information, and in which events run a predictable, linear course from cause to effect.</span></span> As we will see, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">this is very different from the epistemological premise of preemption</span></span>, and entails a divergence from it on the ontological level as well. Prevention, in fact, has no ontology of its own because it assumes that what it must deal with has an objectively given existence prior to its own intervention. In practice, this means that its object is given to it predefined by other formations, in whose terms and on whose terrain it must then operate. A preventive approach to social conflict might analyze it, for example, as an effect of poverty, objectively quantifiable in terms of economic and health indexes. Each index is defined by a specialist formation (economics, medicine) in relation to a norm specific to that domain and against which goals may be set and success measured (annual income, mortality rates, life expectancy, etc.). The preventive measures will then operate as a political extension of the concerned specialist domains (economic analysis extended into politics as aid and development, medicine extended into vaccination programs, etc.). They will be regulated by the specialist logics proper to those fields. Prevention has no proper object, no operational sphere of its own, and no proprietary logic. It is derivative. It is a means toward a given end. Because of this, preventive measures are not self-sustaining. They must be applied. They must be leveraged from an outside source with outside force. They are not an organizing force in their own right. They run on borrowed power. Deterrence takes over at the end of this same process, when the means of prevention have failed. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Deterrence</span></span> makes use of the same epistemology prevention does, in that it assumes knowability and objective measurability. However, because it starts where prevention ends, it <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">has no margin of error. It must know with certainty because the threat is fully formed and ready to detonate: the enemy has the bomb and the means to deliver it. The imminence of the threat means that deterrence cannot afford to subordinate itself to objects, norms, and criteria passed on to it from other domains. If it did, its ability to respond with an immediacy proportional to the imminence of the threat would be compromised.</span></span> Since it would not hold the key to its own knowledge, in the urgency of the situation it would be haunted internally by the spectre of a possible incompleteness of the knowledge coming from the outside. Since its operations would be mediated by that outside domain, neither would it hold a direct key to its own actions. Since it would be responding to causes outside its specific purview, it would not be master of its own effects. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The only way to have the kind of epistemological immediacy necessary for deterrence is for its process to have its own cause and to hold it fast within itself.</span></span> <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">The quickest</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> and most direct </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">way for a process to acquire its own cause is for it to produce one</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. The easiest way to do this is to take the imminence of the very threat prevention has failed to neutralize and make it the foundation of a new process. In other words, the process must take the effect it seeks to avoid (nuclear annihilation) and organize itself around it, as the cause of its very own dynamic</span></span> (deterrence<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">). It must convert an effect that has yet to eventuate into a cause: a future cause.</span></span> Past causes are in any case already spoken for. They have been claimed as objects of knowledge and operational spheres by a crowded world of other already-functioning formations. Now for a future cause to have any palpable effect it must somehow be able act on the present. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This is much easier to do and much less mysterious than it might sound. You start by translating the threat into a clear and present danger. You do this by acquiring a capability to realize the threat rather than prevent it. If your neighbor has a nuke, you build the nuclear weaponry that would enable you to annihilate the adversary, even at the price of annihilating yourself by precipitating a "nuclear winter." </span></span>In fact, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the more capable you are of destroying yourself along with your enemy, the better. You can be certain the enemy will follow your lead </span></span>in acquiring the capability to annihilate you, and themselves as well. The imminent threat is then so imminent on both sides, so immediately present in its menacing futurity, that only a madman or suicidal regime would ever tip the balance and press the button. This gives rise to a unique logic of mutuality: "mutually assured destruction" (MAD). <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Mutually assured destruction is equilibrium-seeking. It tends toward the creation of a "balance of terror." MAD is certainty squared: to the certainty that there is objectively a threat is added the certainty that it is balanced out.</span></span> The second certainty is dynamic, and requires maintenance. The assurance must be maintained by continuing to producing the conditions that bring the cause so vividly into the present. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">You have to keep moving into the dangerous future. You have to race foward it ever faster. You have to build more weapons, faster and better, to be sure that your systems match the lethality of your opponent's</span></span>, give or take a few half-lives. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The process soon becomes self-driving. The logic of mutually assured destruction becomes its own motor. It becomes self-propelling. Now that you've started, you can't very well stop. What began as an epistemological condition (a certainty about what you and your opponent are capable of doing) dynamizes into an ontology or mode of being (a race for dear life).</span></span>

[[#_Toc269368314]][[#_Toc269290043]]<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> (9/19) </span>
Contention Three is Solvency 

**Our stance against Bagram and other secret prisons is necessary to challenge the logic of exception governing black sites where prisoners disappear and are tortured**
<span class="Author-Date">**Keenan 200**9</span> (Bernard; Interim Dean and Professor of Law at Suffolk University; “Secret prisons and sovereignty,” The Guardian, August 22; http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/ libertycentral/2009/aug/22/secret-prisons-bagram-sovereignty) 

<span style="margin: 0in 0.5in 0.0001pt;"><span class="underline">Last week, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) demanded that the Obama administration release information on 600 detainees held at Bagram airbase in Afghanistan. The request mirrors that made to the Bush administration seven years before</span>, regarding the men <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">held in Guantánamo Bay. The continued use of secret prisons to hold detainees – some not captured in the Afghan conflict, but brought to Bagram from elsewhere – seems contrary to the announcement</span></span> of 23 January 2009 <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">when</span></span> the <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Obama</span></span> administration, fresh into office, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">declared that the indefinite detention of foreign prisoners at Guantánamo Bay would end</span></span>. In April, the CIA announced that it had ceased operating its network of secret prisons. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Publicly</span></span> at least, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">it seemed that the extraordinary powers claimed for the president following 11 September 2001 had been a historical anomaly, gone with Bush and his cabal. But while </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the US has publicly declared a commitment to the rule of law and the closure of Guantánamo Bay</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">, existing "black sites" like Bagram</span></span> airbase and other secret locations around the world, particularly the Horn of Africa<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">are expected <span style="border: medium none;">to grow</span></span></span>. The work of organisations like the ACLU, Amnesty International and Reprieve to gain information on such places and provide legal help to detainees will become even more difficult. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">No detainee at Bagram has yet gained access to a US court.</span></span> Has Obama simply adopted a doctrine of the Bush administration, or does <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the ongoing existence of secret prisons and extralegal detention reveal something more about the limits of law itself? Jurists in the early 20th century, much like their Roman predecessors, were much preoccupied by the conditions under which the law could be suspended to preserve it.</span></span> Europe was a very different place to the heavily regulated, legally dense creation of the past 40 years<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">. In times of war</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, it is generally agreed that </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: 1pt solid windowtext; padding: 0in; text-decoration: none;">the executive branch of government could</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> adopt emergency powers to </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">suspend the normal legal order</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. The rationale is to deal with a crisis effectively, defeat the enemy or quickly distribute aid and supplies. </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">In such a "state of exception</span></span>", as investigated by Italian theorist Giorgio Agamben, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">normal </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">legal rules are superseded by facts of life. The distinction between legal rule and bare necessity becomes blurred.</span></span> <span class="cardChar">In a time of emergency, the Nazi jurist Carl Schmitt wrote, "sovereign is he who decides on the state of exception". No sooner had Hitler come to power than he declared personal liberties contained in the constitution of the Weimar republic to be suspended, to bring about the Third Reich. His decree was never repealed, and so the entire 12 years of his rule was, in legal terms, a state of exception during which his word was law. The definition of a sovereign, for Schmitt, is the legal power to suspend legality itself. Interest in Schmitt was understandably renewed following the declaration by the US president George W Bush in November 2001 that "enemy combatants" would be detained without access to normal courts. The ordinary laws of war would not apply to them. This decision fitted Schmitt's concept of sovereign power to the letter. But in Agamben's reading, this is not simply a particular doctrine adopted by the Nazis and the Bush administration. Rather it is inherent in the structure of sovereignty and law. For Agamben, the "state of exception" is in fact the normal situation. The power to create legal black holes is not so much an abuse of executive power; it is something built into the nature of executive power itself. We can think of examples closer to home. Northern Ireland was governed from the moment of its creation in 1922 with the aid of the Special Powers Act, a set of executive measures that later gave the authority for internment in 1971. The lineage from the Defence of the Realm Act 1914, via the Special Powers Act and the Prevention of Terrorism Acts to the contemporary raft of counter-terrorist legislation of the past decade is easy to trace. </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">At all points the executive has reserved the power to decide on enemies or threats to the normal order, people who are designated as outside the sphere of law, and therefore subject to detention, torture, or even death. </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">The secret prison is, like the concentration camp, the physical manifestation of the state of exception, a place where law cannot penetrate.</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> But those subject to such powers are not limited to the detainees of the "war on terror", against whom torture and extra-judicial imprisonment are said to be not only justified, but necessary</span></span>. The paradigm provides a different way of thinking about, for example, the unlawful detention and violent removal of immigration detainees from the UK, under the powers invested in the secretary of state<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. It</span></span> also <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">offers insight into the deployment of counter-terrorist powers by the police against civil protests in our cities</span></span> and at climate camp<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">. In contemporary sovereignty there is always a hint of dictatorship in the power<span style="border: medium none;"> to decide who is outside the law. It is against this that those who believe in the rule of law, civil liberties, human rights and equality must struggle.</span> </span></span></span>

[[#_Toc269368315]][[#_Toc269326998]][[#_Toc269290311]][[#_Toc269290182]][[#_Toc269290044]]<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> (11/19) </span>
**This exposes the dark sites where torture and other atrocities are hidden from public view—this act by itself challenges the violent logic of policymaking that relies on keeping these atrocities invisible (this card has been ableist modified)**
**<span class="Author-Date">Gorelick 2008</span>** (Nathaniel; Ph.D candidate at SUNY Buffalo; “Imaginary Renditions: Terror, Torture and the Possibility of an Excessive Ethics in Literature**,”** //Theory & Event// 11:2 | Project Muse) 

<span style="margin: 0in 0.5in 0.0001pt;">On April 28, 2004, the popular television news program "60 Minutes 2" aired a report on the United States military's abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq.2 The perverse and disturbing photographs which accompanied the story set off an explosion of international and domestic outrage and incited a collective demand that the soldiers and officials responsible for this egregious betrayal of the U.S. mission -- in Iraq in particular and in the so-called war on terror writ </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.5in 0.0001pt;">large -- be brought to justice and made to account for themselves. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">For some, photographs of American troops electrifying hooded prisoners and dragging naked men and women on dog leashes revealed a shameful aberration in an otherwise well-meaning project of democratic expansionism; for others, these images simply revealed what many suspected had been the horrible underside of this project from the beginning. The point, however, was that the</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> invisible had been rendered visible, and in so doing had demanded both acknowledgement and explanation by the various government institutions undeniably responsible for these visions of (excessive) inhumanity</span></span>. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld could not, as he had in response to concerns about civilian casualties in the American bombing of Afghanistan, dismiss the Abu Ghraib victims as "collateral damage."<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">3What had been revealed in these images was</span></span> what J.M. Coetzee has famously called "The Dark Chamber," the prison<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">, the torture room which, shielded from the public gaze, "<span style="border: medium none;">becomes </span></span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">like the bedchamber of the pornographer's fantasy, where, insulated from moral or physical restraint, one human being is free to exercise his imagination to the limits in the performance of vileness upon the body of another."4 This dark space</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> maintains for its agents an unrestrained authority </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">over its victims precisely</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> because of its darkness, </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">because it is beyond representation. The paradox, as Coetzee rightly emphasizes, is</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> that the solidification of the entire authoritarian state apparatus </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">nonetheless requires a knowledge of this dark chamber; it requires the social space over which this authority claims jurisdiction to be totally saturated with this strange representation of non-representation. In this way, "relations in the torture room provide a metaphor, bare and extreme, for relations between authoritarianism and its victims."</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">5 <span style="border: medium none;">To expose the dark chamber, to shine the harsh light of undisavowable truth into the secret ce<span style="border: medium none;">lls of Abu Ghraib, is to spark a delegitimizing outrage surrounding the violation of the very ideals that the authority in question purports to protect. </span></span></span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">All the dejecta, the waste, the "dirty work" in the war on terror is laid bare </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">in the image of an American soldier giving an enthusiastic thumbs-up to a pile of bloodied Iraqis. The countervailing metaphor of the tumbling statue of Saddam Hussein</span></span> -- representing the triumphant liberation of an innocent, repressed people -- <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">cannot hold. </span></span>It is, however, necessary to distinguish the context in which Coetzee invokes this idea from the political situation elaborated by the war on terror. His essay "Into the Dark Chamber: The Writer and the South African State" was written in 1986; Coetzee thus occupied the particular position of the participant observer, ruminating on the crisis in representation endemic to the apartheid state especially as it sat poised on the precipice of collapse. Here, as in <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the war on terror</span></span>, this crisis <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">can be understood not as a constraint against politics, nor as a hiccup in the otherwise smooth functioning of a violent totalitarian regime; rather the crisis in representation is constitutive of politics as such. Political legislation comes to be entirely preoccupied by the necessity to articulate and stabilize the limits of representation: "The response of South Africa's legislators to what disturbs their white electorate is usually to order it out of sight.... If the black townships are in flames, let cameras be banned from them.</span></span> (At which the great white electorate heaves a sigh of relief: how much more bearable the newscasts have become!)"6 <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">The constant policing of the line between the visible and the invisible becomes the essence of policy-making</span></span>. While this policing function may operate -- with varying degrees of success -- within the war on terror, a principle distinction between this context and that of apartheid South Africa is that the existence of torture chambers in South Africa was well-known; the dark chamber was "offered like the Gorgon's head to terrorize the populace and (stop) resistance."7 </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">1AC – Solvency (13/19) </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">We can’t save lives without apprehending the value of lives </span></span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Butler 09’</span></span> (Judith, Professor of comparative literature @ U. of Berkeley; Frames of War; published 2009; pg. )AB </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.5in 0.0001pt;"><span class="underline"> If we take the precariousness of life as a point of departure, then there is no life without the need for shelter and food, no life without dependency on wider networks of sociality and labor, no life that transcends injurability and mortalit</span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">y</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">.</span></span>'° We might then analyze some of the cultural tributaries of military power during these times as attempting to maximize precariousness for others while minimizing precariousness for the power in question. <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">This differential distribution of precarity is at once a material and a perceptual issue, since those whose lives are not "regarded" as potentially grievable, and hence valuable, are made to bear the burden of starvation, underemployment, legal disenfranchisement, and differential exposure to violence and death." It would be difficult, if not impossible, to decide whether the "regard"—or the failure of "regard"—leads to the "material reality" or whether the material reality leads to the failure of regard, since it would seem that both happen at once and that such perceptual categories are essential to the crafting of material reality (which does not mean that all materiality is reducible to perception, but only that perception carries its material effects). Precariousness and precarity are intersecting concepts. Lives are by definition precarious: they can be expunged at will or by accident; their persistence is in no sense guaranteed. In some sense, this is a feature of all life, and there is no thinking of life that is not precarious—except, of course, in fantasy, and in military fantasies in particular. Political orders, including economic and social institutions, are designed to address those very needs without which the risk of mortality is heightened.</span></span> Precarity designates that politically induced condition in which certain populations suffer from failing social and economic networks of support and become differentially exposed to injury, violence, and death. Such populations are at heightened risk of disease, poverty, starvation, displacement, and of exposure to violence without protection. Precarity also characterizes that politically induced condition of maximized precariousness for populations exposed to arbitrary state violence who often have no other option than to appeal to the very state from which they need protection. In other words, they appeal to the state for protection, but the state is precisely that from which they require protection. To be protected from violence by the nation-state is to be exposed to the violence wielded by the nation-state, so to rely on the nation-state for protection from violence is precisely to exchange one potential violence for another. There may, indeed, be few other choices. Of course, not all violence issues from the nation-state, but it would be rare to find contemporary instances of violence that bear no relation to that political form. This book <span class="cardChar">considers</span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> the "frames" of war—the ways of selectively carving up experience as essential to the conduct of war. Such frames do not merely reflect on the material conditions of war, but are essential to the perpetually crafted animus of that material reality </span></span></span>

**Torture must be opposed absolutely—this requires the rejection of any compromise between torture and the law**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Zizek 02</span></span>** (Slavoj; Senior Researcher at the Institute of Social Studies, Ljubljana; Welcome to the Desert of the Real!; p. 102-106) 

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">If</span></span>, then, against these misreadings, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">we resist the temptation to deprive the notion of Homo sacer of its true radicality, it allows us to analyse the numerous calls for rethinking some basic ingredients of modern notions of human dignity and freedom which abound after September 11. A good example is</span></span> Jonathan <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Alter's</span></span> Newsweek magazine <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">column 'Time to Think about Torture'</span></span>, with the ominous subtitle 'It's a new world, and survival may well require old techniques that seemed out of the question'<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. After flirting with the Israeli idea of legitimizing physical and psychological torture in cases of extreme urgency</span></span> (when we know that a terrorist prisoner possesses information which may save hundreds of lives), <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">and 'neutral' statements like 'Some torture clearly works', Alter concludes: </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">We can't legalize torture; it's contrary to American values. </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">But even as we continue to speak out </span></span>against human-rights abuses around the world, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">we need to keep an open mind about cer-tain measures to fight terrorism, like court-sanctioned psychological interrogation</span></span>. And we'll have to think about transferring some suspects to our less squeamish allies, even if that's hypocritical. Nobody said this was going to be pretty.47<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">The obscenity of such statements is blatant. First, </span></span>why use the WTC attacks as justification? Are there not much more horrible crimes going on around the world all the time? Secondly, what is new about this idea? Did the CIA not teach the Latin American and Third World American military allies the practice of torture for decades? Hypocrisy has gone on for decades. . <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Even</span></span> Alan <span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">Dershowitz's </span></span><span class="cardChar">much-quoted 'liberal' argument is suspicious: 'I'm not in favour of torture, but if you're going to have it, it should damn well have court approval</span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">.' </span></span><span class="cardChar">The</span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> underlying logic — 'Since we are doing it in any case, better to legalize it, and thus prevent excesses!' — is extremely dangerous: it gives legitimacy to torture, and thus opens up the space for more illicit tor<span style="border: medium none;">ture</span></span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. When,</span></span> along the same lines, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Dershowitz argues that torture in the 'ticking clock' situation is not against the prisoner's rights as an accused person</span></span> (the information obtained will not be used in a trial against him, and the torture is done not as punishment, only in order to prevent the mass killing to come), <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the underlying premise is even more disturbing: so one should be allowed to torture people not as part of a deserved punishment, but simply because they know something? Why, then, not also legalize the torture of prisoners of war who may possess information which may save hundreds of our soldiers' lives? Against liberal</span></span> Dershowitz's <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">honesty, we should therefore paradoxically stick to the apparent `hypocrisy': OK, we can well imagine that in a specific situation, confronted with the proverbial 'prisoner who knows'</span></span> and whose words can save thousands, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">we would resort to torture</span></span> — even (or, rather, precisely) in such a case, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">however, it is absolutely crucial that we do not elevate this desperate choice into a universal principle</span></span>; following the unavoidable brutal urgency of the moment, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">we should simply do it. Only in this way, in the very inability or prohibition to elevate what we had to do into a universal principle, do we retain the sense of guilt, the awareness of the inadmissibility of what we have done.</span></span>In short, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">such debates, such exhortations to 'keep an open mind', should be the sign for every authentic liberal that the terrorists are winning. A</span></span>nd, in a way<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, essays like Alter's, which do not advocate torture outright, simply introduce it as a legitimate topic of debate, are even more dangerous than an explicit endorsement of torture: while — for the moment, at least — an explicit endorsement would be too shocking and therefore rejected, the mere introduction of torture as a legitimate topic allows us to entertain the idea while retaining a pure conscience</span></span> <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">(Of course I'm against torture — whom does it hurt if we simply discuss it!'). Such legitimization of torture as a topic of debate changes the background of ideological presuppositions and options much more radically than its outright advocacy: it changes the entire field while, without this change, outright advocacy remains an idiosyncratic view. The problem here is that of fundamental ethical presuppositions: of course you can legitimize torture in terms of short-term gain (saving hundreds of lives) — </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">but what about the long-term consequences for our symbolic universe? Where do we stop</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">? </span></span><span class="cardChar">Why not torture hardened criminals, a parent who kidnaps his child from a divorced spouse . . .?</span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> The idea that, once we let the genie out of the bottle, torture can be kept at a 'reasonable' level is the worst liberal illusion</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> — if for no other reason than that the 'ticking clock' example is deceptive: for the most part</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">, torture is not done in order to resolve a `ticking-clock' situation, but for completely different reasons (to </span></span>
<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">punish or break down the enemy psychologically, to terrorize the population to be subdued</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">, and so on). </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;">Any consistent ethical stance must c<span style="border: medium none;">ompletely reject such pragmatic-utilitarian reasoning</span></span></span>. Moreover, I am again tempted to conduct a simple mental experiment<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">: let us imagine an Arab newspaper making the case for the torture of American prisoners — and the explosion of comments about fundamentalist barbarism and disrespect for human rights this would provoke!</span></span> Of course, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">we should be fully aware of how our very sensitivity to torture</span></span> — that is, the idea that torture is against the dignity of a human being as such <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">— grew out of the ideology of modern capitalism itself</span></span>: in short, the critique of capitalism is a result of capitalism's own ideological dynamics, not of our measuring it according to some external <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">standard. Far from being a single event, the topic of torture has persisted</span></span> in 2002: <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">at the beginning of April, </span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">when</span></span> <span class="cardChar">the Americans got hold of Abu Zubaydah, presumed to be the al-Qaeda second-in-command, the question 'Should he be tortured?' was openly discussed in the mass media. In a statement broadcast by NBC on 5 April, Donald Rumsfeld himself claimed that his priority is American lives, not the human rights of a high-ranking terrorist, and attacked journalists for displaying such concern for Zubaydah's well-being, thus openly clearing the way for torture; the saddest spectacle, however, was that of Alan Dershowitz who, in the guise of a liberal response to Rumsfeld, while accepting torture as a legitimate topic for discussion, in fact argued like the legalist opponents of the annihilation of the Jews at the Wannsee Conference. His reservations were based on two particular points: (1) the case of Zubaydah is not a clear case of the 'ticking-clock' situation — that is, it is not proven that he actually knows the details of a particular imminent mass terrorist attack which could be prevented by gaining access to his knowledge through torture; (2) torturing him would not yet be legal — in order to do such a thing, one should first engage in a public debate and then amend the US Constitution and publicly proclaim in what areas the USA will no longer abide by the Geneva Convention, which regulates the treatment of enemy prisoners . . . If ever there were an ultimate ethical fiasco of liberalism, this was it. This reference to Wannsee is by no means a rhetorical exaggeration. If we are to believe the HBO docudrama about the Wannsee Conference, an old conservative lawyer there, shattered by the implications of the proposed measures (millions of Jews illegally liquidated), protested: 'But I visited the Fiihrer a week ago, and he assured me solemnly that no Jew will suffer from illegal violent measures!' Reinhard Heydrich, who presided over the meeting, looked him in the eyes and, with a mocking smile, replied: 'And I am sure that if you ask him the same question again, he will give you the same reassurance!' The shattered judge got the point: tha</span>t <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">Nazi discourse operated on two levels; that the level of explicit statements was supplemented by an obscene unacknowledged underside. If we can rely on the surviving proceedings, then, throughout the conference, that was the central bone of contention between the hardline executives and 'legalists' like the judge who drafted the Nuremberg racial laws: while he passionately emphasized how much he hated the Jews, he nevertheless insisted that there were no proper legal grounds for the radical measures they were debating The problem for the 'legalists' was thus not the nature of the measures, even less anti-Semitism as such, but their worry that such measures were not properly allowed in law —</span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="border: medium none; text-decoration: none;"> t</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">hey were frightened to confront the abyss of a decision that was not covered by the big Other of the Law, by the legal fiction of legitimacy. Today, with the post-political regulation of the life of Homo sacer, , this last reservation of the Nazi legalists has faded away: there is no longer any need to cover administrative measures with the legal big Other.</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">Framework (14/19) </span>
Contention Four is framework 
**<span style="color: black;"> Err to the side of probable impacts – predictions epically fail</span>**
<span style="color: black;"> **Menand 2005** (Louis ,phd Colombia and Robert M. and Anne T. Bass Professor of English and American Literature and Language at </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_University|Harvard University]]</span><span style="color: black;">., The New Yorker, 12-05-2005, </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://www.newyorker.com/critics/content/articles/051205crbo_books1]]</span><span style="color: black;"> ) </span>
Prediction is one of the pleasures of life. Conversation would wither without it. “It won’t last. She’ll dump him in a month.” If you’re wrong, no one will call you on it, because being right or wrong isn’t really the point. The point is that you think he’s not worthy of her, and the prediction is just a way of enhancing your judgment with a pleasant prevision of doom. Unless you’re putting money on it, nothing is at stake except your reputation for wisdom in matters of the heart. If a month goes by and they’re still together, the deadline can be extended without penalty. “She’ll leave him, trust me. It’s only a matter of time.” They get married: “Funny things happen. You never know.” You still weren’t wrong. Either the marriage is a bad one—you erred in the right direction—or you got beaten by a low-probability outcome. It is the somewhat gratifying lesson of Philip Tetlock’s new book, “Expert Political Judgment: How Good Is It? How Can We Know?” (Princeton; $35), that <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">people who make prediction their business</span></span>—people who appear as experts on television, get quoted in newspaper articles, advise governments and businesses, and participate in punditry roundtables—<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">are no better than the rest of us</span></span>. When they’re wrong, they’re rarely held accountable, and they rarely admit it, either. They insist that they were just off on timing, or blindsided by an improbable event, or almost right, or wrong for the right reasons. They have the same repertoire of self-justifications that everyone has, and are no more inclined than anyone else to revise their beliefs about the way the world works, or ought to work, just because they made a mistake. No one is paying you for your gratuitous opinions about other people, but the experts are being paid, and Tetlock claims that the better known and more frequently quoted they are, the less reliable their guesses about the future are likely to be. The accuracy of an expert’s predictions actually has an inverse relationship to his or her self-confidence, renown, and, beyond a certain point, depth of knowledge. People who follow current events by reading the papers and newsmagazines regularly can guess what is likely to happen about as accurately as the specialists whom the papers quote. Our system of expertise is completely inside out: it rewards bad judgments over good ones. “Expert Political Judgment” is not a work of media criticism. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Tetlock</span></span> is a psychologist—he teaches at Berkeley—<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">and his conclusions are based on a long-term stud</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">y</span></span> that he began twenty years ago. He picked two hundred and eighty-four people who made their living “commenting or offering advice on political and economic trends,” and he started asking them to assess the probability that various things would or would not come to pass, both in the areas of the world in which they specialized and in areas about which they were not expert. Would there be a nonviolent end to apartheid in South Africa? Would Gorbachev be ousted in a coup? Would the United States go to war in the Persian Gulf? Would Canada disintegrate? (Many experts believed that it would, on the ground that Quebec would succeed in seceding.) And so on. By the end of the study, in 2003, the experts had made 82,361 forecasts. Tetlock also asked questions designed to determine how they reached their judgments, how they reacted when their predictions proved to be wrong, how they evaluated new information that did not support their views, and how they assessed the probability that rival theories and predictions were accurate.Tetlock got a statistical handle on his task by putting most of the[[#0.1__Toc194845788]] forecasting questions into a “three possible futures” form. The respondents were asked to rate the probability of three alternative outcomes: the persistence of the status quo, more of something (political freedom, economic growth), or less of something (repression, recession). And he measured his experts on two dimensions: how good they were at guessing probabilities (did all the things they said had an //x// per cent chance of happening happen //x// per cent of the time?), and<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> how accurate they were at predicting specific outcomes</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">. The results were unimpressive</span></span>. On the first scale, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">the experts performed worse than they would have if they had simply assigned an equal probability to all </span></span><span style="color: black;">three outcomes—if they had given each possible future a thirty-three-per-cent chance of occurring. </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Human beings who spend their lives </span></span>
‘ 

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">1AC – Framework (15/19) </span>
<span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">studying the state of the world, in other words, are poorer forecasters than dart-throwing monkeys, who would have distributed their picks evenly over the three choices</span></span><span style="color: black;">. Tetlock also found that </span><span class="underline">specialists are not significantly more reliable than non-specialists in guessing what is going to happen in the region they study. There are also many studies showing that expertise and experience do not make someone a better reader of the evidence</span><span style="color: black;">. In one, data from a test used to diagnose brain damage were given to a group of clinical psychologists and their secretaries. The psychologists’ diagnoses were no better than the secretaries’. The expert-prediction game is not much different. When television pundits make predictions, the more ingenious their forecasts the greater their cachet. An arresting new prediction means that the expert has discovered a set of interlocking causes that no one else has spotted, and that could lead to an outcome that the conventional wisdom is ignoring. The expert also suffers from knowing too much: the more facts an expert has, the more information is available to be enlisted in support of his or her pet theories, and the more chains of causation he or she can find beguiling. This helps explain why specialists fail to outguess non-specialists. The odds tend to be with the obvious. Tetlock’s experts were also no different from the rest of us when it came to learning from their mistakes. Most people tend to dismiss new information that doesn’t fit with what they already believe. Tetlock found that his experts used a double standard: they were much tougher in assessing the validity of information that undercut their theory than they were in crediting information that supported it. If you look backward, the dots that lead up to Hitler or the fall of the Soviet Union or the attacks on September 11th all connect. If you look forward, it’s just a random scatter of dots, many potential chains of causation leading to many possible outcomes. We have no idea today how tomorrow’s invasion of a foreign land is going to go; after the invasion, we can actually persuade ourselves that we knew all along. The result seems inevitable, and therefore predictable. Tetlock found that, consistent with this asymmetry, experts routinely misremembered the degree of probability they had assigned to an event after it came to pass. They claimed to have predicted what happened with a higher degree of certainty than, according to the record, they really did. When this was pointed out to them, by Tetlock’s researchers, they sometimes became defensive. And, like most of us, experts violate a fundamental rule of probabilities by tending to find scenarios with more variables more likely. If a prediction needs two independent things to happen in order for it to be true, its probability is the product of the probability of each[[#0.1__Toc194845789]] of the things it depends on. If there is a one-in-three chance of //x// and a one-in-four chance of //y//, the probability of both //x// and //y// occurring is one in twelve. But we often feel instinctively that if the two events “fit together” in some scenario the chance of both is greater, not less. Tetlock also has an unscientific point to make, which is that “we as a society would be better off if participants in policy debates stated their beliefs in testable forms”—that is, as probabilities—“monitored their forecasting performance, and honored their reputational bets.” He thinks that we’re suffering from our primitive attraction to deterministic, overconfident hedgehogs. It’s true that the only thing the electronic media like better than a hedgehog is two hedgehogs who don’t agree. Tetlock notes, sadly, a point that Richard Posner has made about these kinds of public intellectuals, which is that most of them are dealing in “solidarity” goods, not “credence” goods. </span><span class="cardChar">Their analyses and predictions are tailored to make their ideological brethren feel good—more white swans for the white-swan camp. A prediction, in this context, is just an exclamation point added to an analysis. Liberals want to hear that whatever conservatives are up to is bound to go badly; when the argument gets more nuanced, they change the channel</span><span style="color: black;">. On radio and television and the editorial page, the line between expertise and advocacy is very blurry, and pundits behave exactly the way Tetlock says they will. Bush Administration loyalists say that their predictions about postwar Iraq were correct, just a little off on timing; pro-invasion liberals who are now trying to dissociate themselves from an adventure gone bad insist that though they may have sounded a false alarm, they erred “in the right direction”—not really a mistake at all. The same blurring characterizes professional forecasters as well. The predictions on cable news commentary shows do not have life-and-death side effects, but the predictions of people in the C.I.A. and the Pentagon plainly do. It’s possible that the psychologists have something to teach those people, and, no doubt, psychologists are consulted. Still, the suggestion that we can improve expert judgment by applying the lessons of cognitive science and probability theory belongs to the abiding modern American faith in expertise. As a professional, Tetlock is, after all, an expert, and he would like to believe in expertise. So he is distressed that </span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">political forecasters turn out to be as unreliable as the psychological literature predicted</span></span><span style="color: black;">, but heartened to think that there might be a way of raising the standard.</span>

And, default to our systemic impacts 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Rescher 83</span></span>, prof. of philosophy at Pitt U, 1983 (Nicholas, “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management”, p. 50) 
<span class="underline">The "worst possible case fixation" is one of the most damaging modes of unrealism</span> in deliberations about risk in real-life situations. Preoccupation about what might happen<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> "if worst comes to worst" is counterproductive whenever we proceed without recognizing th</span></span>at, often as not, <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">these worst possible outcomes are wildly improbable</span></span> (and sometimes do not deserve to be viewed as real possibilities at all). The worst threat is certainly something to be borne in mind and taken into account, but it is emphatically not a satisfactory index of the overall seriousness or gravity of a situation of hazard. 

<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">1AC – Framework (16/19) </span>

T**he affirmative’s critique of state violence is a prerequisite—without challenging the frames of state violence, uniting diverse struggles is impossible**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Butler 09</span></span>,** Professor of Rhetoric at U.C.-Berkeley 2009 [Judith, “Frames of War”, Published 2009, pg. Pg. 133-135, [CL]] </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.5in 0.0001pt;">But I am not at all sure we need to gather those struggles within a unified framework. As I hope I have shown, at least in preliminary form, to insist on a unified cultural framework as a precondition of politics, whether secular or religious, would be to preclude such a framework from political contestation. If, as Marx insists, the point of departure for our analysis must be the historical present, then it seems to me that a new way of understanding how temporalities conflict and converge will be necessary for any complex description of that present. This means, I think, resisting both unified frameworks that would distill the antagonisms in question into equivalent rights claims, but also refusing those developmental narratives that would determine in advance what a just view of human flourishing consists in. It is always possible to show not only the various ways in which Islam is modern but also, just as importantly, how certain secular ideals could not have been developed without their transmission and elaboration through Islamic practices. The point, however, is not to show that we are all modern. If modernity seeks to constitute itself through a continuous and unfolding idea of time, and if some of our personal liberties are conceptualized within that notion of a continuous and unfolding realization, then perhaps we would do well to remember Nietzsche's quip from The Will to Power: "Mankind does not advance, it does not even exist."21 </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0.5in 0.0001pt;">More salient, perhaps, is Walter Benjamin's insistence, in the thirteenth of his Theses on the Philosophy of History, "that the concept of the historical progress of mankind cannot be sundered from the concept of its progression through a homogeneous, empty time. A critique of the concept of such a progression must be the basis of any criticism of the concept of progress itself."22 He notes in a subsequent thesis that "the awareness that they are about to make the continuum of history explode is characteristic of the revolutionary classes at the moment of their action."23 The historian who understands how the past flashes up, how the past is not past, but continues in the present, is one who understands "the time of the now" as "shot through with chips of Messianic time."24 Benjamin's emphatically non-secular reference here does not rely on an ideal future to come, but rather on the interruptive force of the past on a present that effaces all qualitative differences through its homogenizing effect. The "constellation" which is one's own era is precisely the difficult and interruptive scene of multiple temporalities that cannot be reduced to cultural pluralism or a liberal discourse of rights. For Benjamin, in the final line of those theses, "every second of time was the strait gate through which the Messiah might enter," an historical condition under which political responsibility for the present exists precisely "now." It is not by accident that Benjamin understood the revolutionary action as the strike, as the rejection of coercive state power. That power relies on a certain taken-for-granted notion of historical progress to legitimate itself as the ultimately modern achievement. To separate the "now time" from these claims of modernity is to undercut the temporal framework that uncritically supports state power, its legitimating effect, and its coercive instrumentalities. Without a critique of state violence and the power it wields to construct the subject of cultural difference, our claims to freedom risk an appropriation by the state that can make us lose sight of all our other commitments. Only through such a critique of state violence do we stand a chance of finding and acknowledging already existing alliances and sites of contact with other minorities in order to consider systemically how coercion seeks to divide us and to keep attention deflected from the critique of violence itself. It is only by coming to terms with the epistemic shifts among critical perspectives, both secular and religious, that any of us will be able to take stock of the time and place of politics. If freedom is one of the ideals we hope for, it will be important to remember how easily the rhetoric of freedom can be deployed in the name of the self-legitimation of a state whose coercive force gives the lie to its claim to safeguard humanity. Maybe then we can rethink freedom, even freedom from coercion, as a condition of solidarity among minorities, and appreciate how necessary it is to formulate sexual politics in the context of a pervasive critique of war. </span>



**<span style="color: black;">Calculative decision-making makes people expendable and leads to every atrocity known to man. </span>**
<span style="color: black;">**Dillon ‘9**9 (Michael, Professor of IR @ Lancaster, “Another Justice” Political Theory, Vol. 27, No. 2. April, pp. 165) PS </span>

Otherness is born(e) within the self as an integral part of itself and in such a way that it always remains an inherent stranger to itself.33 It derives from the lack, absence, or ineradicable incompleteness which comes from having no security of tenure within or over that of which the self is a particular herme- neutical manifestation; namely, being itself. The point about the human, betrayed by this absence, is precisely that it is not sovereignly self-possessed and complete, enjoying undisputed tenure in and of itself. Modes of justice therefore reliant upon such a subject lack the very foundations in the self that they most violently insist upon seeing inscribed there. This does not, how- ever, mean that the dissolution of the subject also entails the dissolution of Justice. Quite the reverse. The subject was never a firm foundation for justice, much less a hospitable vehicle for the reception of the call of another Justice. It was never in possession of that self-possession which was supposed to secure the certainty of itself, of a self-possession that would enable it ulti- mately to adjudicate everything. The very indexicality required of sovereign subjectivity gave rise rather to a commensurability much more amenable to the expendability required of the political and material economies of mass societies than it did to the singular, invaluable, and uncanny uniqueness of the self. The value of the subject became the standard unit of currency for the political arithmetic of States and the political economies of capitalism.34 They trade in it still to devastating global effect. The technologisation of the political has become manifest and global. Economies of evaluation necessarily require calculability.35 Thus no valuation without mensuration and no mensuration without indexation. Once rendered calculable, however, units of account are necessarily submissible not only to valuation but also, of course, to devaluation. Devaluation, logi- cally, can extend to the point of counting as nothing. Hence, no mensuration without demensuration either. There is nothing abstract about this: the declension of economies of value leads to the zero point of holocaust. How- ever liberating and emancipating systems of value-rights-may claim to be, for example, they run the risk of counting out the invaluable. Counted out, the invaluable may then lose its purchase on life. Herewith, then, the neces- sity of championing the invaluable itself. For we must never forget that, "we are dealing always with whatever exceeds measure."36 But how does that necessity present itself? Another Justice answers: as the surplus of the duty to answer to the claim of Justice over rights. That duty, as with the advent of another Justice, is integral to the lack constitutive of the human way of being. The event of this lack is not a negative experience. Rather, it is an encoun- ter with a reserve charged with possibility. As possibility, it is that which enables life to be lived in excess without the overdose of actuality.37 

[[#Affirmative-Torture_1AC-_Pflugerville]]
==**<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Torture 1AC- Memorial</span>**== 
Email [[mailto:barron.andrew1@gmail.com|barron.andrew1@gmail.com]] for cites or questions.

<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">**__Contention One is Inherency__**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **As Guantanamo is being closed, new dark sites such as the secret prisons at Bagram Airbase in Afghanistan are being created outside all regimes of legality**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Gebauer et al. 2009, (Matthias, John, Britta; journalist at Der Spiefel; “Prisoner Abuse Continues at Bagram Prison in Afghanistan,” 9/21, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.spiegel.de/international/world/0,1518,650242,00.html]]</span>)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Bagram is "the forgotten ………years, without knowing why. </span>

Plan: The United States federal government should close all detention centers that torture prisoners in Afghanistan and remove their assigned personnel from the country. 

**Contention Two is Torture:**
**Torture in the name of national security is an ethical fallacy—it turns people into pawns, robs the tortured of dignity and dehumanizes them.**
Evans, 2010 (Rebecca Evans, Assitant Professor of Politics and International Relations at Ursinus College, “The Ethics of Torture”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.du.edu/korbel/hrhw/volumes/2007/evans-2007.pdf]]</span>, accessed 8/8/10)PS
Torture has once again ……….Dershowitz 2004: 259, 266-267)<span style="color: red;">.</span>

**The outweighs**
**Berube 97** (Professor of Communication at South Carolina) **1997** (David, Ph.D. in Communications, “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side”, NanoTechnology Magazine, June/July 19**97**, p. 1-6, URL: <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cla.sc.edu/ENGL/faculty/berube/prolong.htm]]</span>)
This means-ends dispute is at ……….e**__vil's most powerful weapon.__**

**__Contention Three is Ethics__**
**Torture must be opposed absolutely—ethics requires the rejection of any compromise between torture and the law**
Zizek 02 (Slavoj; Senior Researcher at the Institute of Social Studies, Ljubljana; Welcome to the Desert of the Real!; p. 102-106)
If, then, against these misreadings, ........ measures with the legal big Other.

**__Contention Four is Necropolitical Securitization__**
**Torture is the crucial internal link between the slide from a benign biopolitics of life to necropolitical extermination of dangerous populations—torture is where biopolitics draws the line between who must be made to live and who can be left to die**
Morton 2008, (Stephen; Senior Lecturer in Anglophone Literatures, University of Southampton; “Torture, Terrorism snd Colonial Sovereignty,” //Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society//, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 192-194)
It is precisely this …… biopolitical and necropolitical control. 

**Ultimately, this slide into the dark side of biopolitics makes possible the worst forms of global violence—total warfare, genocide, and nuclear annihilation**
Marks 08 , Associate Professor in French, University of Nottingham, __2008__ [John, “Michel Foucault: Biopolitics and Biology,” //Foucault in an age of terror: Essays on biopolitics and the Defence of Society//, Eds. Stephen Morton and Stephen Bygrave, p. 97-98]
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Although biopower in this </span>…….. bring about the ‘suicide’ of the entire German population__.12 
__Contention Five is Solvency__

**Our stance against Bagram and other secret prisons is necessary to challenge the logic of exception governing black sites where prisoners disappear and are tortured**
Keenan 2009 (Bernard; Interim Dean and Professor of Law at Suffolk University; “Secret prisons and sovereignty,” The Guardian, August 22; <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/]]</span> libertycentral/2009/aug/22/secret-prisons-bagram-sovereignty)
Last week, the American ……and equality must struggle. 

**This exposes the dark sites where torture and other atrocities are hidden from public view—this act by itself challenges the violent logic of policymaking that relies on keeping these atrocities invisible**
Gorelick 2008 (Nathaniel; Ph.D candidate at SUNY Buffalo; “Imaginary Renditions: Terror, Torture and the Possibility of an Excessive Ethics in Literature,” //Theory & Event// 11:2 | Project Muse)
On April 28…… separating a benevolent "us" from a malevolent "them". 

**We can’t save lives without apprehending the value of lives**
Butler 09’ (Judith, Professor of comparative literature @ U. of Berkeley; Frames of War; published 2009; pg. )AB
If we take the …..crafted animus of that material reality

**__Contention Six is No Disads__**
calculation is destroys all ethics and leads to the zero-point of the holocaust
Dillon 99 (Michael, Professor of IR @ Lancaster, "Another Justice" //Political Theory//, Vol. 27, No. 2. April, pp. 165)
Economies of ……e are dealing always with whatever exceeds measure."

**<span style="color: black;">And, err of the side of probable impacts – predictions epically fail </span>**
**__<span style="color: black;">Menand 2005 (</span>__**<span style="color: black;">Louis ,phd Colombia and Robert M. and Anne T. Bass Professor of English and American Literature and Language at </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harvard_University|Harvard University]]</span><span style="color: black;">., The New Yorker, 12-05-2005, </span><span style="color: blue;">[[@http://www.newyorker.com/critics/content/articles/051205crbo_books1]]</span><span style="color: black;"> )</span>
Prediction is one of the pleasures of life…..__<span style="color: black;"> but heartened to think that there might be a way of raising the standard.</span>__

**And, default to our systemic impacts**
Rescher 83, prof. of philosophy at Pitt U, 19__83__ (Nicholas, “Risk: A Philosophical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management”, p. 50)
The "worst possible case ,…….or gravity of a situation of hazard.

**The affirmative’s critique of state violence is a prerequisite—without challenging the frames of state violence, uniting diverse struggles is impossible**
Butler 09, Professor of Rhetoric at U.C.-Berkeley __2009__ [Judith, “Frames of War”, Published 2009, pg. Pg. 133-135]
But **__I am not at all .....__** of a pervasive critique of war.

**Their construction of threats causes extinction**
Massumi 07 (Brian, Communication Department of the Université de Montréal , “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption”) 
It is certain that there will be adjustments. But it should be remembered that Bush referred to a change in "tactics," not a change in "strategy." Preemption remains …… dynamizes into an ontology or mode of being (a race for dear life).

**Their disads impose a necropolitical order to the population to condone torture—this allows for the state to justify endless warfare**
__Kahn__, Professor of Law and the Humanities at Yale Law School and Director of the Orville H. Schell, Jr. Center for International Human Rights, __2008__ [Paul W., Sacred Violence: Torture, terror and sovereignty, pp. 132-135
__Regularly, the state places its …..__ occurs within the domain of law, we

==Cap Perm Card== 
After an incessant amount of requests I am just going to put this here:

# **Only perm solves; by rejecting utilitarian or capitalist reasons for torturing, we sever the abusive hands of capitalism, challenge it from multiple places and allow for broader change.**
<span style="margin-left: .25in;">**Linebaugh 04** (Peter Linebaugh, November 27 / 28, 2004teaches history at the University of Toledo, “Torture and Neo-Liberalism with Sycorax in Iraq”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.counterpunch.org/linebaugh11272004.html]]</span>, accessed 9.10.2010)PS </span>

<span style="margin-left: .25in;"><span class="Underline">**What we learn is the systematic, protracted, and global practice of torture.......**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">e politically potent potions for Sycorax and Iraq.</span></span>

== == 


=Negative= 
==Note:== 
I am too lazy to update this. if you want cites to SPECIFIC arguments (requests that are along the lines of: can i have all the cites you read at st. marks? will not be responded to). 

Stuff we go for: 
security k 
consult nato 
china detterence
politics (start; ethanol; tax cuts) 
iran detterence

==Specific Rounds== 
I can't remember stuff past this tournament....
===Round Rock=== 
Round 2- ??- PMCs
1NC- T- PMC not Military, T- Combat troops, START, XO, Consult NATO
2NC- T- Combat Troops, XO, Consult
1NR- START
2NR- T-Combat

Round 3- WW LW- TNW- Terror, Iran, Russia
1NC- T- Detterence, Security Guarantee CP and Russia Adv CP merged into one, Consult NATO, START, Israel, Case on Terror and Russia
2NC- Case and Israel 
1NR- CP and START
2NR- Israel and Case

Quarters- ???- Burn Pits (lolz) 
1NC-T- Must be Troops, T- OSPEC(lolz), Security, NATO, START
2NC- Security
1NR- Both Ts
2NR- Security

===<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #000000; font-size: 1.4em; margin: 5px 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**University of Texas**</span>=== 

Round 2- Round Rock: Japan Sonars- Biodiversity
1NC- T- Troops, START, Congress CP, ChinaCon Case on Biodiversity
2NC- T Troops, CP, ChinaCon, Case Defense
1NR- START, Case Turns
2NR- START, Case

Round 3- St. Marks SG; SoKo- China and Korean War
1NC- T- Nearly All, T- Detterence, START, XO, Security, Case: NK and China Impact D, Ice Age
2NC-T- Nearly All, XO, Security and Case
1NR- START and Ice Age Turns
2NR- Security

Round 6- Benton; TNW- Terror and Russia Relations
1NC- T- Detterence, XO, START, Security, Israel DA, Case: Terror and Russia
2NC- XO, Security, Case: Terror and Russia
1NR- START
2NR- Security

==Topicality== 

===ASPEC=== 

ASPEC 1NC Short 
Interpretation: The affirmative should specify the branch of government that implement their plan

B. Violation: They don’t 

C. Vote Negative— 

1.Kills ground. They can say not us on ptx and cp flows 
2. Crushes solvency debates—no in-depth solvency debates about the who, 
3. Lack of specification is severance—allows them to say not us
4. Vote neg on presumption—the usfg isn’t an actor 
Brovero in ‘94
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Adrienne, Immigration Policies Expert; wake forest, http:www.wfu.edu/Student-organizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm) </span>
The problem is not that there is not a plan; this time there is one. <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">The problem is that there is no agent specified. The federal government does not enact policies, agents or agencies within the federal government enact policies</span></span>. The agent enacting a policy is a very important aspect of the policy. For some of the same reasons the affirmative team should specify a plan of action, the affirmative team should specify an agent of action.
<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">In the "real world," when Congress votes on a bill, the bill would not be so simplistic as to say, "The federal government will repatriate all Haitians." The bill would discuss what part of the federal government should be responsible for enacting the policy</span></span>. Frequently, prior to voting on a bill, Congress debates under which actor's jurisdiction the actions of the bill fall, and which actors would implement the policy with maximum advantage. Specifying an agent would incorporate this element of real world policymaking into policy debate, which is so often accused of not reflecting the "real world."
===**T- Should=NAO**=== 

**Should is Now**
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Summers 94</span></span> (Supreme Court Justice @ Oklahoma Supreme Court, "Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant," 11/8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker2fn14)**

===**T- TNW**=== 

**A. Interpretation - Its implies ownership**

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Glossary of English Grammar Terms</span></span><span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, </span></span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005</span></span> (http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

Mine, yours, his, hers, <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">its</span></span>, ours, theirs <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">a......</span></span>Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)


B. Violation – 

Nuclear weapons in Turkey __belong__ to NATO.
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meier</span></span>, 4-28-<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1998</span></span> (Oliver, Berlin Information-center for Transatlantic Security statement coordinator, "NATO Nuclear Weapons Transfers," [[http://www.bits.de/public/articles/om280498.htm]])</span>

Mr. Chairman, we would like to draw attention to a cas.....<span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> does not possess nuclear weapons." </span></span>








===T- In- Throughout=== 

‘In’ means throughout 
<span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Words and Phrases, 1959</span></span>, p. 546 
In the Act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">jurisdiction “in” their respective</span></span> counties to hear and determine all complaints, <span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">the word “in” should be construed to mean “throughou</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">t</span></span>” such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.



===T- Combat=== 

**A. Interpretation - Presence requires regular, non-combat activities – forces engaged in combat or one-time noncombat missions aren’t part of U.S. presence**
**Thomason, 2** – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf

<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? </span>
Our working definition of US overseas military presence.......__<span style="background-color: yellow;">evolving security operation or contingency should call for them</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Times,serif;">.</span>

===T- Troops=== 

A) Interpretation - Presence means troops 
**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Harmon 3</span>**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> – </span>US Army Major (William, “The Korean Question: Is There a Future for Forward-Based American Forces in a Unified Korea?,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA415880&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) (**All bolding is in the original)**

__In American__ securit....<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> by the engagement __and visibility of the forces__.</span>

And, Substantial means they must remove 50% of troops from the region
**Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act, 92** (1992 H.R. 4421 ; 102 H.R. 4421, text of the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act of 1992, introduced by Olympia Snowe, lexis) 
TITLE I-ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT MILITARY INSTA.......__ave been reassigned__ and moved to another installation.


==<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">CPs</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">Consult NATO</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">[[#_Toc271275027]][[#_Toc271059292]][[#_Toc271058856]][[#_Toc271055779]][[#_Toc271055683]][[#_Toc271055565]][[#_Toc269845959]][[#_Toc269245138]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">CP TEXT: The United States federal government should engage in prior and binding consultation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization regarding whether <span style="font-weight: normal;">(insert their asinine advocation) </span> </span>


They say yes-- pressure
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feith 03</span></span> (Douglas J; Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Statement on the Future of NATO; before the Committee on Armed Services United States Senate March 27, 2003; http://armed-services.senate.gov/statemnt/2003/March/Feith.pdf)AB</span>

I wish to make two points …within Europe than across the Atlantic. I wish to make two points to launch our discussion here of this issue. First, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">t<span style="background-color: yellow;">he consensus rule has proven valuable in certain important ways. It has been a means to force nations to make decisions. And it has tended to create pressure for unified positions, rather than encourage divisiveness and obstructionism</span></span></span>__.__ Second, the absence of consensus does not (and should not) stop NATO members from acting militarily outside of NATO as their own interests may require. When NATO members so act, they can benefit from the Alliance by cooperating with allies whose military capabilities are available or usable because of the interoperability, combined training, combined doctrine and the like attributable to Alliance activities. The Role of France: Now, as to the recent problem of France’s regrettable conduct within NATO. French efforts to block steps to enhance Turkey’s security against possible chemical, biological or other attacks by Saddam Hussein reflected a deliberate decision to block initiatives important to the Alliance. It raised questions not only about NATO’s decision-making, but its ability to make good on its obligations to member states. <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fortunately, the majority of current Allies value NATO for the links it provides between Europe and North America. <span style="background-color: yellow;">NATO enlargement and EU enlargement promise to reinforce in those institutions the ranks of those seeking close partnership with the United States.</span> On issues of transatlantic concern, divisions appear more frequently within Europe than across the Atlantic</span></span>








[[#_Toc271275028]][[#_Toc271059293]][[#_Toc271058857]][[#_Toc271055780]][[#_Toc271055684]][[#_Toc271055566]]
Failure to consult NATO on the our global security strategy collapses the alliance and political instability. 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gordon 04</span></span> (<span class="cardChar">Philip; the U.S. Senate confirmed Philip Gordon as assistant secretary of state for Europe and Eurasian affairs. He was a senior fellow at Brookings from 1999 to 2009. http://www.brookings.edu/views/articles/gordon/20040701.pdf)AB</span> </span>

DEAR FRIENDS. How did it come to this? <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">I cannot remember a time when the gulf between Europeans and Americans was so wide. For the past couple of years, I have argued that the Iraq crisis was a sort of “perfect storm” unlikely to be repeated, and that many of the recent tensions resulted from the personalities and shortcomings of key actors on both sides. The transatlantic alliance has overcome many crises before, and given our common interests and values and the enormous challenges we face, I have been confident that we could also overcome this latest spat. Now I just don’t know any more</span></span>. After a series of increasingly depressing trips to Europe, even my optimism is being tested. I do know this: <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">if we don’t find a new way to deal with each other soon, the damage to the most successful alliance in history could become permanent<span style="background-color: yellow;">.</span> We could be in the process of creating a new world order in which the very concept of the “west” will no longer exist. I am not saying that Europe and America will end up in a military stand-off like that between east and west during the cold war. But <span style="background-color: yellow;">if current trends are not reversed, you can be sure we will see growing domestic pressure on both sides for confrontation rather than co-operation. This will lead to the effective </span></span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">end of Nato,</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;"> and political rivalry </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">in the middle east, Africa and Asia</span></span>. Europeans would face an America that no longer felt an interest in—and might actively seek to undermine—the united, prosperous Europe that Washington has supported for 60 years<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. And Americans would find themselves dealing with monumental global challenges not only without the support of their most capable potential partners, but perhaps in the face of their opposition.</span></span> Britain would finally be forced to choose between two antagonistic camps. Some argue that such an outcome is inevitable. But I have always thought my friend Robert Kagan’s claim that “Americans are from Mars and Europeans are from Venus” was exaggerated. Obviously there are real and even growing differences between Americans and Europeans on a range of issues. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">The end of the cold war, the rise of US military, political and economic power during the 1990s, and Europe’s preoccupation with the challenges of integration and enlargement, have combined to accentuate these differences</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span> But we have had different strategic perspectives— and fights about strategy—for years, and that never prevented us from working together towards common goals. And despite the provocations from ideologues on both sides, this surely remains possible today. Leaders still have options, and decisions to make. They shape their environment as much as they are shaped by it. The right choices could help put the world’s main liberal democracies back in the same camp, just as the wrong choices could destroy it. WHAT WE need is a “new deal,” and that’s what I am writing to propose: <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">Americans will have to show some humility, admit that we do not have all the answers and agree to listen, consult and even compromise</span></span><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. We must accept that even our immense power and new sense of vulnerability does not mean that we can do whatever we want, however we want. <span style="background-color: yellow;">We must acknowledge that we need allies to achieve our goals, which means bringing others into the decision-making process</span>, </span></span>however frustrating that process might be. On a range of issues that have divided the US and Europe in recent years—from climate change and nuclear testing to international law—<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">Americans will have to recommit to seeking practical compromises with others, rather than assuming that our power exempts us from obligations to the global community. Europeans, in turn, must respect America’s special role and responsibility for global security and join the US in dealing with the challenges such as terrorism and weapons proliferation</span></span><span style="background-color: yellow;">.</span> They must acknowledge that European integration and enlargement—while themselves enormous contributions to world peace—are no longer enough, and that Europeans need to do much more to contribute to peace and security beyond their new borders. In exchange for a real seat at the table, the EU should agree not to try to constrain American power and instead accept the goal of strategic partnership with the US.

[[#_Toc269845960]][[#_Toc269245139]][[#_Toc271275029]][[#_Toc271059294]][[#_Toc271058858]][[#_Toc271055781]][[#_Toc271055685]][[#_Toc271055567]]
Nuclear wars
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">John <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Duffield</span></span>, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, 19<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">94</span></span> [Political Science Quarterly 109:5, p. 766-7]</span>
Initial analyses of NATO's future prospects overlooked at least three <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">important factors</span></span> that have helped to <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">ensure the alliance's enduring relevance</span></span>. First, they underestimated the extent to which <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">external threats</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">sufficient to</span></span> help <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">justify the </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">preservation of the <span style="background-color: lime;">alliance</span></span></span> would <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">continue</span></span> to exist. In fact, NATO still serves to secure its members against a number of actual or potential dangers emanating from outside their territory. <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">These include </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">not only </span></span>the residual threat posed by <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">Russian military </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">power, but</span></span> also the relatively new concerns raised by <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">conflicts in neighboring regions</span></span>. Second, the <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">pessimists failed to consider NATO's capacity for institu­tional adaptation</span></span>. Since the end of the cold war, the alliance has begun to develop two important new functions. <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">NATO is</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> increasingly</span></span> seen as having a significant role to play in <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">containing and controlling</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> milita­rized <span style="background-color: lime;">conflicts in Central and Eastern Europe</span></span></span>. And, at a deeper level, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">it works to **prevent such conflicts from arising** </span></span>at all <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">by</span></span> actively <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">pro­moting stability</span></span> within the former Soviet bloc. Above all, NATO pessimists overlooked the valuable intra-alliance functions that the alliance has always performed and that remain rele­vant after the cold war. Most importantly, NATO has helped stabilize Western Europe, whose states had often been bitter rivals in the past. By damping the security dilemma and providing an institutional mech­anism for the development of common security policies, <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">NATO has contributed to making the use of force in</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> relations among the countries of <span style="background-color: lime;">the region **virtually inconceivable**</span></span></span>. In all these ways, NATO clearly serves the interests of its European members. But even the United States has a significant stake in preserving a peaceful and prosperous Europe. In addition to strong transatlantic historical and cultural ties, American economic interests in Europe— as a leading market for U.S. products, as a source of valuable imports, and as the host for considerable direct foreign investment by American companies — remain substantial. If history is any guide, moreover, <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 10pt;">the United States could easily be drawn into a future **major war** in Europe, the consequences of which would likely be even more **devastating** than those of the past, **given** </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">the existence of <span style="background-color: lime;">nuclear weapons</span></span>**</span>.11
===Atchison and Panetta CP vs Reagan=== 

we now read this as a kritik.

[[#_Toc273651501]][[#_Toc273546702]][[#_Toc273546673]]
[[#_Toc273546673]]Counter-Advocacy: Everyone in this room should discuss the affirmatives advocacy outside of policy debate.

The debate sphere is the wrong forum for their activism—it only scapegoats any competitive opposition and replaces focus on actual change with the instrumentalization of schools of thought and philosophies for the sake of winning a game this turns the case. 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Atchison and Panetta 9</span></span> (Jarrod Atchison, PhD. In Speech Communication. Edward Panetta, Ph.D. in Communication. “Intercollegiate Debate Speech Communication: Historical Developments and Issues for the Future”; The SAGE Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Pg. 28-9)PS. </span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">Downplaying the important role of competition and treating opponents as scapegoats for the failures of the community may increase the profile of the winning team and the community problem, but does little to generate the critical coalitions necessary to address the community problem, because the competitive focus encourages teams to concentrate how to beat the strategy with little regard for addressing the community problem.</span> <span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">An extreme example might include a team arguing that their opponents’ academic institution has a legacy of civil rights abuses and that the judge should not vote for them because that would be a community endorsement of a problematic institution</span></span>. This scenario is a bit more outlandish but not unreasonable if one assumes that each debate sould be about what is best for promoting solutions to diversity problems in the debate community<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">. If the debate community is serious about generating change, then it is more likely to occur </span></span><span class="Emphasis2"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">outside of traditional competitive debate</span></span>. When a team loses a debate because the judge decides it is better for the debate community for the other team to win, then they have sacrificed two potential advocates for change within the debate community. Creating change through wins generates backlash through losses. Some proponents are comfortable with generating backlash and argue that the reaction is evidence that the issue is being discussed. From our perspective, the discussion that results from these hostile situations is not a productive one where participants seek to work togerher for a common goal. Instead of giving up on hope for change and agitating for wins regardless of who is left behind, it seems more reasonable that the debate community should try the method of public argument that we teach in an effort to generate a discussion of necessary community changes. Simply put, debate competitions do not represent the best environment for community change because it is a competition for a win and only one team can win any given debate, whereas addressing systemic century-long community problems requires a tremendous effort by a great number of people.

===Congress CP=== 

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP Text: The United States Congress should end all funding for . </span></span></span>

The plan would go through the executive; CP uses the power of the purse to unilaterally to end funding for the presence—empirically proven
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosen 07</span></span> (Jefferey; NYT writer;“In Wartime, Who has the Power?”; Published: March 4, 2007</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?_r=2&pagewanted=1]])AB</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">THE Constitution seems relatively clear. ….you could have 535 generals shouting instructions</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.”</span>



Absent Congress taking back executive power from the Bush administration—a framework for executive power will be set in stone. Congress has the power to end war and the CP is key to support of the public. 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schenwar 09</span></span> (Executive Director of Truthout; Congress Aims to Take Back Constitutional War Powers Wednesday 14 January 2009 <span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif;"> [[@http://www.truth-out.org/011409J|//by: Maya Schenwar, Executive Director, t r u t h o u t// ]])AB</span></span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">As America anticipates the official arrival of the ….</span></span> Bush's action is a major breach, according to Lee.





<span class="tagChar">Nuclear War</span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Forrester 89</span></span> [Ray, Professor, @ Hastings College of the Law, University of California, Former dean of the law schools at Vanderbilt, Tulane, and Cornell, “Presidential Wars in the Nuclear Age: An Unresolved Problem” George Washington Law Review, August, 57 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 1636, Lexis]

A basic theory--if not the basic theory of our Constitution--is that <span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">…-remains in the sole possession of the President</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>

===Russia ADV CP=== 

CP TEXT: The United States federal government should
-overturn the NATO Freedom Consolidation Act of 2007
-stop missile defense implementation
- repudiate the Bush administration’s National Security Strategy of 2002 and 2006

It solves 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jeffery </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Taylor, </span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">is an Atlantic correspondent living in Moscow </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2008</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Medvedev Spoils the Party, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/200811u/medvedev-obama/2]]</span>]AB</span></span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The question then arises: what should the incoming</span></span>. …. its defense expenditures and redirect taxpayer dollars to other priorities. 


===Gulf Detterence CP=== 

The United States federal government should offer formal security guarantees to Israel, Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, and all Gulf States except Iran to protect them in the event of Iranian aggression. The United States should inform Iran that the use of nuclear weapons, by Iran or by a terrorist proxy, will be met with a response that ends the current regime in Iran, and that an Iranian nuclear test constitutes a redline that could trigger stepped up United States attempts at regime change or United States attacks against Iranian oil assets.

That solves deterrence issues
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madson 06</span></span> (Peter; master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School; “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA445779;March)AB</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">As</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> the sole remaining <span style="background-color: yellow;">superpower</span> and guarantor of …... <span style="background-color: yellow;">In the end, nuclear proliferation is a fact. How it is managed will determine whether or not it adds or detracts from regional security.</span> </span></span>

That solves proliferation, hegemony and economic decline 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madson 06</span></span> (Peter; master’s thesis for the Naval Postgraduate School; “THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA445779;March)AB</span>

<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 10pt;">The Arabian Gulf is a critical area of the world for U.S. security …. joining a nuclear umbrella to offset Iran’s nuclear weapons.</span> </span>





===Training CP=== 

[[#_Toc277194798]][[#_Toc276683000]]
CP Text: The United States federal government should use the current militaries on Okinawa and Guam to engage in joint military training off of the coast of Japan. The United States federal government should ask Japan to engage in these trainings. The United States federal government should provide co-location of air and missile defense commands at Yokota Air Base and the Ground Self-Defense Force’s Central Readiness Force with a transformed U.S. Army command and control structure to integrate Japan into them. The United States federal government will not engage in training 12 nautical miles off of the coast of Japan. 

Japan says yes, solves alliance, the internal link to defense integration, is the biggest internal link to speed and response and increases trilateral relations with South Korea
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFPS</span></span> Lisa Daniel American Forces Press Service March 18, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> “U.S.-Japan Relations Remain Strong, Official Says” http://www.defense.gov/news/newsarticle.aspx?id=58392 
“The only readily deployable U.S. ground forces between Hawaii and ….. Europe, and its assistance with humanitarian relief to Haiti and other areas.

That solves democracy, china spread, rule of law, East Asia instability, social advancements, human rights violations and economic collapse 
**Auslin ‘5** (Michael, Teaches Japanese History – Yale and Dir. Project on Japan-U.S. Relations, Orbis, “Japan and South Korea: The New East Asian Core”, 49:3, Summer, ScienceDirect)
A roadmap for Tokyo and Seoul's security cooperation exists in their current participation in regional multilateral forums. Both Seoul and Tokyo are members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Community and the __asean__ Regional Forum. The latter in p…..Taiwan and the Philippines.



==**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">Disads</span>__**== 
===**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 16pt;">China Con </span>__**=== 

[[#_Toc277194799]][[#_Toc276683001]]
**<span style="color: black;">China-Japan tension is high over Senkaku dispute—only US military presence in Japan prevents war </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Global Security 2009 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(9/3, </span><span style="color: blue;">http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/war/senkaku.htm</span><span style="color: black;">, NB: the quoted text is </span>
<span style="color: black;">from Ian Bremmer, President of the Eurasia Group) </span>
"Last year, there were reportedly some 47,000 demonstrations …**to the presence of US forces nearby.**

**<span style="color: black;">China is pursuing aggressive policy towards East China sea now—withdrawal leads to conflict and Chinese </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">regional hegemony </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Caryl 2010 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Christian, Foreign Policy, “Navel Gazing in Asia,” </span>
<span style="color: black;">http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/05/18/naval_gazing_in_asia) </span>
Beneath the two countries' wrangling on the high seas lies a complicated ….**iance for fissures**."

**<span style="color: black;">Asian war goes nuclear and global—maintaining troop levels is key- turns case </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Sheridan 9 </span>**<span style="color: black;">(Greg, Foreign editor – The Australian, “Hatoyama poised for global struggle,” The Australian, 9-5-09, </span>
<span style="color: black;">http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,26027029-7583,00.html </span>
<span style="color: black;">Kurt Campbell, now the US Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and the Pacific….</span> **<span style="color: black;">Japan and the US military bases it hosts are central to the US position in Asia. </span>**<span style="color: black;">Japan, a nation of 125 million people, is still the world's second-largest economy, far bigger than any of the Europeans. The Obama administration seems to get this.</span>

===START=== 

<span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">[[#_Toc277932379]]We tend to not read uniqueness when pedro eats to many burritos.......</span>




[[#_Toc277932380]][[#_Toc277932322]][[#_Toc277932265]][[#_Toc277932207]][[#_Toc277932150]][[#_Toc277932094]][[#_Toc277932037]]- Policy
2. Withdrawal now would be political suicide – Obama would be pegged as weak on defense
Kapur, Raw Story Washington correspondent,<span class="cite"> 7-5<span style="font-weight: normal;">-10 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sahil, THE WASHINGTON INDEPENDENT, National News in Context “As Afghan War Drags On, Some Democrats Threaten Revolt, Votes Last Week Revealed Democratic Growing Schism.” [[http://washingtonindependent.com/90906/as-afghan-war-drags-on-some-democrats-threaten-revolt]], accessed 7-16-10) </span>

“Generally, <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">members of your own party support your foreign policy</span></span>,” he said. “<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">It’s typical</span></span> that <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">you have to worry more about the opposition party than your own</span></span>, and <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the fact</span></span> that <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Democrats are expressing reservations should send a warning sign to</span></span> the <span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Obama</span></span> administration…<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> its promise to begin winding America’s involvement in the war next July. “6 </span>

3. Capital is key to START ratification, Obama has room to juggle some issues but adding an additional contentious issue will doom arms control
James <span class="cite">Kitfield</span> October 9 <span class="cite">2009</span> The National Journal Group, Wars, Political Battles Complicate Obama Effort to Prevent Spread of Nuclear Weapons, Google News
<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Because <span style="background-color: yellow;">arms control treaties require a two-thirds majority</span> vote in the Senate</span></span> for ratification…. <span class="Emphasis2"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 12pt;">arms control, but he'll pay a price."</span> </span>


[[#_Toc277932381]][[#_Toc277932323]][[#_Toc277932266]][[#_Toc277932208]][[#_Toc277932151]][[#_Toc277932095]][[#_Toc277932038]]- Policy 
4. 12 internal links to nuclear war—one of these will turn case 
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins</span></span> et al <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span> (Ambassador James F. Collins; Harvard; was appointed the director of the Russia and Eurasia Program in January of 2007. He is an expert on the former Soviet Union, its successor states, and on the Middle East. Ambassador Collins was the U.S. ambassador to the Russian Federation from 1997 to 2001. Prior to joining the Carnegie Endowment, he served as senior adviser at the public law and policy practice group Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, LLP. Before his appointment as ambassador to Russia, he served as ambassador-at-large and special adviser to the secretary of state for the New Independent States in the mid 1990s and as deputy chief of mission and charge d'affaires at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow from 1990 to 1993. In addition to three diplomatic postings in Moscow, he also held positions in the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan, and the Consulate General in Izmir, Turkey. He is the recipient of the Secretary of State's Award for Distinguished Service; the Department of State's Distinguished Honor Award; the Secretary of State’s Award for Career Achievement; the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service; and the NASA Medal for Distinguished Service. Ambassador Collins has been active on the boards of non-profit organizations concerned with U.S. foreign policy and U.S. relations with Russia, East Europe, and Eurasia. He has served as a member of the board of the U.S.-Russia Business Council, the American Academy of Diplomacy, the Open World Leadership Center, and American Councils for International Education. He is also a member of the advisory board of the Civilian Research and Development Foundation and the Library of Foreign Literature in Moscow. Before joining the State Department, Ambassador Collins taught Russian and European history, American government, and economics at the U.S. Naval Academy. http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=30993 START is Key to Reducing the Nuclear Threat James F. Collins, Matthew Rojansky The Hill, February 16, 2010)AB</span>

The debate about a new nuclear arms control agreement between the United States and Russia has devolved into a tug-of-war in ….<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, but if history is any guide, it is where we must begin</span></span>.



===Israel DA=== 

[[#_Toc277890539]][[#_Toc277890486]][[#_Toc277888744]][[#_Toc277887175]][[#_Toc277886099]][[#_Toc277886079]]
Withdrawal will show Israel that there isn’t force to back up the sanctions on Iran; this leads to a strike on Iran 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">World of Judaica 7/18</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (7/18/10, " Israel may have Convinced US of Military Option for Iran; Attack by September? ", http://www.worldofjudaica.com/jewish-news/israel/israel-may-have-convinced-us-of-military-option-for-iran-attack-by-september/442/03/) </span>

<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">As sanctions on Iran begin to heat up, so do Iran’s nuclear efforts. ….. Palestinians do not make progress by then, the days of Netanyahu’s administration may be numbered, forcing him to make a decision regarding Iran by the start of Fall. </span></span>

**Nuclear escalation**
**The Heritage Foundation 2009** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(33 Minutes: Protecting America in The New Missile Age, Israel Nuclear Weapons, March 13, <span style="color: black;">http://www.heritage.org/33-minutes/israel-nuclear-weapons.htm</span>) </span>

The nation of Iran has been giving hundreds of millions a year to support ….<span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">unlike the world has seen.</span></span>

===Ethanol DA=== 

1NC
Ethanol tax-credit will pass now despite the outcome of midterms but political capital is necessary to pass the bill that will in turn save the economy
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bevill </span>**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">3/11</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Kris; Editor @ EP Magazine; 11/3/10, " Post election: Groups continue to lobby for VEETC, California says yes to LCFS ", http://ethanolproducer.com/article.jsp?article_id=7108)AB </span>
The Republican Party claimed victory Nov. 2 as …. tariff extension, he admitted, but it is possible. 

(insert plan unpopular) 

Nuclear war
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">[[#_Toc140034284]][[#_Toc140033733]][[#_Toc140033320]][[#_Toc140004341]]</span>
[[#_Toc140034285]][[#_Toc140033734]][[#_Toc140033321]][[#_Toc140004342]]
History may suggest that financial crises actually help capitalist great powers maintain their leads--…. still<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> have to fight. </span></span>


==Kritiks== 
===Security K=== 

[[#_Toc278586717]][[#_Toc278584564]]
<span class="cite">The affirmatives epistemological prevention of threats seeks to legitimate the operation of power that produces the impacts in the first place- turning case. This vacuous space of reason culminates in nuclear annihilation. </span>
<span class="cite">Massumi 07 </span>(Brian, Communication Department of the Université de Montréal , “Potential Politics and the Primacy of Preemption”) 

It is certain that there will be adjustments. But it should be remembered that Bush referred …..<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (a certainty about what you and your opponent are capable of doing) dynamizes into an ontology or mode of being (a race for dear life).</span></span>
[[#_Toc278586718]][[#_Toc278584565]] <span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">1NC</span>
Our alternative does not preclude the policy of the 1ac. The alternative is to reject the aff’s representations of security; only a rejection of this in the debate space allows for political thought. 
Mark <span class="Author-Date">Neocleous</span>, Prof. of Government @ Brunel, <span class="Author-Date">‘08</span> [//Critique of Security//, 185-6] 
<span class="underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Garamond,serif;">The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape the fetish, is perhaps to eschew the logic of security altogether </span>….. to the authoritarian tendencies in contemporary politics. </span>

===<span class="underline">Ethics K </span>=== 


The aff’s Dyadic depiction of suffering victimizes the subject resulting in dehumanization, these depictions just replace one form of colonialism with another, because the ethic the aff enforces makes further involvement with the subject inevitable

David **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chandler</span>** ( Research Fellow at the Policy Research Institute) 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">01</span>** “ The Road to Military Humanitarianism: How the Human Rights NGOs Shaped A New Humanitarian Agenda” Human Rights Quarterly 23.3 muse
The search for victims has dominated media coverage of humanitarian crises. ….. __The misanthropic side to this development is drawn out further in the following section, which highlights the danger that rather than supplementing traditional humanitarianism, rights-based intervention can lead to the "ethical" justification for subordinating universal humanitarian needs to selective political ends.__



Claims to ethical absolutes enforce a dyadic ethical structure that makes warfare inevitable
Louiza **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Odysseus</span>** (PhD International Relations) March 20**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span>** “ Against Ethics? Iconographies of Enmity and Acts of Obligation in Carl Schmitt’s Theory of the Partisan” http://www.louizaodysseos.org.uk/resources/Odysseos+ISA+2008+Against+Ethics.pdf

A third objection, still, has to do __with the imposition of particular kind of monism: despite the lip-service to plurality,……: the friend/enemy distinction is not longer taking place with a justus hostis but rather between good and evil, human and inhuman, where ‘the negative pole of the distinction is to be fully and finally consumed without remainder’__ (Rasch 2003: 137). 


The Alternative Refuses the 1ACs Demand to Situate Politics In some Ethical Framework. We Ask You to Embrace a Capacity For Action Without Ground. This Avoids the Totalitarian Compulision //Legislate// a Harmonious Society into Existance
Dna Richard **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Villa</span>**, Prof. of Political Theory @ UC Santa Barbra, ’**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">94</span>** [//Arendt and Heidegger: The Fate of The Political//, p. 159-163]

As a political principle, then, authority conflicts with Arendt's basic convictions as to what authentic politics is (namely, something that occurs only in "the egalitarian order of persuasion").92 How to explain the impression that she mourns its passing? This impression is created, in part, by her citing the …..__<span style="background-color: yellow;">, the “moral” means by which to prolong our mechanical habits of judgment and escape the complexity – and effort – of thinking and judging for ourselves.</span>__

===__<span style="background-color: yellow;">Cede the Political K</span>__=== 

[[#_Toc279089537]]

**The affirmative is banal. Your hippy authors and this round do NOTHING, rather it just appeases the system through reform, trapping us in the militarized empire.**
<span style="margin-left: 0in;">Todd <span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Gitlin </span></span>formerly served as professor of sociology and director of the mass communications program at the University of California, Berkeley, and then a professor of culture, journalism and sociology at New York University. He is now a professor of journalism and sociology and chair of the Ph.D. program in Communications at Columbia University. He was a long-time political activist( from the Left). From the Book: The Intellectuals and the Flag – 200<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">5</span></span> – available via CIAO Books – date accessed 7/17/10 – http://www.ciaonet.org.proxy1.cl.msu.edu/book/git01/git01_05.pdf</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">From the</span></span> late <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">New Left point of view,.....</span> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">mocking Left rather than a Left which dreams of achieving</span></span>
our country.”4

<span class="Underline0">**Fascism and extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline0">**Boggs, 1997**</span>

<span class="Underline0"> (Carl, National University, Los Angeles, Theory and Society, “The great retreat: Decline of the public sphere in late twentieth-century America”, December, Volume 26, Number 6,http://www.springerlink.com.proxy.library.emory.edu/content/m7254768m63h16r0/fulltext.pdf)</span>


**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The decline of the public sphere in ....</span>__**<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> vanished from civil society.</span>__**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">75</span></span>


<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="Underline0">Our alternative is a vision of debate that connects argument to instrumental politics. We know fiat isn’t real but a connection to political advocacy is key to engaging the public. Use the ballot to reject their insular approach that forgoes meaningful political advocacy.</span></span>


<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Giroux, 04</span></span>

<span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">(Henry, professor of English and cultural studies at McMaster University in Canada, Policy Futures in Education, Volume 2, </span></span>Numbers<span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> 3 & 4, 2004, “Public Pedagogy and the Politics of Neo-liberalism: </span></span>making the political more pedagogical”, http://www.wwwords.co
<span class="Underline0"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">.uk/pdf/viewpdf.asp?j=pfie&vol=2&issue=3&year=2004&article=5_Giroux_PFIE_2_3-4_web&id=170.140.58.157)</span></span>


<span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">By linking education to the project of an ......</span></span>
<span style="display: inline !important;"> **<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">of global protests and collective resistance.</span>**</span>



Also, they aren’t getting away with a changed “Ontology” impact.

The community is forgetful- they won’t care about this round. Engaging in public forum debates and discussions outside of competitive debate for individual ethos and preserving the community for political activism solves back all their offense. 

Atchison and Panetta, 09 

<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">(Jarrod Atchison, Phd Rhetoric University of Georgia, Assistant Professor and Director of debate at Wake Forest University, and Edward Panetta, Phd Rhetoric Associate Professor University of Pitt and Director of Debate at Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Speech Communication, Historical Developments and Issues for the Future, <span style="color: black;">“Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future,” The Sage Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Lunsford, Andrea, ed. (Los Angeles: Sage Publications Inc., 2009) p. 317-334</span>)</span>

__In addition to the structural<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">..... wins and losses of their own debaters</span></span>__