[[toc]]
2A: <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[mailto:michael.ilikemike@gmail.com|michael.ilikemike@gmail.com]]</span>
2N: [[mailto:modernliuassociation@gmail.com|modernliuassociation@gmail.com]]
Both of us have all the cites, though.

=Affirmative= 

==1AC - Churchill== 
Plan: The United States federal government should remove the United States’ B-61 gravity bombs from the Republic of Turkey.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention One is Inherency</span></span>

**B61s have been reduced in the past, 90 are still in Turkey and useless**

<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Alexandra </span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bell</span></span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">is the research assistant for Nuclear Policy at the Center for American Progress. Bell received a master's degree in International Affairs from the New School and a bachelor's degree in Peace, War and Defense and U.S. History from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Her graduate work focused on nonproliferation and security issues in the Middle East. 11-23-200</span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">9</span></span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">[The status of U.S. nuclear weapons in Turkey, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/-web-edition/features/the-status-of-us-nuclear-weapons-turkey]]] VP</span></span>
<span class="NothingChar">For more than 40 years, Turkey has been a quiet custodian of U.S. tactical nuclear weapons. During the Cold War, Washington positioned intermediate-range nuclear missiles and bombers there to serve as a bulwark against the Soviet Union</span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">(i.e., to defend the region against Soviet attack and to influence Soviet strategic calculations). In the event of a Soviet assault on Europe, the weapons were to be fired as one of the first retaliatory shots. But</span> <span class="NothingChar">as the Cold War waned, so, too, did the weapons' strategic value. Thus, over the last few decades, the United States has removed all of its intermediate-range missiles from Turkey and reduced its other nuclear weapons there through gradual redeployments and arms control agreements. Today, Turkey hosts an estimated 90 B61 gravity bombs at Incirlik Air Base.</span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Fifty of these bombs are [[@http://nukestrat.com/pubs/EuroBombs.pdf|reportedly]] PDF assigned for delivery by U.S. pilots, and forty are assigned for delivery by the Turkish Air Force. However, no permanent nuclear-capable U.S. fighter wing is based at Incirlik, and </span><span class="NothingChar">the Turkish Air Force is </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">[[@http://library.fes.de/pdf-files/bueros/stockholm/06123.pdf|__reportedly__]]</span></span><span class="NothingChar"> PDF not certified for NATO nuclear missions, meaning nuclear-capable F-16s from other U.S. bases would need to be brought in if Turkey's bombs were ever needed. Such a relaxed posture makes clear just how little NATO relies on tactical nuclear weapons for its defense anymore</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">. In fact, the readiness of NATO's nuclear forces now is measured in months as opposed to hours or days. Supposedly, the weapons are still deployed as a matter of deterrence, but</span> <span class="NothingChar">the crux of deterrence is sustaining an aggressor's perception of guaranteed rapid reprisal</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">--a perception the </span><span class="NothingChar">nuclear bombs deployed in Turkey cannot significantly add to because they are unable to be rapidly launched. Aggressors are more likely to be deterred by NATO's conventional power or the larger strategic forces supporting its nuclear umbrella</span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. So in effect, </span></span><span class="NothingChar">U.S. tactical nuclear weapons in Turkey are without military value or purpose </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention Two is Terrorism</span>**</span>

**Terrorist have a bull’s-eye for Incirlik**

Aslıhan **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Tümer</span></span>** is a disarmament campaigner for Greenpeace Turkey, 6-8-200**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">6</span></span>** [“NATO’s Nuclear Sharing and Incirlik” International Network of Engineers and Scientists Against Proliferation, http://www.inesap.org/sites/default/files/inesap_old/bulletin26/art11.htm] 
In recent months there were news reports on possible attacks on the Incirlik Air Base by Iran’s Sahab-3 missiles, and newspapers ran a story on plans by Al-Quaeda to attack the base. This fed long-standing discussions on potential dangers NATO nuclear weapons might pose to Turkey. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The current deployment of NATO nuclear weapons in European countries reflects a Cold War view and mentality. But </span>the Soviet Union ceased to exist and is therefore no longer a threat, if indeed it ever was. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The NATO-Russia Council brings the countries together as equal partners and gives the opportunity to identify and pursue joint actions. Apparently, </span>the dangers are now perceived to come from the Middle East. But keeping nuclear missiles on the outer edge of NATO territory is at best provocative and increases the security threats in the region as well as globally. By basing nuclear missiles in this region, the US puts the local people at risk, with the Bull’s Eye being right at Incirlik Air Base. <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The NATO nuclear weapons should be sent back to the US for dismantling. Not only is this a way to increase the security of Turkey as well as the Middle East, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">it would also send a positive message to countries in the region and globally by demonstrating the willingness of Turkey to support by words and deeds a nuclear free zone in the Middle East. Turkey has a unique opportunity to play a positive role in the region and beyond. Sending these nuclear weapons back to the US and moving NATO towards peace-keeping rather than war-making would take us all on a path of peace and true security. </span></span>

**These attacks are occurring now**

Barbara <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Starr</span></span>, 10-23-**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">10 </span></span>**[http://abcnews.go.com/International/story?id=82296&page=1, U.S. Military on 'High Alert'] VN 
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">ABCNEWS has learned that </span>U.S. military personnel <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">in three critical locations </span>have been put on the very highest state of alert after being warned of potential terrorist attacks<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">. </span>At the U.S. Air Force installation at Incirlik, Turkey, officials say “credible” and “specific” warnings have been received. The level of credibility about the warning is so high, that “even the Turks believe it,”<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> one source told ABCNEWS, indicating </span>the threat was very visible and believable.<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> Details surrounding the warnings are being closely held, but </span>officials say the information<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> generally </span>involves<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;"> surveillance of U.S. personnel and </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">plans for a specific attack. The threat has grown in the last few days following initial concerns last week when U.S. military personnel said they were under surveillance. </span></span>

**A nuclear attack would escalate to extinction**


Dennis Ray **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Morgan</span></span>**, Prof Current Affairs at Hankuk University in South Korea, 12-**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span>**, [“World on Fire: Two Scenarios of the Destruction of Human Civilization and Possible Extinction of the Human Race” Futures, Vol 41 No 10, Dec 09. ScienceDirect] JV
In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question ‘‘Is Nuclear War Inevitable??’’ [10]. 4 In Section 1, Moore points out what most <span class="NothingChar">terrorists</span> obviously already know about the nuclear tensions between powerful countries. No doubt, they’ve <span class="NothingChar">ﬁgured out that the best way to escalate </span>these <span class="NothingChar">tensions into nuclear war is to set off a nuclear exchange</span>. As Moore points out, <span class="NothingChar">all that militant terrorists would have to do is get their hands on one small nuclear bomb and explode it </span>on either Moscow or Israel. Because of the Russian ‘‘dead hand’’ system, ‘‘where regional nuclear commanders would be given full powers should Moscow be destroyed,’’ it is likely that any attack would be blamed on the United States’’ [10]. <span class="NothingChar">Israeli leaders and Zionist supporters have</span>, likewise, <span class="NothingChar">stated for years that if Israel were to suffer a nuclear attack</span>, whether from terrorists or a nation state, <span class="NothingChar">it would retaliate with the suicidal ‘‘Samson option’’ against all major Muslim cities in the Middle East</span>. Furthermore, <span class="NothingChar">the Israeli Samson option would also include attacks on Russia and even ‘‘anti-Semitic’’ European cities</span> [10]. In that case, of course, Russia would retaliate, and <span class="NothingChar">the U.S. would then retaliate against Russia</span>. <span class="NothingChar">China would probably be involved as well, as thousands, if not tens of thousands, of nuclear warheads</span>, many of them much more powerful than those used at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, <span class="NothingChar">would rain upon most of the major cities in the Northern Hemisphere</span>. Afterwards, for years to come, <span class="NothingChar">massive radioactive clouds would drift throughout the Earth in the nuclear fallout, bringing death</span> or else radiation disease that would be genetically transmitted <span class="NothingChar">to future generations in a nuclear winter</span> that could last as long as a 100 years, taking a savage toll upon the environment and fragile ecosphere as well. And what <span class="NothingChar">many people fail to realize is what a precarious, hair-trigger basis the nuclear web rests on. Any accident, mistaken communication, false signal or ‘‘lone wolf’ act of sabotage</span> or treason <span class="NothingChar">could</span>, in a matter of a few minutes, <span class="NothingChar">unleash the use of nuclear weapons</span>, and once a weapon is used, then <span class="NothingChar">the likelihood of a rapid escalation of nuclear attacks is quite high </span>while the likelihood of a limited nuclear war is actually less probable <span class="NothingChar">since each country would act under the ‘‘use them or lose them’’ strategy</span> and psychology; restraint by one power would be interpreted as a weakness by the other, which could be exploited as a window of opportunity to ‘‘win’’ the war. 

**And removal prevents theft**

Mustafa **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kibaroglu</span></span>** is a Professor and Vice Chair, International Relations Dept., Bilkent University, Ankara, Turkey, December 200**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">5</span></span>** [“Isn’t it Time to Say Farewell to Nukes in Turkey?” European Security http://mustafakibaroglu.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu-EuropeanSecurity-USnukesTurkey-December2005.pdf] VP
Dramatic changes have taken place in the international security environment over the last decade. These changes, however, are being assessed differently among officials and experts regarding the role of nuclear weapons. The viability as well as the credibility of the nuclear posture of NATO, including the implicit ‘first use’ strategy of the Alliance, is still of utmost importance for Turkish officials.23 <span class="NothingChar">However, the very nature of the emerging threats, especially since the 9/11 attacks, requires a thorough revision of the ways and means of dealing with them. Admittedly, nuclear weapons have become inappropriate in the face of the new threats posed to the free world by terrorist organizations. Retaining them simply increases the probability of theft and the use by terrorists of some crude radiological devices or even nuclear weapons. Therefore, in addition to taking tighter measures to safeguard nuclear and radiological material in places where they are stored, bolder steps must be taken by concerned countries to ultimately get rid of nuclear weapons. Such steps should begin withdrawing-down the US nuclear weapons deployed in allied countries overseas including Turkey.</span> Nevertheless, the official view is diametrically opposed to their withdrawal. Below is an account of why this is the case. 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention Three is Accidental War</span>**</span>

**We’ll isolate three internal links,**

**F**irst,

**Relations on the brink and adapting to current realities is key**

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">George <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Friedman</span></span> ,editor of STRATFOR, <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">1/3/</span></span>2011[“ Following START, whither America-Russian Relations?”, The Nuclear Edge, http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=31740] </span>
Rather than building confidence between the two countries, a <span class="NothingChar">New START</span> would <span class="NothingChar">give the illusion of success while leaving fundamental issues to fester</span>. The counter-argument was that with this success others would follow. The counter to that was that by spending energy on a New START, the United States delayed and ignored more fundamental issues. The debate is worth having, and both sides have a case, but <span class="NothingChar">the idea that START in itself mattered is not part of that debate</span>. In the end, the issue boiled down to this. <span class="NothingChar">START was marginal at best</span>. But if President Barack Obama couldn’t deliver on START his credibility with the Russians would collapse<span class="NothingChar">. It wasn’t so much that a New START would build confidence as it was that a failure to pass a New START would destroy confidence.</span> It was on that basis that the U.S. Senate approved the treaty. Its opponents argued that<span class="NothingChar"> it left out discussions of BMD and tactical nuclear weapons.</span> Their more powerful argument was that <span class="NothingChar">the United States just negotiated a slightly modified version of a treaty that Ronald Reagan proposed a quarter century ago and it had nothing to do with contemporary geopolitical reality. Passage allowed Obama to dodge a bullet, but</span> it leaves open a question that he does not want to answer: <span class="NothingChar">What is American strategy toward Russia? He has mimicked American strategy from a quarter century ago, not defined what it will be. </span>

**Removal key to prevent relations and reshape the threat based relationship**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hans</span> **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kristensen</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists.March 200</span>**<span class="AuthorDateChar">6</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Federation of American Scientists, "U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Europe: Current Posture and Policy Implications," http://www.allacademic.com//meta/p_mla_apa_research_ citation/1/0/0/9/1/pages100915/p100915-1.php// </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such </span><span class="NothingChar">nuclear bickering between U.S. and Russian government officials was common during the Cold War. The fact that it occurs today – more than a decade and a half after the Cold War ended and nearly three years after the 2001 NPR declared an end to nuclear animosity with Russia – illustrates the danger of continuing the status quo and how easy it is for nuclear leftovers to suddenly rise to the top of the problem agenda.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">It shows that the forward deployment </span><span class="NothingChar">of U.S. nuclear weapons in Europe is an important irritant to improved relations between Russia and NATO</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">far out of proportion to the vague and unspecific benefits these weapons allegedly contribute to NATO’s security interests. </span><span class="NothingChar">The nuclear weapons in Europe undercut improved relations with Russia because they underscore that the relationship continues to be threat-based. </span>

**Reduction of TNWs key to show commitment**

Claudine **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Lamond</span></span>**, Senior analyst and contributor to International Security Report, June 20**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span>**[Tactical Nuclear Weapons in Russian Foreign Policy, International Security Report, http://www.atlantic-community.org/app/webroot/files/articlepdf/140809_ISR%20-%20Russian%20TNW%20C%20Lamond.pdf] 
Instead,<span class="NothingChar"> Russia is likely to attempt to appeal to other states within the NPT process and other disarmament for a by proposing that nuclear weapon states be banned from forward<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>deploying their nuclear weapons on other states’ soil</span> (<span class="NothingChar">the United States is currently the only state to do this through stationing TNW in five European states</span>). This will appeal implicitly to the NPT Articles I and II that ban signatories from supplying or receiving nuclear weapons or their components. Such pressure could be counter<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">‐</span>productive, as it would be applied on the United States rather than NATO allies most supportive of the current NATO arrangements. Russia and the US possess 95% of the world’s nuclear weapons,35 a clear legacy from the Cold War. <span class="NothingChar">This situation must be addressed if Russian<span style="font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif;">‐</span>American relations are to substantially improve, as the Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov recently stated: “If we are serious about the need to reset our relations, then we must get rid of the toxic assets inherited from the last years…. otherwise we cannot successfully reinvigorate the US–Russian dialogue</span>, which, in view of the special responsibility of our two countries, is in the interest of the entire international community.” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">36</span>

**Relations key to treaties and to prevent war**
Stephen **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Cohen</span></span>**, Professor of Russian Studies and History at NYU, 5/25/20<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">10</span></span> [US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 20**10**, [[http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen]]] 
**Cohen**: <span class="NothingChar">The real concern I have with this "we won the Cold War" triumphalism is the mythology that we are safer today than we were when the Soviet Union existed</span>. Though it is blasphemous to say so, <span class="NothingChar">we are not safer for several reasons, one being that the Soviet state kept the lid on very dangerous things. The Soviet Union was in control of its nuclear and related arsenals. Post-Soviet Russia is "sorta" in control, but "sorta" is not enough</span>. There is no margin for error. Reagan's goal in the 1980s was not to end the Soviet Union, but to turn it into a permanent partner of the United States. He came very close to achieving that and deserves enormous credit. He did what had to be done by meeting Gorbachev half-way. But <span class="NothingChar">since 1991, the arrogance of American policymaking toward Russia has either kept the Cold War from being fully ended or started a new one. The greatest threats to our national security still reside in Russia. </span>This is not because it's communist, but because it is laden with all these nuclear, chemical, and biological devices—that’s the threat. The reaction of the second Bush administration was to junk decades of safe-guarding agreements with Moscow. It was the first time in modern times that we have had no nuclear control reduction agreement with the Russians. <span class="NothingChar">What should worry us every day and night is the triumphalist notion that nuclear war is no longer possible. It is now possible in even more ways than before, especially accidental ones. Meanwhile, the former Soviet territories remain a Wal-Mart of dirty material and know-how. If terrorists ever explode a dirty device in the United States, even a small one, the material is likely to come from the former Soviet Union.</span> The Nunn-Lugar Act (1992) was the best program Congress ever enacted to help Russia secure its nuclear material and know-how, a major contribution to American national security. But no one in Washington connects the dots. <span class="NothingChar">Take Senator Lugar himself. He seems not to understand that we need Russia's complete cooperation to make his own legislation fully successful, but he repeatedly speaks undiplomatically, even in ugly ways, about Russia’s leaders, thereby limiting their cooperation and undermining his own legacy. In other words, to have a nuclear relationship with Russia that will secure our national security, we must have a fully cooperative, trusting political relationship with Moscow. That’s why all the talk about a replacement for the expired START agreement, which Obama has been having trouble reaching with the Kremlin, is half-witted. Even if the two sides agree, and even if the Senate and Russian Duma ratify a new treaty, the agreement will be unstable because the political relationship is bad and growing worse.</span> Evidently, no one in the Administration, Congress, or the mainstream media, or, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots. 

**Second, Error -** 
**Poor tech and high alert means a near instant war**

Danny **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Nassre</span></span>** is a political analyst 12-15-200**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">8</span></span>** [“In Midnight’s Shadow” [[http://www.gcadvocate.com/2008/12/in-midnights-shadow/]]] 
<span class="NothingChar">The possibility of an accidental nuclear launch is not as absurd</span> as it may sound, especially <span class="NothingChar">when one considers</span> the complexity and age of the technologies involved, and <span class="NothingChar">the “high-alert” status of the US and Russian arsenals — one which allows for deciding how to respond to a perceived attack after </span>as little as <span class="NothingChar">twenty minutes</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of deliberation.A 1998 article in the</span>New England Journal of Medicine entitled “Accidental Nuclear War – A Post Cold-War Assessment,” co-authored by several nuclear security experts, notes that a number of <span class="NothingChar">authorities consider a launch based on a false warning to be the most likely form of an accidental attack.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">They are quick to point out that “this </span><span class="NothingChar">danger is not theoretical</span>,” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and mention two breakdowns in the US system in 1979 and 1980, </span><span class="NothingChar">caused by human error and computer-chip failures</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which indicated that a massive Soviet strike was imminent. They also note a 1995 incident in which a US scientific research rocket launched from Norway activated Russian “nuclear suitcases,” leading to an emergency conference which decided that there was, in fact, no threat of an attack, supposedly just four minutes before standard procedure would have mandated a decision.Since this incident, </span><span class="NothingChar">Russia’s early-warning systems have become even less reliable</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as its number of early-warning satellites has been reduced from nine to three. Because </span><span class="NothingChar">Russia’s deployed arsenal is especially vulnerable to surprise attack, with much of it in poorly-defended</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> silos, mobile units, and docked submarines, it has a greater incentive to respond to perceived threats quickly. A recent report by the Federation of American Scientists says that “</span><span class="NothingChar">the next time Russia interprets a benign event as a potential nuclear attack, it is not clear that it will have enough information to decide that it can afford to wait.”</span>

**Third- Mentality**
**Article 5 makes Russian war inevitable**

<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">Ted </span>**<span class="Author-Date">Carpenter</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> Ph.D. is the vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute 3/30/</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">20</span>**<span class="Author-Date">09</span>**<span style="font-size: 8.0pt;"> [</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;"> “NATO at 60: A Hollow Alliance,”CATO </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">[[@http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/pa635.pdf|http://www.cato.org/pubs/pas/ pa635.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt; font-weight: normal;">] </span>
Taking on <span class="NothingChar">the obligation to defend the Baltic countries was</span> especially <span class="NothingChar">unwise</span>, because <span class="NothingChar">NATO now poses a direct geopolitical challenge to Russia right on Moscow’s doorstep</span>. <span class="NothingChar">Relations between Russia and its</span> small <span class="NothingChar">Baltic neighbors are testy</span>, to put it mildly. <span class="NothingChar">At the moment, Russia may be too weak to challenge the U.S./NATO security commitment to those countries, but we cannot be certain that will always be true</span>. The endorsement of NATO membership for Croatia and Albania confirms that the alliance has now entered the realm of farce. The military capabilities of those two countries are minuscule. According to the 2009 edition of<span style="font-family: LegacySerif-BookItalic,sans-serif;">The Military Balance</span>, published by the International Institute for Strategic Studies, Croatia’s military budget is a mere $962 million, and its military force consists of 18,600 activ-duty personnel. Albania’s budget is $233million, and its force is 14,295. They will augment Estonia’s $425 million and 5,300 troops, Latvia’s $513million and 5,187 troops, Lithuania’s $500 million and 8,850 troops, and Slovenia’s $756 million and 7,200 troops. By not offering membership to Macedonia, though, NATO will have to do without Skopje’s $163 million and 10,890 troops.<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">5 </span>Collectively, those countries spend less on their militaries in a year than the United States spends in Iraq in two weeks. Such <span class="NothingChar">new allies are not merely useless; they are potentially an embarrassment to the alliance, and possibly a serious danger</span>. <span class="NothingChar">When</span> Vice President Dick <span class="NothingChar">Cheney asserted during a visit to the Balkans in 2006 that the proposed members would help “rejuvenate” NATO and rededicate the alliance “to the basic and fundamental values of freedom and democracy,” he showed how out of touch with reality U.S and NATO policy had becom</span>e.<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">6 </span>Croatia is just a few years removed from the fascistic regime of Franjo Tudjman and continues to have frosty relations with neighboring Serbia. Albania is a close ally of the new, predominantly Albanian state of Kosovo, an entity whose independence both Serbia and Russia (as well as most other countries) do not recognize and vehemently oppose. Albania also is notorious for being under the influence of organized crime. Indeed, the Albanian mafia is legendary throughout Europe, controlling much of the gambling, prostitution, and drug trafficking.<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">7 </span>Efforts to add Ukraine and Georgia to the alliance, a policy that the Bush administration pushed and the Obama administration endorses, would be even worse than the previous rounds of expansion. Ukraine’s relationship with Russia is quite contentious. Georgia’s relationship, of course, is even worse than that, as last summer’s warfare confirmed. Rational Americans should have breathed a sigh of relief that Georgia was not a NATO member at the time the conflict erupted. <span class="NothingChar">Proponents of NATO’s enlargement eastward sometimes act as though the alliance is now merely a political honor society. Their underlying logic is that, because the nations of Eastern Europe have become capitalist democracies, they deserve to be members of the West’s most prominent club. But nearly all the 3 newer members of NATO, which are the most concerned about possible adverse security developments emanating from Russia, consider the alliance to bemore than a political body. They are counting on tangible protection from depredations by their large eastern neighbor. And, equally important, Moscow does not view the current incarnation of NATO as merely political in nature.</span> The Georgian conflict should remind us that NATOis still officially much more than a political club. It remains a military alliance with extensive obligations—especially for the United States. <span class="NothingChar">Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty proclaims that an attack on one member is an attack on all</span>. <span class="NothingChar">That means the United States is obligated to assist in the defense of every member—No matter how small</span>, <span class="NothingChar">how militarily or economically insignificant, or how strategically exposed that member might be. </span>

**Warfighting mentality and expanded command risks nuclear use**

Harald **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Müller and</span></span>** Annette **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Schaper</span></span>** are Peace Research Institute April **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">2k</span></span>** [“The Definitions, Types, Missions, Risks and Options for Control”, Tactical nuclear weapons: options for control, ed William Potter, UNIDIR 119 http://www.unidir.org/bdd/fiche-ouvrage.php?ref_ouvrage=92-9045-136-X-en] 
<span class="NothingChar">TNWs invite the development of a nuclear war-fighting mentality. Since their intended use is not that of the "absolute weapon", their utilization can be more readily contemplated. This, in turn, leads to the identification of missions for which the existing tactical arsenal might not suffice.</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">A feedback dynamic between weapons types, missions, new weapon types and new missions ensues. </span><span class="NothingChar">TNWs hence mislead military planners into dealing with nuclear weapons as another ordinary means of warfare. The more normal the employment of such weapons appears, the lower the mental barriers blocking their use short of situations of national desperation. Because they move with the troops to which they are assigned, TNWs are vulnerable to pre-emptive destruction. In a fast moving military engagement, the enemy may discover this movement and be alarmed that a nuclear strike is impending. It may then decide to attack these units to eliminate the nuclear risk.</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In a fast moving battle, the risk of being overrun is particularly great for troops with short-range weapons that are necessarily deployed close to the front line. In NATO parlance,</span> <span class="NothingChar">"use them or lose them" was the slogan used to describe this scenario. The vulnerability of TNWs, thus, contains an inherent imperative to employ them early in warfare.</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Some have seen in this attribute a particular virtue, since the uncertainty and risk of early use add to their deterrent effect against the starting of war in the first place. TNWs epitomize the prescription of Thomas Schelling "to leave something to chance". </span><span class="NothingChar">Since so much can go wrong, miscalculation and panic on the part of the weapons bearers can mislead them into firing their TNWs even without objective tactical necessity.</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">As such, the enemy would be well advised not to bring these troops into such dangerous situations in the first place and deterrence would obtain. This, however, is an overly risky calculation between enemies at close range, where skirmishes could occur and small-scale transgressions could escalate into broader engagements. The shortest-range TNWs especially are thus a factor of grave instability. In order to evade the risk of detectable movement, weapons may be deployed with their operational forces all the time, and </span><span class="NothingChar">authority to fire them may be pre-delegated to local commanders. By proliferating the authority and technical capability to initiate a nuclear exchange, this arrangement enhances instability and the risk for misperception and miscalculation. </span>

**Accidental launch triggers US-Russo nuclear war**

<span class="NothingChar">Mike </span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Blanchfield</span></span>** staff writer7/4/20**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span>** [Montreal Gazette, “Duck and cover or a world without nukes?” http://www.montrealgazette.com/story_print.html?id=1759991&sponsor=] 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Still, Blair and many others say t</span><span class="NothingChar">he need for the U.S. and Russia to show leadership is even more pressing, to remove not only the ever-present</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cold War </span><span class="NothingChar">possibility of a world-ending nuclear accident, but the </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">21st-century </span><span class="NothingChar">threat of nukes falling into terrorist hands. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Much has been made of the need to press the "reset" button on the strained relations of late between the White House and the Kremlin. Medvedev struck a conciliatory note this week when he called for a new era in relations with Washington, based on a "purely pragmatic" agenda. Thomas </span><span class="NothingChar">Graham, a retired U.S. diplomat</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Clinton-era arms-control ambassador, </span><span class="NothingChar">said Russian and U.S. co-operation on arms control,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> including </span><span class="NothingChar">a new START treaty, would pay dividends </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">in a much broader sense. "</span><span class="NothingChar">For too long</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in this post-Cold War world, </span><span class="NothingChar">the two former</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cold War </span><span class="NothingChar">adversaries have remained in a semi-hostile relationship</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">," Graham said. "</span><span class="NothingChar">There could be a serious threat of broader nuclear-weapon proliferation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Many people are concerned about the Iranian nuclear program. ... This administration, I believe, correctly understands that we cannot effectively deal with either of those issues, and many others as well, without close co-operation with the Russian Federation." Officials from both countries are already hammering out the details of an agreement that would replace the START 1 treaty, which expires Dec. 5. Though the Moscow-Washington relationship is tangled in a web of tension over the U.S. missile-defence-shield plans for Europe, and NATO's eastward expansion, positive signals emerged from the Kremlin yesterday on one front: Medvedev's spokesman said he and Obama would sign a side deal that would allow the U.S. military transit of goods through Russian territory to Afghanistan. The main goal would be a new START framework that would essentially see both sides slashing their nuclear-warhead stockpiles by one-quarter, down to about 1,500 warheads each. Despite the spread of nuclear-weapons arsenals to such countries as China, Pakistan, India and elsewhere, nine out of every 10 nuclear bombs on the planet are under the control of the White House and the Kremlin. Lilia Shevtsova, of the Moscow office of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, suggests that a renewed version of START will not necessarily make the world a safer place. "When you start counting nukes, you start talking disarmament and verification procedure. It's a sign not of mutual trust - it's rather a sign of lack, an absence of mutual trust," Shevtsova said. Charles Ferguson, a senior fellow with the Council on Foreign Relations, says if Russia and the U.S. were to go so far as to cut their arsenals down to 1,000 each, other nuclear countries could begin to compete with them. For Blair, it's well past the time to abandon long-held suspicions and animosities. After walking his Ottawa luncheon crowd through his Paris doomsday vision, Blair piles on more scenarios. </span><span class="NothingChar">If there were an accidental launch</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of weapons </span><span class="NothingChar">that triggered all-out nuclear war between Russia and the U.S., 119 million people in each country would die in the initial exchange. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">That would include 15 million around the Kremlin in Moscow. </span><span class="NothingChar">A city</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> like Chicago or Ottawa </span><span class="NothingChar">would be gone within the hour.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "</span><span class="NothingChar">We've pushed our luck as far as we can</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; now we need a policy. So to put it bluntly, there are two paths that stretch before us: We either bury our weapons or we're buried by them," Blair said.</span>

**Russian system ensures retaliation**

Ron **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Rosenbaum</span></span>** is a graduate of Yale University. He is a writer of many books including The Village Voice 8-31-200**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">7</span></span>** [“The Return of the Doomsday Machine?” http://www.slate.com/id/2191104/pagenum/all/] 
In Strangelove, the doomsday machine was a Soviet system that automatically detonated some 50 cobalt-jacketed hydrogen bombs pre-positioned around the planet if the doomsday system's sensors detected a nuclear attack on Russian soil. Thus, <span class="NothingChar">even an accidental or</span> (as in Strangelove) <span class="NothingChar">an unauthorized U.S. nuclear bomb could set off the doomsday machine bombs, releasing enough deadly cobalt fallout to make the Earth uninhabitable</span> for the human species for 93 years. <span class="NothingChar">No human hand could stop the fully automated apocalypse</span> An extreme fantasy, yes. But <span class="NothingChar">according to a new book called Doomsday Men</span> and several papers on the subject by U.S. analysts, it may not have been merely a fantasy. According to these accounts, the Soviets built and activated a variation of a doomsday machine in the mid-'80s. And <span class="NothingChar">there is no evidence Putin's Russia has deactivated the system.</span> Instead, <span class="NothingChar">something was reactivated in Russia last week.</span> I'm referring to the ominous announcement—given insufficient attention by most U.S. media (the Economist made it the opening of a lead editorial on Putin's Russia)—by Vladimir Putin that Russia has resumed regular "strategic flights" of nuclear bombers. (They may or may not be carrying nuclear bombs, but you can practically hear Putin's smirking tone as he says, "Our [nuclear bomber] pilots have been grounded for too long. They are happy to start a new life.") These twin developments raise a troubling question: What are the United States' and Russia's current nuclear policies with regard to how and when they will respond to a perceived nuclear attack? In most accounts, once the president or Russian premier receives radar warning of an attack, <span class="NothingChar">they have less than 15 minutes to decide whether the warning is valid.</span> The pressure is on to "use it or lose it"—launch our missiles before they can be destroyed in their silos. Pressure that makes the wrong decision more likely. <span class="NothingChar">Pressure that makes accidental nuclear war a real possibility.</span> Once you start to poke into this matter, you discover a disturbing level of uncertainty, which leads me to believe we should be demanding that the United States and Russia define and defend their nuclear postures. Bush and Putin should be compelled to tell us just what "failsafe" provisions are installed on their respective nuclear bombers, missiles, and submarines—what the current provisions against warning malfunctions are and what kinds of controls there are over the ability of lone madman nuclear bombers to bring on the unhappy end of history. As for the former Soviet Union, the possible existence of a version of a doomsday machine is both relevant and disturbing. In the Strangelove film, the Soviet ambassador tells the president and generals in the U.S. war room that the device was designed to deter a surprise attack, the kind of attack that might otherwise prevent retaliation by "decapitating" the Soviet command structure. The <span class="NothingChar">automated system would insure massive world-destroying retaliation even if the entire Soviet leadership were wiped out—or had second thoughts.</span> As a result, some referred to it as the "dead hand" doomsday device. It is Dr. Strangelove himself, the madman U.S. nuclear strategist played by Peter Sellers, who detects the flaw in this plan. After being apprised of the system's existence by the Soviet ambassador, and the likelihood of its being triggered by a U.S. bomber on an unauthorized mission to nuke its Soviet target, Dr. Strangelove exclaims: Yes, but the ... whole point of the doomsday machine ... is lost ... if you keep it a secret! Why didn't you tell the world, eh? In other words, a doomsday machine kept secret is no good for deterrence, only for retaliation by extinction. Did the Soviets actually design a variation on a doomsday device and not tell us about it? And could an accidental or terrorist nuclear attack on Putin's Russia (by Chechens, for instance) trigger an antiquated automated dead-hand system and launch missiles capable of killing tens, maybe hundreds, of millions at unknown targets that might include the United States? But on that day I came upon a startling essay in the London Times Literary Supplement. It was a review (titled "Deadly Devices") of a book recently published in the United Kingdom: Doomsday Men: The Real Dr. Strangelove and the Dream of the Superweapon by nuclear-age historian P.D. Smith of University College London. (It will be out in the United States in December.) The TLS reviewer, Christopher <span class="NothingChar">Coker</span> (who is <span class="NothingChar">on the faculty of the London School of Economics), asserted that the book demonstrates that</span> "only after the Berlin Wall had been breached and ... the Cold War began to thaw did military analysts realize the Russians had actually built a version of <span class="NothingChar">the [doomsday] device</span>. The details of this top-secret Soviet system were first revealed in 1993 by Bruce G. Blair, a former American ICBM launch control officer, now one of the country's foremost experts on Russian arms. Fearing that a sneak attack by American submarine-launched missiles might take Moscow out in 13 minutes, the Soviet leadership had authorized the construction of an automated communication network, reinforced to withstand a nuclear strike. At its heart was a computer system similar to the one in Dr. Strangelove. Its code name was Perimetr. It went fully operational in January 1985. It <span class="NothingChar">is still in place.</span>

**This is the largest existential risk**

<span class="NothingChar">Nick </span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Bostrom</span></span>** <span class="NothingChar">20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">0**2**</span></span> [Professor of Philosophy, Yale University, “Existential Risks,” <span style="color: black;">http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html</span>] <span class="NothingChar">A much greater existential risk emerged with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR. An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences that might have been persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal. There was a real worry</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">among those best acquainted with the information available at the time </span><span class="NothingChar">that a nuclear Armageddon would occur and that it might annihilate our species or permanently destroy human civilization. Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note however that </span><span class="NothingChar">a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy or thwart humankind’s potential permanently.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>

**<span class="tagchar"> Unilateral TNW removal jump-starts US-Russian relations </span>**
Brian G<span class="cite">. </span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Polser</span></span>** Air Force Major, Master's in National Security Affairs from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School September 200**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">4</span></span>** [“Theater Nuclear Weapons in Europe: The Contemporary Debate,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA427697&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf] VP <span class="NothingChar">U.S. theater nuclear weapons in Europe have also long been a source of friction in the NATO-Russia security relationship, and they continue to serve as a roadblock to cooperation.</span><span class="cardChar"> <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Today the NATO-Russia Council serves to enhance consultation, consensus-building, cooperation, joint decision and joint action, yet in this environment, the utility placed by both NATO and Russian in their respective TNW arsenals prevents real cooperation in TNW arms control as well as counterproliferation. </span></span><span class="NothingChar">A unilateral withdrawal of the U.S. TNWs might jump-start arms control discussions if Russia continues to follow a GRIT strategy centered on positive reciprocity. At the very least, removing these weapons from Europe could lead to increased transparency on Russian TNWs, a key element in the current international nonproliferation effort.</span>

**U.S. removals lead to others reciprocating**
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Hans M.</span></span> <span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**Kristensen**</span></span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">is the Director of the Nuclear Information Project at the Federation of American Scientists 200</span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">5</span></span>**<span class="cardChar"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Europe” Natural Resources Defense Council] VP</span></span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S. nuclear weapons in Europe undercut efforts to reduce global nuclear threat </span><span class="NothingChar">Not only are U.S. and European rationales for forward-deploying U.S. nuclear weapons in Europe thin, but the presence of the weapons in Europe could affect the delicate relationship with other nuclear powers. Stationing U.S. nuclear weapons in Europe undercuts efforts to improve relations with Russia and gives the Russian military an excuse to maintain its own non-strategic nuclear weapons.</span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Equally troublesome is the fact that NATO has earmarked nearly a third of the forward deployed weapons in Europe for use by the air forces of non-nuclear NATO countries, a violation of Non-Proliferation Treaty’s (NPT) main objective. Some claim that there is no NPT violation because the weapons remain under U.S. custody until the U.S. president authorizes their use for war, at which time the treaty would no longer be in effect. But all preparation for the use of the weapons takes place now in peacetime. Equipping nonnuclear countries with the means to conduct preparations for nuclear warfare expresses a double standard that conflicts with U.S. and European nuclear nonproliferation objectives to persuade countries such as Iran and North Korea from developing nuclear weapons. What should be done about U.S. nuclear weapons in Europe? To end Cold War nuclear planning in Europe, </span></span><span class="NothingChar">the United States should immediately withdraw the remaining nuclear weapons from Europe.</span><span class="cardChar"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Doing so would complete the withdrawal that began in 1991, </span></span><span class="NothingChar">free up resources in the U.S. Air Force</span><span class="cardChar"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and European air forces for real-world non-nuclear missions, </span></span><span class="NothingChar">and enable NATO to focus on the nonnuclear security priorities that matter.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition, NATO should end the practice of assigning nuclear strike missions to nonnuclear member countries. This should involve the removal of all mechanical and electronic equipment on host nation aircraft intended for the delivery of nuclear weapons, and the denuclearization of facilities on national air bases intended for storage and maintenance of nuclear weapons.</span><span class="NothingChar"> Doing so would end NATO’s nuclear double standard and strengthen the stand of the United States and Europe in persuading other countries from developing nuclear weapons. Finally, the United States and Europe should use the political leverage that would come from these initiatives to engage Russia to drastically reduce their large inventory of nonstrategic nuclear weapons.</span> <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">At the same time, </span></span><span class="NothingChar">NATO should use the removal of nuclear weapons from</span><span class="cardChar"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Greece, Italy, and </span></span><span class="NothingChar">Turkey to invigorate efforts toward a nuclear weapons free zone in the Middle East.</span><span class="cardChar"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Such initiatives would provide real benefits to NATO security.</span></span>


**Plan sets an example, spilling over**
<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Claudine </span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Lamond and</span></span>**<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Paul </span></span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**Ingram**</span></span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, British American Security Information Council, 1/23/20</span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">09</span></span>**<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“Politics around US tactical nuclear weapons in European host states”, BASIC, [[http://www.basicint.org/publications/paul-ingram/2010/politics-around-us-tactical-nuclear-weapons-european-host-states]]] </span></span> <span class="NothingChar">Nuclear burden sharing is far less of a foundation stone for the NATO alliance than it was in the Cold War</span>, and is losing public support. <span class="NothingChar">More than 70% of the population in nuclear weapon states and the states involved in nuclear sharing believe nuclear weapons have a negative effect on international security. 32 The removal of US TNWs from Europe</span> may also find support within defense ministries, as it would also diminish the opportunity cost arising from planned modernization of storage facilities and aircraft. Member states <span class="NothingChar">attitudes towards the issue have all too often been characterized by a fear of moving first, and opening up a Pandora’s box. NATO’s Strategic Concept of 2009/2010 represents an opportunity for NATO to reassess its stance on nuclear sharing and present a clear position to the global community on its nuclear posture</span>. The Strategic Concept of 1999 stated ‘The presence of United States conventional and nuclear forces in Europe remains vital to the security of Europe…//’,<span style="font-size: 7.0pt;">33 </span>yet it is widely acknowledged that <span class="NothingChar">presence of US nuclear weapons in Europe serves only a political role</span>. The review of the Strategic Concept today must question whether this role still has the necessary significance 20 years after the end of the Cold War to justify the financial, political and diplomatic costs, and explore new and more solid foundations on which to base the Alliance.

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Contention Four is Diplomacy</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Scenario One is Iran</span>**</span>

**Sanctions and US action won’t solve Iranian prolif**

Reza **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kahlili</span></span>**, pseudonym for an ex-CIA spy who requires anonymity for safety reasons. "A Time to Betray," book about his double life as a CIA agent in Iran's Revolutionary Guards, 8-27-<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">10</span></span>, [“KAHLILI: Iran goes nuclear,” The Washington Times, http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/27/iran-goes-nuclear/print/]
Russia turned on the switch to Iran's first nuclear power plant on Aug. 21 after repeated delays and more than 15 years of construction. The hard-liners in Iran celebrated it as a victory over "the Great Satan," repeating the famous phrase by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, father of the Islamic revolution. Their message: America can't do a damned thing. The <span class="NothingChar">Iranians have managed to open a second front for their nuclear bomb project. The Bushehr nuclear power plant is now untouchable because any military action</span> against its reactor containing plutonium <span class="NothingChar">would lead to widespread deadly contamination</span> throughout the region. <span class="NothingChar">The reactor, once fully operational, can produce</span> more than 661 pounds of near-weapons-grade plutonium, <span class="NothingChar">enough to make 60 nuclear bombs within the first year or two</span>. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) will be monitoring the operation of the Bushehr nuclear power plant; however, because the <span class="NothingChar">IAEA does not have real-time cameras</span> monitoring the plant, the inspectors will<span class="NothingChar"> review</span> camera tapes at <span class="NothingChar">the site every 90 days</span>. This gives the fanatics ruling Iran <span class="NothingChar">sufficient time to divert the fuel into</span> making <span class="NothingChar">nuclear bombs</span>, using a "quick and dirty" reprocessing approach made public by Oak Ridge National Laboratory researchers in the 1970s. Experts say the process of separating plutonium from spent fuel employs a simple technology - one that is just a bit more advanced than that of producing dairy products or pouring concrete. The mullahs ruling Iran can effectively decide to go nuclear and arm the Revolutionary Guards with nuclear bombs before the world has a chance to stop them. Once they announce such an achievement, the choices for the world leaders to respond will be much more limited than before. The <span class="NothingChar">result of any military confrontation will be</span> much more <span class="NothingChar">horrific</span> - both <span class="NothingChar">for the millions of Iranians</span> who have been paying dearly for three decades trying to free themselves from this evil regime <span class="NothingChar">and for millions in Israel and the rest of the world who will become hostage</span> to the criminals ruling Iran.<span class="NothingChar"> Iran</span> also <span class="NothingChar">has</span> achieved another goal in this chess game of pursuing its nuclear-bomb project. It can <span class="NothingChar">make it clear to the U</span>nited <span class="NothingChar">S</span>tates <span class="NothingChar">and Israel that should they attack any</span> of its other <span class="NothingChar">nuclear facilities</span>, such as the Natanz uranium enrichment plant or Isfahan's nuclear fuel facility, <span class="NothingChar">Iran will remove the spent fuel</span> from the Bushehr power plant <span class="NothingChar">and proceed with making the</span> nuclear <span class="NothingChar">bomb.</span> Iran continues to enrich uranium to the 20 percent level with faster centrifuges at Natanz, and once fully operational, Isfahan's facility could produce <span class="NothingChar">sufficient plutonium for two nuclear weapons a year</span>. In either case, the clerical establishment is now one step closer to checkmating the West and reaching its ultimate goal of becoming a nuclear-armed state. All this while the Revolutionary Guards continue to make significant progress with the country's missile delivery system. At present, Iran is assessed to have the largest deployed ballistic missiles in the Middle East, with approximately 1,000 missiles covering ranges from 90 to 1,200 miles and capable of reaching all of the Middle East, Israel and parts of Europe. Also, the Guards, with the help of North Korea, are working on intercontinental ballistic missiles to cover the world. They are using their space project to disguise their real intention. At the same time, the Guards have successfully expanded their terror network by rearming Hezbollah with tens of thousands of rockets, training Hamas fighters in making rockets, and setting up shop in Venezuela. Many of Iran's Quds forces, consisting of highly experienced assassins and bomb-making squads, are now in Venezuela. They intend to spread all over Latin America and ultimately enter America. It is only a matter of time before their terror networks are armed with dirty bombs capable of reaching their ultimate goal of bringing about the demise of the West. <span class="NothingChar">The West in return has been</span> vacillating for years, <span class="NothingChar">trying its hardest to appease</span> the mullahs. It has turned its back on the Iranian people, who have been subjected to crimes by their rulers, and going against every principle the West claims to stand for. This is while the West's efforts have resulted in nothing but failure, mainly because it refuses to understand the mullahs' philosophy, which is deeply rooted in their belief in Allah and literally taken from the Koran: jihad on infidels, killing them until there are no more sinners on Earth and all are believers of Allah: "I will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve. Therefore, strike off their heads and strike off every fingertip of them. ... This is the punishment for nonbelievers." Koran (8:12-13). This illusion continues to this day, with the West <span class="NothingChar">still thinking it can change</span> the <span class="NothingChar">behavior</span> of the radicals ruling Iran <span class="NothingChar">with sanctions or</span> by <span class="NothingChar">dialogue</span>. Just a few days ago, it was reported in the New York Times that the Obama administration had assured Israel that the threat from Iran was not imminent and therefore there was no need for military action now. Gary <span class="NothingChar">Samore</span>, President <span class="NothingChar">Obama's top adviser</span> on nuclear issues, <span class="NothingChar">thinks there is still time</span> and, based on U.S. intelligence, it would take Iran <span class="NothingChar">roughly a year to make a</span> nuclear <span class="NothingChar">bomb</span>. This assessment is based on <span class="NothingChar">intelligence collected over the past year, as well as reports from international inspectors</span>. 

**Removal key to Turkish credibility**

<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mustafa </span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kibaroglu</span></span>**<span class="reduce2"> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is a professor and vice chair of the inter-relations department at Bilikent University 6-7-20</span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">10</span></span>**<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Reassessing the Role of U.S. Nuclear Weapons in Turkey”, Arms Control Association, </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.armscontrol.org/act/2010_06/Kibaroglu] VP </span></span>
<span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In addition to improvements in bilateral relations with its immediate neighbors, </span></span><span class="NothingChar">Turkey has</span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> become more involved in wider Middle Eastern political affairs than it ever has been since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey in 1923. A key part of this regional involvement is mediation efforts between Israel and Syria. Another element is </span></span><span class="NothingChar">a willingness to take on a similar role in Iran’s dispute with the international community over the nature and scope of Tehran’s nuclear program, which is generally considered by Turkey’s NATO allies to have the potential for weaponization and thus further proliferation in the region</span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Top Turkish political and military officials have suggested on various occasions that </span></span><span class="NothingChar">the most promising way out of the conflict in the longer term would be the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East</span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Against that background, </span></span><span class="NothingChar">the continued insistence of the Turkish security elite on hosting U.S. nuclear weapons has drawn criticism from Turkey’s Middle Eastern neighbors</span><span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>21 <span class="NothingChar">Some of these neighbors, such as Iran and Syria, criticize Turkey’s policy of retaining nuclear weapons because they see the weapons as being directed against them.</span> 22 <span class="reduce2"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Others in the Arab world, such as Egypt, portray these weapons as a symbol of Western imperialism. </span></span><span class="NothingChar">Turkey therefore will have to seriously reconsider its policy on U.S. nuclear weapons.</span>

**Turkish credibility key to prevent Iran proliferation**

Alon **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Ben-Meir</span></span>** is a Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Affairs in New York University and teaches courses on the Middle East and international negations, Spring 200**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">9</span></span>** [“A Nuclear Iran is not an Option: A New Negotiating Strategy” http://www.unc.edu/depts/diplomat/item/2009/0103/comm/benmeir_iran.html] VP
<span class="NothingChar">The presence of a third party acting as mediator between the United States and Iran may prove to be necessary, particularly if this party represents a major Muslim state with the stature of Turkey. Apart from Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan’s recent claims that “[Turkey is] ready to be the mediator” between the United States and Iran</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, due to its recent diplomatic achievements between Israel and Syria, </span><span class="NothingChar">there are many reasons why Turkey may succeed in mediating a peaceful solution to the nuclear impasse. To begin with, Turkey has a vested interest in the success of the negotiations. Many Turkish officials and academics have expressed grave concerns about the growing danger of yet another avoidable and potentially devastating war in the Middle East.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">For the Turks, finding a diplomatic solution is not one of many options but the only sane option to prevent a horrific outcome. Other than being directly affected by regional events, </span><span class="NothingChar">Turkey generally enjoys good relations with all states in the region; it has not been tainted with the war in Iraq; and it is a predominantly Muslim state, Middle Eastern as well as European. Turkey shares the longest border with Iran, and has maintained good neighborly relations with Tehran for centuries, with expanding trade relations. Moreover, Turkey and Iran have collaborated recently on the Kurdish issue, and both have a shared interest in this regard for the emergence of a stable Iraq. </span><span style="font-size: 6.0pt;">Turkey, as a fellow Muslim state, stands a much better chance to convey to Iran Israel’s sentiments to prevent a terrible miscalculation. Because of Turkey’s standing in the region, and as a credible bridge between East and West, it has the potential to succeed where others have failed. Turkey is a close ally and a reliable friend of the United States; it is an important member of NATO; it has worked fervently to maintain the democratic nature of the state; and it has received due praise for its recent diplomatic mediating efforts.</span> <span class="NothingChar">Turkey can better understand the nature of Iran’s threats, specifically in connection with the United States, which has made no secret of its efforts to support Ahmadinejad’s opponents. Turkey may also be in a better position than the EU representatives to bypass Ahmadinejad and reach out directly to Iran’s supreme leader</span> <span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">Ayatollah Khamenei__.__ Khamenei, whose power goes practically unchecked in the Iranian government and institutions, has refused to speak to any American representatives. </span><span class="NothingChar">Turkey plays a strategic role in this sense because it can appeal to Khamenei, who will ultimately be responsible for any course of action the Iranian government decides to make on the nuclear issue. In addition, Turkey may offer an alternative where Iran can be persuaded to enrich uranium on Turkish soil under strict IAEA monitoring. Turkey, in short, can change the dynamics by offering a new venue for Americans and Iranians to meet and by generating a new momentum for serious dialogue. Finally, Turkey can provide Iran with a dignified disengagement plan, because if Iran is to make any concessions it will more likely make them to a fellow Muslim-majority state with which it has long and friendly relations. </span>

**Proliferation spills over, risking nuclear war**

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">**St. Louis Post**</span></span>**-**Dispatch, 200**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">6</span></span>** Philip Dine, “Behind the nuclear curtain, Iran lurks While attention is focused on North Korea, Iran could be more menacing”, 10-20, L/N
<span class="NothingChar">Iran</span> is in a far more volatile and unstable area. Its <span class="NothingChar">development of the bomb would make</span> nuclear proliferation more likely in the Middle East, increasing the <span class="NothingChar">risk that a nuclear weapon might be used in a regional conflict</span> -- or fall into the wrong hands. * Iran has close ties with terrorist groups that are sworn enemies of the United States and is believed to have networks around the world, including on American soil. While most observers believe that North Korea wants a nuclear bomb as a bargaining chip in negotiations with the United States and to prevent a U.S. attack, Iran's leaders have made aggressive statements about a world without the United States and Israel. "Iran is the far more serious threat, because of the negative effect it could have on one of the areas most critical to U.S. national interests," said Joe Cirincioni, an expert in nuclear proliferation. "North Korea is a small, isolated, impoverished nation. We can cut a deal with them to end their program. But in the Middle East, <span class="NothingChar">Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Turkey</span> could not allow Iran to gain the political, diplomatic and military advantage the bomb would give them. They <span class="NothingChar">would have to follow suit</span>," said Cirincioni, senior vice president for national security and international policy at the Center for American Progress. "This is how proliferation happens. It's regional. <span class="NothingChar">There's a nuclear chain reaction</span>. Suddenly you go from a Middle East with one nuclear power, Israel, to a Middle East with three, four or five nuclear nations. . . . <span class="NothingChar">Every dispute becomes a potential nuclear war."</span>

**Perception of proliferation leads to Israeli strike and escalation**

**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Dan </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Murphy</span></span><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">, staff writer 8/12/</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>** [Dan, “Repercussions of an Israeli attack on Iran”, Christian Science Monitor,[[http://www.csmonitor.com/World/Middle-East/2010/0812/Repercussions-of-an-Israeli-attack-on-Iran]]]
<span class="NothingChar">If Israel is likely to decide to attack Iran next summer, as argued in an Atlantic article by Jeffrey Goldberg out this week, the big question is, what happens in the aftermath? </span>A common view among strategists and political analysts is that the US will be held responsible by Iran and much of the Muslim world. Tehran is expected to use the relationships it has carefully cultivated with militants in Iraq and Afghanistan to lash out at US troops, and some say it could provide fighters in Afghanistan with the surface-to-air missiles they crave. "<span class="NothingChar">There are segments of the [Iranian] regime, parts of the military apparatus especially, that will welcome an attack, the heightening of tensions and even confrontation," </span>says Kaveh Ehsani, a political scientist who studies Iran at DePaul University in Chicago. "<span class="NothingChar">Their strategy to react</span> to this is to export conflict – to Afghanistan and Iraq and Lebanon and Gaza… they’ll <span class="NothingChar">raise hell anywhere they can, like in Saudi Arabia</span>." But how big the Iranian reaction would be remains an open question. More US soldiers would die, that much is almost certain. But how many is unclear. And while Iran can bottle up tankers in the Strait of Hormuz and drive up world oil prices, or encourage Hezbollah in southern Lebanon to rain missiles on Israel, analysts are divided on whether the country will take the plunge. US response could be far more threatening than Israeli one Wayne White, former deputy director of the Middle East desk at the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research, says a there's a complex web of calculations being made by both the Israelis and the Iranians, and that Iran may show restraint in the wake of an attack, not wanting to be drawn into a conflict that could threaten the Islamic revolution. "The Iranians might also appreciate that if they up the ante ... there could be more blowback on them," he says, pointing out that a dramatic Iranian attack on US interests, or a precipitous withdrawal from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and UN nuclear monitoring could provoke a US response far more threatening to Iran than the limited strike Israel is capable of. He says some retaliation against both Israeli and US interests is inevitable, "but not in such a visible form, such a dramatic shift that could be immediately placed upon them. They may be cunning about this, knowing that they still have a lot of their [nuclear] program, and not give us a pretext to wade into the situation and take what they have left.... the thing they really fear most is that huge attack from the United States that could, in the end, involve several thousand sorties against a great array of targets." <span class="NothingChar">Why might Israel attack Iran, which insists its nuclear program is for purely peaceful purposes? It's no secret that Israel is deeply skeptical that harsh new sanctions on Iran over its nuclear program will prevent it from progressing. Israel also dismisses Tehran's assurances of peaceful intent out of hand. Israeli leaders like Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu view Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as an anti-Semitic madman who wouldn't be deterred by the risk of a massive nuclear retaliation from Israel, the region's only nuclear power. Often Israeli rhetoric compares a possible Iranian nuclear bomb with the Holocaust. Mr. Ehsani says those sorts of fears are clouding Israeli and American strategic thinking. Both are "obsessed with the nuclear program at the expense of long term, geostrategic thinking about Iran," says Ehsani</span>. "If everything you’re doing in terms of setting up your pieces on the chess board is to stop them from developing their nuclear program, which Iran is pursuing because of concerns about regime survival, then you've got a sort of vicious circle that could backfire." <span class="NothingChar">The actual outcome of an Israel strike is likely to be murky. Israel's successful attacks on an unfinished Syrian nuclear reactor in 2006 and Iraq's Osirak nuclear facility in 1981 (which Iran had tried to and failed to destroy with jets of its own the previous year) are sometimes held up as models. But those were single sights, much closer to Israel and above ground. Iran has 17 known nuclear sites and has placed many of its key facilities deep below ground, so deep that there are doubts that even "bunker buster" bombs could destroy them. But "if there’s one tunnel complex that we’ve discovered, there’s probably seven or eight we haven’t," says White. "They've been preparing for this for a long time."</span> And an attack wouldn't be easy: Long flights over Saudi Arabia, Iraq, or Turkey, limited time over their targets, and a need to hustle home to deal with possible Hezbollah retaliation are just a few of the problems. As Steven Simon, a senior fellow for the Council on Foreign Relations, put it in a briefing on the odds of an Israeli strike on Iran last winter: "Israeli officials are aware that no conceivable Israeli strike could completely eliminate the nuclear threat posed by Iran and that an attack might only intensify longer-term risks as Iran reconstituted covertly, advancing an argument long made by counterterrorism officials that any effort to counter Iran’s nuclear challenge is going to be like 'mowing the lawn.' " Col. (ret.) Pat Lang, a former head of the Middle East desk at the Pentagon's Defense Intelligence Agency, writes on his blog that a 50 percent chance of an Israeli attack is "about right" though he cautions of the consequences for US interests. "Goldberg doesn't think that the US would eventually be drawn into such a war? <span class="NothingChar">That is foolish. The escalation ladder that would be climbed would be likely to include attacks on US forces and a strike on Israel would be probable from some quarter. That would create a political situation in which US entry into the war would be likely</span>." That's an outcome US officials are well aware of, and at least one reason that a unilateral Israeli attack, something the Obama administration opposes as the Bush administration did before it, would strain US ties. But if Netanyahu becomes convinced that sanctions aren't working and that the US is unlikely to lead an attack, Goldberg argues the <span class="NothingChar">Israelis "will state that they believe they have a reasonable chance of delaying the Iranian nuclear program for at least three to five years. They will tell their American colleagues that Israel was left with no choice. They will not be asking for permission</span>." White predicts that the strains on the US relationship with Israel would be manageable since "the US population is well inclined to Israelis and has a dismal view of Iran." "The US doesn’t want to do this at all, and doesn’t want them to light the fuse, either," he says, "because it would be presumed that we gave them the green light. This is an unfortunate belief in the Middle East – it just isn't true. <span class="NothingChar">When the Israelis wish to do something exceedingly dramatic like the [Osirak] raid in 1981, they don’t tell us anything at all." He says he would expect Israel to carry out a strike on Iran if it received intelligence about a specific site or nuclear progress that they viewed as "alarmingly actionable."</span> He adds that there is no strategic hesitation "except for the difficulty of the mission, because <span class="NothingChar">they believe Israel will survive the bulk of the blowback</span>.... In the long run, I’m alarmed. In the short run, I think the Israelis don’t want to do this." At times, the US military establishment has appeared less eager for a confrontation than members of the Obama administration, who have repeatedly said that "all options are on the table" when asked about what the US might do if sanctions don't make a dent in Iran's nuclear program. Admiral Mike Mullen, at the World Leaders Forum at Columbia University in April, said that the "unintended consequences" of an Israeli attack on Iran would "be substantial in an area that's so unstable right now. We don't need more of that." He even appeared ambivalent about which was worse -- a nuclear armed Iran or a war with Iran. "What we need is engaged political and diplomatic leadership from around the world to make sure that that doesn’t – that neither one of those things happens. And I don’t believe – I think Iran having a nuclear weapon would be incredibly destabilizing. I think attacking them would also create the same kind of outcome." 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 16.0pt;">Scenario Two is Syria </span></span>

**<span style="color: black;">Israeli-Syrian Peace talks failing now and Turkish mediation is key </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Alon </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ben-Meir</span></span><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> is a Senior Fellow at the Center for Global Affairs in New York University and teaches courses on the Middle East and international negations</span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, **12/31**</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">/20</span>**<span class="CardsChar">10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> [“ Above The Fray: When Turkey felt betrayed by Israel”, The Jerusalem Post, http://www.jpost.com/Opinion/Columnists/Article.aspx?id=201545] </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">It is </span>**<span class="NothingChar">hard to describe the depth of the Turks’ disappointment</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">, not only because they were left in the dark, but because </span>**<span class="NothingChar">a major breakthrough in the Arab- Israeli peace process of historical magnitude was snatched away.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> On its rise as a regional power, for Turkey to successfully mediating a peace agreement between Israel and Syria after 60 years of conflict would have placed Turkey at the forefront of international prominence, especially because an Israeli-Syrian peace would have had so many other regional and even international implications. From the Turkish perspective, it would have changed the region’s political dynamic and paved the way to peace between Israel and Lebanon and Israel and the Palestinians, and might have also changed the nature of hostile relations between Israel and Iran, thereby averting a potential violent conflict between the two nations which Ankara profoundly fears. From the Turkish point of view, Israel acted as if it is accountable to no one and independent of everyone. </span>**<span class="NothingChar">Turkey feels it has major stake in any conflict in the Middle East and it is loath to merely accept Israeli de-facto policies that run contrary to Turkish national interests. As several Turkish officials lamented, the strategic alliance with Israel is meaningful only when there is full and open cooperation between the parties on any issue that may impact either country’s national strategic interests.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> But when one side or the other acts as if the alliance is only one-sided to be exploited then it becomes at best meaningless but often harmful because of the inherent strategic interdependency and cooperation between the parties CONTRARY TO the view that the Syrian authorities only talk about peace but are not interested in forging one because keeping the tension with Israel allows Syrian President Bashar Assad to keep his grip on power. From what we know, </span>**<span class="NothingChar">Syria is still ready and able to strike a peace agreement with Israel – not because it is weak and despondent, but because Damascus understands that its ultimate welfare and wellbeing depend on improved relations with the West, especially the United States.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> Moreover, continued tension with Israel has no strategic value and it could be utilized tactically and even then only up to a point which may now have run its course as Israel is becoming militarily stronger and more prosperous economically. Damascus understands the precariousness of its position in connection with Iran not only because of Teheran’s growing international isolation – resulting from its nuclear program – but also because of the inherent inconsistency with Damascus’s determination to remain the dominant arbiter over the fate of Lebanon. Notwithstanding Israel’s skepticism about Syria and especially Damascus’s close ties with Iran, it appears that Israel’s obsession with Iran obscured many other options, especially striking a peace agreement with Syria. The Netanyahu government today appears to be even farther away from any of its predecessors from considering a negotiated agreement with Syria that would of necessity require the return of the Golan. It is true that considering Israel’s military prowess, Syria will not be able to regain the Golan by force in the foreseeable future. But this does not suggest that continued Israeli entrenchment on the Golan will over time create an irreversible situation that would compel Syria to simply give up its claim over its territory. Although it is also true that relocating will require billions of dollars and it would be heartbreaking for many Israelis, the passage of time will make it only much more expensive and far more traumatic for the Israelis. </span>**<span class="NothingChar">Any Israeli government that does not see far enough into the future and take the necessary measures to prevent inevitable catastrophic developments, even if the public is not alarmed by the status quo, will have to answer the judgment of time, which will be harsh and unforgiving. Due to the continuing Turkish-Israeli rift that was deepened by the flotilla incident, the time may not be auspicious for Turkey to resume its mediating role, but Ankara still is best positioned to mediate between Syria and Israel</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> – provided there is a government in Israel that can see the light; a government that is not blinded and self-absorbed, one that allows itself, time and again, to miss opportunities in the name of national security – when in fact, by its own shortsightedness is jeopardizing Israel’s long-term national security concerns. </span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**<span style="color: black;">Failure makes war inevitable </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">Aluf </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Benn</span></span><span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">**,** MBA degree from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, and a degree from Tel Aviv University, 5/2/20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10 </span></span>**[ “Tension with Syria can turn into war in an instant”, Haaretz. http://www.haaretz.com/print-edition/news/tension-with-syria-can-turn-into-war-in-an-instant-1.26282] 
**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">In recent months </span>**<span class="NothingChar">everything has appeared quiet on both sides of the Syria-Israel border</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">. The two countries </span>**<span class="NothingChar">exchanged noncommittal messages about their desire for peace, and the status quo seemed as stable as ever</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">. Israel does not want to withdraw from the Golan Heights and Syria does not want to risk war. The international community is concerned about the Palestinians while ignoring the Syrian track. </span>**<span class="NothingChar">But suddenly a crisis has erupted. Syrian and Israeli officials exchanged declarations about war and cranked up the threats. The defense minister warned that if peace with Syria is not achieved, Israel will be embroiled in an unnecessary war. The Syrian foreign minister threatened to strike Israeli cities. His Israeli counterpart threatened to topple Assad's regime.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tried, as usual, to appease both ministers and released a lukewarm response. "</span>**<span class="NothingChar">Israel wants peace without preconditions," he said to appease Ehud Barak, and "Israel will react resolutely and firmly to any threat,"</span>**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;"> to appease Avigdor Lieberman. The Six-Day War erupted after the chief of staff at the time, Yitzhak Rabin, threatened to harm the Syrian regime for supporting Fatah's sabotage acts. A covert direct threat by the MI chief to foreign military attaches apparently lit the spark that led to war. Lieberman's statement sounded like a return of that dangerous escapade. It broke the defense establishment's strict rule not to annoy Assad or humiliate him. The recent murder of a Hamas official in Dubai, which was attributed to Israel, the barrel bombs off Israel's southern beaches, the recent test launching of an Iranian missile and the mutual threats with Syria have undermined the past year's quiet. </span>**<span class="NothingChar">The defense establishment is warning of seasonal tension in the north ahead of the anniversary of the assassination of Hezbollah's Imad Mughniyeh. </span>

**<span style="color: black;">Biological and nuclear weapons will be exchanged </span>**

Anthony **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Cordesman</span></span>**, Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy, 8/15/20**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">07</span></span>** [“Israel and Syria: The Military Balance and Prospects of War”, Center for Strategic and International Studies,http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/070815_cordesman_israel_syria.pdf] 
Various experts have postulated that <span class="NothingChar">Syria could use its chemical and possibly biological weapons against Israel </span>or any other neighbor in range as terror weapons, and sees them as at least a partial deterrent to Israeli strikes with weapons of mass destruction in anything other than an existential conflict. Other experts have suggested that <span class="NothingChar">Syria might use chemical weapons against Israeli army forces as they mobilized to support a surprise attack on the Golan, on Israel's weapons of mass destruction, or in attacks on some other critical Israeli target or facility.</span> There have also been suggestions that Syria might attempt covert attacks or use a terrorist or other proxy. <span class="NothingChar">It is impossible to dismiss such possibilities, and there are no reliable unclassified sources on Syrian doctrine, plans, or intentions for using weapons of mass destruction.</span> Syria does, however, face the fact that any such attack might be seen as the prelude to a Syrian attack on Israeli population centers and that a mass attack producing high lethality against Israel's mobilization centers would probably be viewed as being too unacceptable for Israel to ignore. As little is know about Israeli plans and doctrine as Syrian. <span class="NothingChar">However, given Israel's past actions, the response might well be Israeli massive retaliation with a mix of air and missile strikes designed to destroy much of Syria's continuity of government, military facilities and capabilities, and economy and infrastructure. A major Syrian attack on Israeli civilian targets might well lead to Israeli retaliation against Syrian cities with nuclear weapons.</span> If Israel sought to send a decisive signal as to the cost of strikes on Israel, these might be nuclear ground bursts design to both cripple Syria and prevent its recovery. It also seems likely that if Israel ever came to believe Syria was acquiring highly lethal biological weapons, or nuclear weapons, it would massively preempt and possibly without warning. 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Extinction </span></span>**

<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Richard </span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Ochs</span></span>,** former president of the Aberdeen Proving Ground Superfund Citizens Coalition, member of the Depleted Uranium Task force of the Military Toxics Project, member of the Chemical Weapons Working Group, 6/ 9/20**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">02</span></span>** [ “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
<span class="NothingChar">Of all the weapons of mass destruction</span><span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">,</span></span> <span class="NothingChar">the genetically engineered biological weapons,</span> many without a known cure or vaccine, <span class="NothingChar">are an extreme danger to</span> the continued <span class="NothingChar">survival</span> of life on earth. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. <span class="NothingChar">While a “nuclear winter,” resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control. Biological weapons, on the other hand, can get out of control very easily, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated</span><span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span> There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. Abolition of <span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">chemical weapons</span></span> is less of a priority because, while they <span class="NothingChar">can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment</span>. Like the Holocaust, <span class="NothingChar">once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With</span> nuclear and <span class="NothingChar">biological weapons, the killing will probably never end.</span> Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. Potentially worse than that<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">,</span></span> <span class="NothingChar">bio-engineered agents by the hundreds with no known cure could wreck even greater calamity on the human race than could persistent radiation. AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE</span><span class="Heading4Char"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span></span> Ironically, the Bush administration has just changed the U.S. nuclear doctrine to allow nuclear retaliation against threats upon allies by conventional weapons. The past doctrine allowed such use only as a last resort when our nation’s survival was at stake. Will the new policy also allow easier use of US bioweapons? How slippery is this slope?
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**TNW removal key to mediation** 

Mustafa **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kibaroglu</span></span>**, Professor and Vice Chair, International Relations Dept., Bilkent University, Ankara, Turkey, **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">10</span></span>**, [“Turkey and Shared Responsibilities”, Shared Responsibilities for Nuclear Disarmament: A Global Debate, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, http://www.amacad.org/pdfs/saganInside.pdf]
At the same time, <span class="NothingChar">Turkey has allowed</span> U.S. <span class="NothingChar">nuclear weapons</span> on Turkish soil since 1960, as part of NATO’s policy of extended deterrence. 5 This decision was initially taken at NATO’s Paris summit in 1957. In addition to Jupiter missiles that have a range of 3,000 kilometers and a warhead yield of 1.5 megatons, which attracted much public attention due to the role they played in the resolution of the Cuban crisis in October 1962, beginning in the early 1960s, nuclear weapons under U.S.Air Force custody that could be delivered by F-100, F-104, and F-4 aircraft were also deployed from air bases in Eskisehir, Malatya (Erhac), Ankara (Murted), and Balikesir. 6 On April 14, 1963, the U.S. Polaris submarine USS Sam Houston visited the Turkish port of Izmir in a display of NATO solidarity with Turkey and to demonstrate the alliance’s commitment to extended nuclear deterrence. 7 Believing that Turkey was safe from attack by countries in the Warsaw Pact, <span class="NothingChar">Turkish policy-makers focused </span>their <span class="NothingChar">attention on</span> the <span class="NothingChar">proliferation</span> of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) <span class="NothingChar">in the Middle East. Acquisition of chemical, biological, and</span> especially <span class="NothingChar">nuclear weapons by</span> Turkey’s immediate <span class="NothingChar">neighbors poses a significant threat to</span> the country’s <span class="NothingChar">security and stability</span>. For this reason, during the Cold War, the <span class="NothingChar">Turkish government opposed </span>Soviet <span class="NothingChar">proposals to create a </span>Balkans <span class="NothingChar">nuclear-weapons-free zone</span> (NWFZ), which would have included Turkey. <span class="NothingChar">However</span>, the Turkish government <span class="NothingChar">supported</span> the creation of a nuclear <span class="NothingChar">weapons-free zone in the Middle East</span> (NWFZ/ME), <span class="NothingChar">provided that any agreement </span>establishing this zone <span class="NothingChar">did not</span>, by definition<span class="NothingChar">, include Turkey</span> as part of the Middle East. Turkish <span class="NothingChar">leaders</span>, including President Abdullah Gul, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and Chiefs of the General Staff Generals Hilmi Ozkok, Yasar Buyukanit, and Ilker Basbug, <span class="NothingChar">have repeatedly stated that a lasting solution to</span> WMD <span class="NothingChar">proliferation</span> in the Middle East <span class="NothingChar">will require</span> the creation of <span class="NothingChar">a NWFZ</span>, which should eventually be expanded into a regional WMD-free zone. 8 <span class="NothingChar">Recently Turkey has been seen as part of the Middle East</span> because of its involvement in a number of regional political issues. Not only has Turkey acted as <span class="NothingChar">a mediator between Syria and Israel, but </span>it has <span class="NothingChar">proposed to take</span> on <span class="NothingChar">a similar function concerning </span>the nuclear issue vis-à-vis <span class="NothingChar">Iran, Israel, and the U</span>nited <span class="NothingChar">S</span>tates. <span class="NothingChar">To be consistent with its</span> policy of supporting a <span class="NothingChar">NWFZ</span>/ME, <span class="NothingChar">Turkey will be expected to denuclearize</span> its territory <span class="NothingChar">first</span>. The <span class="NothingChar">Turkish government should</span> therefore <span class="NothingChar">seek the withdrawal of U.S. nuclear weapons from Turkey before other states </span>in the region <span class="NothingChar">request</span> that <span class="NothingChar">it</span> do so. <span class="NothingChar">This decision should not be tied to</span>, for instance, <span class="NothingChar">cuts in the t</span>actical <span class="NothingChar">n</span>uclear <span class="NothingChar">w</span>eapon<span class="NothingChar">s in the Russian arsenal</span>, as suggested in the Briefing Note published by the Center for European Reform. 9 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"> </span>
**Removing TNWs bolters Turkish credibility**

<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mustafa</span></span> **<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Kibaroglu</span></span>** <span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">teaches courses on arms control and disarmament in the Department of International Relations at Bilkent University in Ankara, Turkey and was a Joint Research Fellow at the Harvard University Belfer Center's Project on Managing the Atom/Science, Technology, and Public Policy Program and International Security Program, November/December 200</span></span>**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">7</span></span>**<span class="cardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [A Turkish Nuclear Turnaround, </span><span style="font-size: 8.0pt;">http://www.mustafakibaroglu.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Kibaroglu-Bulletin-USnukesTurkey-NovDev2007.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">] </span></span>
However, the tide has turned since the early 1990s, and Turkey has become more entrenched in Mideast politics. Dramatic events such as the 1991 Persian Gulf War and the collapse of the Soviet Union shifted Turkey’s attention from its northeastern border to its southern border. Turkey started to play a more active role in the Palestinian question, thanks to its Muslim identity and its strategic relations with Israel. And since the overthrow of Saddam Hussein, the situation in Iraq has become the number one issue on Turkey’s foreign policy agenda—primarily due to the uncertainty surrounding the future of northern Iraq, where the local Kurdish administration aspires to an independent state. <span class="NothingChar">Indeed, many analysts now see Turkey as a full-fledged regional player. Some Iranian security elite even go so far as to characterize Turkey as a “nuclear weapon state” due to the presence of U.S. weapons on its soil. This serves as yet another justification of their ambitions to develop nuclear weapons. Sending back U.S. nuclear weapons will strengthen Turkey’s position visà- vis the aspiring nuclear states in the region and will also improve the prospects of a NWZ in the Middle East. This decision would be perfectly compatible with Turkey’s long-standing efforts to stem proliferation. As a significant regional military power and a NATO member, Turkey will also send a message to Israel, Iran, and the Arab states that nuclear weapons are no longer vital for security considerations</span>. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Indeed, U.S. nuclear weapons have not been useful or instrumental in Turkey’s fight against Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) terrorism over the last quartercentury</span><span class="NothingChar">. On the contrary, these weapons have aggravated the animosity of Turkey’s neighbors, such as Syria, Iraq, and Iran, prompting them to increase their support for the PKK. If the family of sovereign nations is lucky enough, it may not be too late to implement a number of sober- minded steps to get rid of existing nuclear weapons, wherever they may be stockpiled or deployed. A Turkish initiative could help lead the way. </span>




=Negative=