[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**India/Pakistan Plan AC**</span>=== 

OBSERVATION ONE IS FRAMEWORK:
V: Morality

Reflective reasoning must be behind all normative statements.
Christine M. Korsgaard—November 1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. The Authority of Reflection. The Sources of Normativity: The Tanner Lectures on Human Values. Cambridge University.

"But the human...or go forward."

Normative claims must be based on practical reason. We must respect the rationality of individuals.
Christine M. Korsgaard—Working Paper as of May 2010. [Professor of Philosophy at Harvard. PhD in Philosophy From Harvard]. Valuing Our Humanity.

"This question brings...to have it?"

Respecting the inviolability of persons is the only way to rationally value human dignity.

Frances Myrna Kamm—2008. [Lucius Littauer Professor of Philosophy and Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and Professor of Philosophy at Harvard University.] Intricate Ethics. Oxford Ethics Series. 29

"The fact that...as an individual."

S: Treating people as ends in themselves.

OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The Republic of India and The Islamic Republic of Pakistan will immediately begin total nuclear disarmament

ADVANTAGE ONE IS INNOCENTS:

The nuclear postures of India and Pakistan rely exclusively on deterrence targeting one another’s population centers

Ali Ahmed—June 2009. [Security Analyst, New Delhi]. Nuclear Trajectory in South Asia. Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies #2885.

"In South Asia...restriction on India."

A) Deterrence holds people hostage. Hostage holding is immoral.
Steven P. Lee—April 1985. [Teaches Philosophy at Hobart and William Smith Colleges]. The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences. Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence, University of Chicago Press, 594-566.

"What is morally...kind of case."

B) The intention to use nuclear weapons is unacceptable.
Daniel M. Farrell—1992. [Professor of Philosophy at Ohio State University. PhD, Rockefeller University. MA, University of Chicago]. Immoral Intentions. Ethics, 102.

"What is also...about to do."

ADVANTAGE TWO IS NUCLEAR WAR:

A) Accidental Launch is likely.
Paul K. Kerr and Mary Beth Nikitin—February 2010 [Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service] “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. Congress Research Service

"In addition to...strike from India."

B) PAKISTAN FIRST STRIKE
Manpreet Sethi—December 2009. [Fellow of International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies. Head of the Nuclear Security project PhD, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Research faculty of the Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses, New Delhi]. “Nuclear Deterrence in Second Tier Nuclear Weapon States: A Case Study of India” Center of Humaties Science New Dehli. 25. CSH-Dehli.

"Perceived by many...avenge past wrongs."

C) Nuclear strike will escalate and kill billions.
V.R. Raghavan—Winter 2001. [Fmr. Director General of Military Operations of India. Current Director at The Policy Group, New Delhi. Visiting Fellow at The Center For International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University]. Limited War and Nuclear Escalation in South Asia. The Nonproliferation Review.

"As noted earlier...to the aggressor."

Even a limited exchange would kill over a billion people.
Royal Society of Medecine—October 2007. “Doctors Warn Of Climate Havoc Resulting In Global Disease Epidemics And Famine.”

"Even a limited...a global scale."

ADVANTAGE THREE IS PAKISTANI COLLAPSE:

The recent flood disaster in Pakistan has pushed the country to the brink of collapse.
Saeed Shah and Johnathan S. Landay—13 August 2010. [Staff Writers]. Pakistan Flood Disaster May Destabilize Nation. Seattle Times.

"the humanitarian and...with Al-Quada."

Pakistani collapse would put nuclear weapons in the hands of terrorists. At the very least, collapse of a nuclear armed Pakistan will draw in U.S. and coalition troops.
J.N. Mattis—25 November 2008. [General, USMC. Commander, U.S. Joint Forces Command]. The 2008 Joint Operating Environment: Challenges and Implications for the Future Joint Force.

"in terms of...might be used."

Nuclear terrorism threatens the survival os civilization.
Yonah Alexander—August 2003. [Professor of international studies and director of the Institute for Studies in International Terrorism at the State University of New York. Senior research staff member at the Georgetown University Center for Strategic and International Studies.] “Terrorism Myths and Realities” Washtingtion times.

"Last week's brutal...global security concerns."

==Negative== 

===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Security Dilemma NC**</span>=== 

Nuclear disarmament creates a security dilemma that fosters violence and warfare. Eliminating nuclear weapons does not eliminate anxiety, mis-trust, and competition between states. When a state declares that they will abandon their nuclear arsenal there is no reason for any other nation to believe them. The uncertainty of a nuclear free world is disastrous for global security.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"Some disarmament advocates...and years ahead."


In a world of global zero, nations will have no way to ensure that other countries have actually abandoned nuclear weapons. The risk that even onenuclear weapon goes undetected is a massive danger. Fear and insecurity is inevitable.
Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20.

"But let us...for disarmament research."

The lack of verification and constant fear of nuclear weapons capability by other nations causes pre-emptive and preventative war.
Charles W. Kegley, Jr. and Gregory A. Raymond—May 2003. Preemptive war: a prelude to global peril? National Affairs. Society for the Advancement of Education.

"Fear is a great...precede Bush's rational."

preventative wars destroy health, human rights, the environment, and cause domestic violence.

Barry Levy and Victor Sidel—2007. [Adjunct Professor of Community Health at Tufts University School of Medecine. Professor of Social Medicine at the Albert Einstein Medical College]. War and Public Health. Edition 2

"War accounts for..of our civilization."


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

PARADIGM SHIFT 1AC

Observation 1: is the interpretation

aff burden: to defend public health methodology
neg burden: to defend criminal justice methodology

First, subject of resolution is illegal drug abuse- policy problem

Second, "to be treated as" means to adopt a new methodology

(New Oxford English Dictionary)

Third, "matter of" means reclassification

Fourth, "treated as a matter of" means to treat according to distinct methodology

v: morality

vc: minimizing illegal drug abuse

Mary Kate McNamara, Emily Schirack, Dana Sherry & Amy Vereecke "Inequality and Drug abuse" Neuroanthropology, hhtp://neuroanthropology.net/2008/05/06/inequality-and-drug-use//
//"By being poor....and much more."//

//Contention 1: treating drug abuse as a matter of criminal justice increases abuse.//

//Criminal justice methadologies focus on assigning moral blame.//
//James F. Mosher and Karen L. Yanagisako. "Public Health, Not Social Warfare: A Public Health Approach to Illegal Drug Policy." Journal of Public Health Policy, Vol. 12, No. 3 (Autumn,1991), pp. 279-280//
//"There are profound...the policy proponents (3,5).4"//

//Subpoint A: Criminal justice blocks effective treatment//

//Jennifer Ahern, Jennifer Stuber, and Sandro Galea. "Stigma, discrimination, and the health of illicit drug users."// Drug and Alcohol Dependence// 88 (2007) 188-196, 188-189.
""Stigmatization may also....of care received."

National Association for Public Health Policy. "A Public Health Approach to Mitigating the Negative Consequences of Illicit Drug Abuse." 280 Journal of Public Health Policy. Vol, 20, NO. 3, p. 4-5.
"4. Limited Drug-Abuse....aforementioned reatmenta pproaches."

Subpoint B: Criminal justice methodologies mask the role of structural barriers

Jeffrey Reiman. "A Radical Perspective on Crime." __Deviance: A Symbolic Interactionist Approach,__ ed Nancy J. Herman. Lanham: rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc. (1995), p. 100-101.
"This is the powerful...criminality or injustice."

Contention 2: treating drug abuse as a matter of public health decreases abuse.

Christian Munthe - 2008. [Department of Philosophy, Go teborg University, Sweden]. The Goals of Public Health: An Integrated, Multidimensional Model. Public Health Ethics, Vol. 1, No. 1, pp. 39-52. JS.
"Several of these tensions....at a population level."

Eva Betram, Morris Blachman, Kenneth Sharpe, Peter Andreas. __Drug War Politics: The Price of Denial__. Los Angeles: University of California Press (1996), p. 198
"under a public-health paradigm...deserve closer attention."

Public health methodologies better solve for the structural determinants of drug abuse.
Mosher and Yanagisako. "Public Health, not Social Warfare: A Public Health Approach to Illegal Drug Policy." Journal of Public Health Policy, Vol. 12, No. 3 (Autumn, 1991). pp. 303-305
"The differing levels of drug environments....strong curriculum designs."

Eva Betram, Morris Blachman, Kenneth Sharpe, Peter Andreas. __Drug War Politics: The Price of Denial__. Los Angeles: University of California Press (1996), p. 199
"In a public-health paradigm....towards drug problems"


NEEDLES 1AC
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-V: Morality]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">V: Morality</span>**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection.The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm. Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity. Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810. "We must not...to save many."]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Citizens surrender rights to government in exchange for protection.<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The state has an obligation to protect citizens from arbitrary harm. Also, maximizing all lives is the only way to affirm equal and unconditional human dignity. Kantian Consequentialism. David Cummiskey. [Associate Philosophy Professor at Bates College]. Ethics, Vol. 100, No. 3. 1990.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>. "We must not...to save many."</span></span>**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-S: Minimizing suffering]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">S: Minimizing suffering</span>**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS: In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C. David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1. "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention." The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase. Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20. Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">OBSERVATION ONE IS HARMS: In the status quo paradigm of criminalization, injection drug users are cut off from clean and legal needles and injection equipment. The re-use and multiperson use of syringes is a major cause of HIV/AIDS and a major contributor to Hepatitis B, and Hepatitis C. David Vlahov and Benjamin Junge—June 1998. [Vlahov s a Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, principal Investigator of the AIDS Linked to Intravenous Experiences (ALIVE) study, and Principal Investigator of the Evaluation of the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program. Junge is Senior Research Coordinator with the Department of Epidemiology at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health and the Evaluation Director for the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program]. The Role of Needle Exchange Programs in HIV Prevention. Public Health Reports. Vol 113, Supplement 1. "injecting drug users...in HIV prevention." The CDC reports that in 2008, over 4,000 injection drug users were diagnosed with HIV and nearly 6,000 were diagnosed with AIDS. Since the beginning of the AIDS epidemic, almost 300,000 injection drug users in the United States have been diagnosed with AIDS and over 100,000 have been killed. Since 2005, the CDC estimates that approximately 3,000 HIV/AIDS victims died as a result of unsafe injection drug practices. The CDC presented these findings in data-tables, but I have methodology for their studies available. Left unchecked, death rates will only increase. Centers For Disease Control and Prevention—June 2009. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. HIV Surveillance Report. Vol. 20. Hepatitis C, which is spread almost exclusively by injection drug use, kills nearly 10,000 Americans a year. Recent studies predict that death rates are poised to skyrocket.</span>**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country and legalize the possession of drug paraphernalia in and around exchange centers. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify. Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation. "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">OBSERVATION TWO IS THE PLAN: The United States Federal Government will provide federal funding for needle and syringe exchange programs throughout the country and legalize the possession of drug paraphernalia in and around exchange centers. Needle exchange facilities will distribute sterile needles and injection equipment to injection drug users in exchange for used and dirty needles. Needles will be exchanged in a one-to-one ratio. Implementation is through normal means. I reserve the right to clarify. Needle exchange programs and harm reduction policies are in direct conflict with criminal justice approaches to drugs. Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation. "The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span>**</span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY: Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies. Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva. "The above findings...has been fulfilled." And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above]. "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled." Also, Syringe exchange programs link at-risk drug users with public health services, decrease drug use, and are cost effective. The research is rock solid on this question. Center For Disease Control—December 2005. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. Syringe Exchange Programs. "SEP's have been...infected with HIV." Moreover, Needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. Studies only examine the effect of needle exchanges on IDU’s but the decrease in dirty needles on the streets prevent HIV acquisition amongst those accidentally infected by needles. Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?, http:www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis. "Needle exchange programs...accidental needle sticks." Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem. Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12. "Reflecting on this...of our communities." And, once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed. Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23. "Lives are supported...qualifies for recognition."]]<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">OBSERVATION THREE IS SOLVENCY: Needle exchanges are extremely effective at reducing the incidence of HIV/AIDS. The evidence on this question could not be stronger. Statistical analysis and case studies overwhelmingly support the efficacy of Needle Exchange programs. Prefer these meta-analysis and literature review to isolated negative studies. Alex Wodak and Annie Cooney—2004. [MD. St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne. Director of the Alcohol and Drug Service, St. Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst. President of the Australian Drug Law Reform Foundation and the President of the International Harm Reduction Association]. Effectiveness of Sterile Needle and Syringe Programming in Reducing HIV/AIDS Among Injection Drug Users. World Health Organization. United Nations. Geneva. "The above findings...has been fulfilled." And, put away your analytic turns. Hypothesized negative consequences are not backed by the evidence. Meta-analysis of multiple studies prove that negative effects don’t occur. Wodak and Cooney [Cited Above]. "Studies have searched...has been fulfilled." Also, Syringe exchange programs link at-risk drug users with public health services, decrease drug use, and are cost effective. The research is rock solid on this question. Center For Disease Control—December 2005. [United States Federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services. Works to Protect Public Health and Safety. The CDC is the most reputable, respected, and relevant public health organization in the world. The CDC or its predecessors have played massive roles in eradicating smallpox, polio and other major diseases]. Syringe Exchange Programs. "SEP's have been...infected with HIV." Moreover, Needle exchange programs have benefits beyond what has been measured by any scientific study thus far. Studies only examine the effect of needle exchanges on IDU’s but the decrease in dirty needles on the streets prevent HIV acquisition amongst those accidentally infected by needles. Alan Franciscus Editor-in-Chief, HCV Advocate, Needle Exchange - A Matter of Public Health So why is the government playing politics with this ticking time bomb?, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hcvadvocate.org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html|http://www.hcvadvocate .org/hepatitis/hepC/needle_exchange.html]]</span>, Originally in the April/June 2003 issue of Hepatitis. "Needle exchange programs...accidental needle sticks." Criminalization of disease problems in injecting drug users functionally labels and treats them as non-persons. Medicalization is the only way to solve the problem. Kyle D. Stevens—13 June 2000. [MD. University of British Columbia]. Stemming needless deaths: "medicalizing" the problem of injection drug use. Canadian Medical Association Journal, Vol. 162, No. 12. "Reflecting on this...of our communities." And, once a person is excluded from the frame of consideration, they can be perpetually destroyed. Butler, Judith. “Violence, Mourning, Politics” Studies in Gender & Sexuality 4.1 (2003), 20 – 23. "Lives are supported...qualifies for recognition."</span>**</span>== 


==Negative== 
Rule of Law NC


<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">[1]</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;"> Darryl Brown. 1997. [Professor, Washington & Lee University School of Law. “Jury Nullification Within the Rule of Law.” 81 Minn. L. Rev. 1149.]</span>
"The rule of law....prevail in political struggle."

Drug Courts NC

Drug courts use the criminal justice system.
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Celinda Franco, Specialist in Crime Policy, Congressional Research Service, October 12th, 2010, Drug Courts: Background, Effectiveness, and Policy Issues for Congress,<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41448.pdf]]</span></span>


"State drug courts...with roots in the community."

Drug courts decrease drug use amongst the arrested, reduce crime rates as a result of rehabilitation.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">C. West Huddleston, III Douglas B. Marlowe, J.D., Ph.D. Rachel Casebolt</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Painting the Current Picture: A National Report Card on Drug Courts and Other Problem-Solving Court Programs in the United States,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> May 2008, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov/BJA/pdf/12902_PCP_fnl.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In February of...time of arrest."</span>

Drug courts decrease use, cost effective.

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">“Looking at a Decade of Drug Courts” 1999 The Office of Justice Programs Drug Court Clearinghouse and Technical Assistance Project (DCCTAP) at American University, sponsored by the Drug Courts Program Office of the Office of Justice Programs, U.S. Department of Justice, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www1.spa.american.edu/justice/documents/2049.pdf]]</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">"Most criminal justice professionals...well over 90 percent negative."</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,Times,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> "The average cost for...because of their program participation."</span>

Cartel DA-

Mexican Cartels dominate US drug market.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colleen W. Cook (Analyst in Latin American Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division) Congressional Research Service Report for Congress. Mexico’s Drug Cartels. October 16, 2007. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL34215.pdf]]</span></span>
"Mexico, a major drug producing....Mexican groups has expanded."

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Going soft on drugs increases demand.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Action News, published by Act Missouri. Volume 3, Number 1. President: Linda Tooley. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.actmissouri.org/PDF%20Files/potissue.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "Long term protection advocate...National Household Survey on Drug Abuse."</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Increase in drug use increases cartel income.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 6pt;">4</span> <span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Reches. “Decriminalization is not the answer.” The Oklahoma Daily. April 08, 2010. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://oudaily.com/news/2010/apr/08/column-decriminalization-not-solution/]]</span></span>
"The worst part of decriminalization..higher revenues for gangs and drug cartels."

Cutting cartel income is key to defeating them.
Elyse Foley. "Drug Cartels Carry Millions Over Border, Despite Increased Enforcement" The Washington Independent, 8/26/10.
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://washingtonindependent.com/95821/drug-cartels-carry-millions-over-border-despite-increased-enforcement]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> "Stemming the flow of cash...can be knocked off."</span>

Cartels are involved in a deadly drug war that has killed thousands.
The Associated Press. "Drug war's death toll in Mexico: 28,000 killed since 2006" August 3, 2010.<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.cleveland.com/world/index.ssf/2010/08/drug_wars_death_toll_in_mexico.html]]</span>
"More than 28,000 people....were involved in the drug trade."

<span style="font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">The violence is so bad that Mexico is on the brink of collapse.</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> <span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">Robert C. Bonner “The New Cocaine Cowboys.” Foreign Affairs, August 2010</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">. <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-color: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat; font-size: 8pt; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/66472/robert-c-bonner/the-new-cocaine-cowboys]]</span></span></span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;">"The stakes in Mexico are high....Central and South America."</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;"> Punishment NC-</span>

Drug users victimize the community.
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;">Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], "Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement." Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307.</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;"> "We tend by default....free to do as he wishes."</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Ought to be held accountable.</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Steven P. Garvey [Professor of Law, Cornell Law School], "Restorative Justice, Punishment, Atonement." Utah Law Review No. 1, 303-317, 306-307.</span>
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> "We tend by default....free to do as he wishes."</span>

<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 16px;">"So how can that wrong...actually ends up requiring it."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Focus on public health shifts us away from punishment. </span>

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**[[#November-December-Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.]]** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">Steve Rolles, Danny Kushlick, Mike Jay—February 2006. [Rolles is The Transform Drug Policy Foundation Information Officer. Kushlick is The Director of The Transform Drug Policy Foundation and is also a member of the executive council of the International Harm Reduction Association, and is a co-opted member of the Advisory Council of the British Society of Criminology]. After The War on Drugs: Options For Control. Transform Drug Policy Foundation.</span> </span>== 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#November-December-"The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."]] <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">"The evolution of...sterile injecting equipment."</span> </span>== 




=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]