=﻿Plan Text= 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Thus the plan:</span>**</span></span>

**The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military presence in South Korea.**
==1AC -== 



=**Inherency**= 

**Troops currently in South Korea do absolutely nothing to help the United States, past withdrawals prove they are non-essential**
**Bandow, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (Fall 2005, Doug, National Interest, “Seoul Searching,” vol. 81, EBSCO, JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Bush__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Administration </span>__also seems … other units in the South.__
=Korean Conflict= 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Succession politics make DPRK aggression inevitable and the new regime will be as bad as if not worse than the last </span>**
**NYT 9/28** (MARTIN FACKLER and MARK McDONALD, 9/28/10, "North Koreans Bolster Power of Ruler’s Kin", http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/29/world/asia/29korea.html?_r=1?pagewanted=print?pagewanted=print&pagewanted=print)

__The elevation of the completely … makes them even more unpredictable.”__

**Independently the bad economy ensures aggression to regain public support**
**Reuters, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (3/17/10, Jon Herskovitz, “North Korea may turn more menacing but options limited,” </span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE62G12T20100317</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ANOTHER NUCLEAR TEST? </span>__North Korea, …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">said in a report this week. </span>

**We will isolate a number of impacts:**
**First is Bio-Weapons:**
**U.S. presence creates the perception of conventional weaknesses and forces North Korea to resort to CBW use**
**ICG, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,” </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 5.5pt;">This report examines North Korea’s … </span>**__unauthorised WMD attacks or incidents.__**

**North Korean bioweapon use specifically … – greater risk that nuclear weapons**
**Levy, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack … </span>__can be developed within days.__

**Impact is extinction**
**Ochs 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html] </span>

__Of all the weapons of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the highest of all crimes. </span>

**Second is Draw-in:**
**Withdrawal is necessary to prevent U.S. entanglement in Korean conflicts –**
**Bandow, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (5/24/10, Doug, “Avoiding Pyongyang,” </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23432</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">After an investigation of nearly … </span>__to the South Korean people__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Causes an attack on the US**
**<span style="color: black;">Layne, 06 – </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">professor of government at Texas A & M University (Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present, p. 169) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Rather than being instruments of … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">conflicts by its alliance commitments. </span>

**The impact is global thermonuclear exchange resulting in extinction**
**Chol 2002** - Director Center for Korean American Peace’ (Chol,10-24, http://nautilus.org/fora/security/0212A_Chol.html)

__Any military strike initiated against …__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">to a second-class nuclear power.</span>

=China Relations= 
**US-Presence in South Korea is destroying US-Chinese relations and has become a means to assert power against China in the region risking a return to Cold-War confrontation and causing China to support the DPRK.**
<span style="margin: 0in 3.75pt 3.75pt 0in;">**The National 9/5**-Arab newspaper (5/9/10, “A ‘new Cold War’ in the Yellow Sea”, http://www.thenational.ae/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20100906/FOREIGN/709059912/1140)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 3.75pt 3.75pt 0in;">__<span style="color: #333333;">“This is the beginning … tensions from escalating</span>__</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;">,” he said. </span>

**Status quo military presence is geared towards Chinese containment --- this strategy facilitates hostility and ensures Asian warfare and a Sino Taiwan conflict**
**Klare 06,** professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, [Michael, “**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">Containing China: The US's real objective”, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/HD20Ad01.html]</span>**

__Accompanying__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">all </span>__these__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">diplomatic </span>__initiatives … no victors from such a conflagration.__

**<span style="color: black;">Korea is key – U.S. presence there and continued Chinese intransigence independently risks superpower conflict </span>****and miscalc**
**Emmott, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Try this quiz. You lead a … </span>__it could really be war.__

**//Any// US-China conflict will go nuclear**
<span class="cite">Kolko, 06 </span>(Gabriel, Historian of modern warfare, “The Age of War: The United States Confronts the World”, pg. 102)

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">It is neither possible nor … </span>__**__<span style="color: black;">, though not inevitable</span>__**__<span style="color: black;">, is indispensable</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Warming ensures extinction**
**Tickell ‘8** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Gaurdian, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, 8-11, http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">We need to get prepared … us towards</span> __a__ <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">similar </span>__hothouse Earth__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

=Leadership= 
**China will inevitably grow in power – the only danger is if the US decides to contain it**
**Ateba, 02** – PhD candidate at Peking University’s school of International Studies (Bertrand, “Is the rise of China a security threat?” http://www.polis.sciencespobordeaux.fr/vol10ns/ateba.pdf)

<span class="Underline">By many standards, China is … </span><span style="font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">that its growing power entitles it. </span>

**The status quo focus on maintaining military presence and encroaching into China’s sphere of influence leads to nuclear conflagration**
Eland 05- <span style="font-weight: normal;">Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, Former Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (Ivan, 4/11/05, “Coexisting with a Rising China,” http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=1494)</span>
Although China is an autocratic … <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10.5pt;">war or even a nuclear conflagration. </span>


**Motivating Beijing to take a greater regional role via withdrawal ensures its peaceful rise**
**Bandow, 09** – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So Washington should exhibit humility … </span>__other__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">’s economic and geopolitical ambitions. </span>

Chinese regional leadership prevents global economic collapse and nuclear conflict
**Buzan and Foot 2004** – Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics and Political Science AND Professor of International Relations at St. Anthony College (Barry and Rosemary, Does China Matter? A Reassessment: Essays in Memory of Gerald Segal, ed. by B. Buzan and R. Foot, Questia, p. 145-147)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The underlying argument in this … </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Gerry's concern to promote constrainment. </span>

Economic collapse leads to global instability and nuclear war.
<span class="Heading2Char">Mead, 09</span> – Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger”, 2/4, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So far, such half-hearted … </span>__may still have to fight.__

Bringing China to the table through troop withdrawal is key to East Asian stability and denuclearizing North Korea Bandow 10
[Doug Bandow, senior fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author of Foreign Follies: America's New Global Empire, “Engaging China to Maintain Peace in East Asia” 5/25/10, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11845]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How to maintain the peace … Japan would also be warranted. </span>

**//Only//** **China can effectively influence North Korea, US efforts will continue to fail**
**Tisdale, 5/24** - an <span style="color: black;">assistant editor of the Guardian</span> and a foreign affairs columnist (5/24/10, Simon, The Guardian, " China faces touch choices over Korea ", <span style="color: black;">http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cifamerica/2010/may/24/china-faces-tough-choices-korea</span>)

<span class="Underline">The unpalatable truth is Washington … that China send that signal." </span>

**//Any// North Korean aggression or nuclear use goes nuclear and guarantees extinction**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND ** Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” </span><span style="color: black;">http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly … consideration from the international community. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Contention 1 is US Military Gender Hierarchy </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Current military hierarchy represents the gun as the penis – this allows solders to maintain a gendered hierarchy </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Burns 03** (Richard Allen, Professor of Anthology and Folklore at Arkansas State University, “"This is my Rifle, This is my Gun...": Gunlore in the Military” //New Directions in Folklore// Issue 7 </span>[[http://www.temple.edu/english/isllc/newfolk/military/rifle.html|__http://www.temple.edu/english/isllc/newfolk/military/rifle.html__]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The U.S. military currently provides and supports the use of placing condoms around gun barrels </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Associate Publisher 10** (“Condom” </span>[[http://www.associatepublisher.com/e/c/co/condom.htm|__http://www.associatepublisher.com/e/c/co/condom.htm__]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> 10/7/10)</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Solders put condoms over guns to keep the dirt out. However they have a darker more sinister meaning. The use of condoms over guns actively enforce the phallic nature of the gun reinforcing maleness and creating a weapons of destruction</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">Burns 03 (Richard Allen, Professor of Anthology and Folklore at Arkansas State University, “"This is my Rifle, This is my Gun...": Gunlore in the </span>[[#1text]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">” //New Directions in Folklore// Issue 7 </span>[[http://www.temple.edu/english/isllc/newfolk/military/rifle.html|__http://www.temple.edu/english/isllc/newfolk/military/rifle.html__]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The gender relations of the US military is the root cause of the patriarchal system </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Barrett 96** (Frank J., Associate Professor of Systems Management at the Naval Postgraduate School, PhD in Organizational Behavior //Gender, Work, & Organization//, “The Organizational Construction of Hegemonic Masculinity: The Case of the US Navy” Volume 3 Number 3 July 1996)</span>


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia;">Plan disrupts status quo frameworks and is the first step towards resisting the structure of domination. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Peterson 92</span>**<span style="color: black;"> [V. Spike Peterson, “Gendered States: Feminist (re)visions of International Relations Theory”, 1992, [[http://www.questia.com/read/98189720?title=Gendered%20States%3a%20Feminist%20%28Re%29Visions%20of%20International%20Relations%20Theory|__http://www.questia.com/read/98189720?title=Gendered%20States%3a%20Feminist%20%28Re%29Visions%20of%20International%20Relations%20Theory#__]], ]</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Attempts to rectify ...... other social hierarchies.</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Privileging masculinity is at the root of all impacts - solving patriarchy is a prerequisite to genuine peace. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Tickner 92** [J. AnJ. Ann, Professor of International Relations at University of Southern California, "Gender in International Relations: Feminist Perspectives on Achieving Global Security," page 128, ]</span>
﻿

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">﻿**Contention 2 is East Asian Sex Trade****:** </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">The image of the gun as a penis is reinforced by the condom and facilitates the east asian sex market </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">**American Spectator 07** (Shawn Macomber, “Sex Acts” </span>[[http://spectator.org/archives/2007/03/13/sex-acts|__http://spectator.org/archives/2007/03/13/sex-acts__]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">These women are victims of abuse and become trapped. Dujisin 9</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: Georgia;">(Zoltán Dujisin, Political Science graduate and Master’s degree in Nationalism Studies, 7/7/09, “Prostitution Thrives with U.S. Military Presence”, </span>[[http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556|__http://ipsnews.net/news.asp?idnews=47556__]]<span style="font-family: Georgia;">, )</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">"Even in those cases ..... Asian countries. (END)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">They are then socially isolated. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Song and Moon 98**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">(Young I. Song, Ph.D., professor of sociology and social services, Ailee Moon, Ph.D., professor in department of social welfare at UCLA, 1998, “Korean American Women: From Tradition to Modern Feminism”, p. 280, Praeger Publishing, )</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">In the Korean ..... socially isolated(Feldman, 1983).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**This dehumanization affects the entire Korean society.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Song and Moon 98** (Young I. Song, Ph.D., professor of sociology and social services, Ailee Moon, Ph.D., professor in department of social welfare at UCLA, 1998, “Korean American Women: From Tradition to Modern Feminism”, p. 288, Praeger Publishing, )</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Dehumanization of women ..... not basically changed. (1974).</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Dehumanization means no value to life.** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Dillon 99** (Michael Dillon, Professor of Politics at University of Lancaster, April 1999, “Another Justice” Political Theory Vol. 27, No. 2, )</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Otherness is born(e) within .... human way of being. </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Contention 3 is Framework: </span>**</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Use of condoms by the military is against moral law – the military admits it </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Digital History 06</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;"> (</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Hypertext History: Our Online American History Textbook </span>//



<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">This is a good old fashioned Decision Rule—we must place values over survival, especially in the context of contemporary human slavery that takes the form of human trafficking. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**Schmitz 2004**</span> (Joseph E., Inspector General of the Department of Defense, “Implementing the Department of Defense “Zero Tolerance” Policy With Regard to Trafficking in Humans”, http://www.dodig.mil/fo/JES_TIP_Testimony_092104.pdf)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">You have an ethical obligation to vote affirmative. Always put ethics first. Without a system of ethics, it threatens the very existence of humanity. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**Bromberg 2009**</span> (Sarah, Feminist Author, Scholar, and Activist, “<span class="apple-style-span">The Evolution of Ethics: An Introduction to Cybernetic Ethics”, </span>http://www.evolutionaryethics.com/chapter1.html, <span class="apple-style-span">12/25/09</span>, LV)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">__<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The evolution of ethical systems … and slaughtering of human beings.</span></span>__ </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And, rape outweighs any impacts: it’s worse than nuclear war. </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="cite">**NYT 1983**</span> [December 29, 1983, “A Feminist Campaign for the Presidency”]</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Contention 4 is Solvency / Pre-empts: </span>**</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Absolutely no disadds** **Condoms useless** </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Kahaner 06** (Larry, Lecturer of Competitive Intelligence, Kahaner is a Board Member of the Society of Competitive Intelligence Professionals “Lessons of the AK-47” [[http://www.noahshachtman.com/blog/archives/2892.html]] </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Only a rejection of crisis-driven politics in favor of our plan can solve- that means no DAs and CPs simultaneously; their DA impact advocacies effectively moot the solvency of the CPs. </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">**__Cuomo 96__**</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> (Chris J. Hypatia, “War is not just an event: Reflections on the significance of everyday Violence”, Bloomington: Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Iss. 4; pg. 30)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">And We’re T - Condoms, condoms as far as the eyes can see </span>**</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Fox 08** (James Mal, reporter and cameraman for FOX news “[[http://onthescene.blogs.foxnews.com/2008/10/15/international-troops-embrace-deployment-with-salsa-dancing-and-yoga/|International Troops Embrace Deployment with Salsa Dancing and Yoga]]” 10/15/08 http://onthescene.blogs.foxnews.com/author/maljames/page/2/) </span>

﻿

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">[[#x-Plan:]]</span>