=Affirmative - Bronx Science= 

We affirm this year's resolution as a metaphor - The USFG should reduce its military presence in South Korea by withdrawing from the 38th Parallel. 


The De-militarized zone of the 38th parallel is a border superimposed by the United States in order to block off the “communist threat” or North Korea, this border has no consideration of the culture nor the people who live in this land. It demarcates the zones of friend and enemy for the US. Being a friend of the US, South Korea is the purporter of ‘democratic values’ while North Korea is the enemy. It is the “Yellow Peril” that threatens the stable regime of American exploitation and violence of people of color around the world in the name of liberal democratic promotion.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bleiker</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Prof political theory @ University of Queensland, </span>**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">05 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Roland, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Divided Korea: Toward a Culture of Reconciliation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, p. 36-8] </span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">By scrutinizing the geopolitical context of Korea's security dilemmas, I bring the earlier discussions of individual and national identity back to the locus classicus of security studies, to its object and subject: the state.</span>...  

<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Indeed, in an almost mirror image of North Korea's vili- fied brinkmanship tactic, __the U.S. administration__ under President George W. Bush has embarked on a form of crisis diplomacy that explicitly generates threats in order to improve its negotiation posi- tion and force its opponent into submission.</span>

In fact, the border separates families and is a form of incommensurable violence.(Blieker) Day after day, year after year, Korean peoples are waiting to be reunited with their families. The ideological tensions of the Cold War is resolved with the Korean peoples paying the price-- with the Parallel --a constant daily reminder to the Koreans of a long standing of suffering and separation.
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bleiker and Hundt, 10 [Roland and David, "Ko Un and the Poetics of Postcolonial Identity, Global Society, 24: 3, 331- 349</span>**


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Questions of identity and nationalism in Korea cannot be understood outside the traumatic division of the country.... Forgotten things from the day past pile up filling the heart like the useless dust from a mountain range. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">This dichotomization of Asian Identities is used as a tool of colonization and Imperialism.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> <span class="apple-style-span">The Asian Exclusion acts became a technology of the state to hierarcharize and disenfranchise Asian Identities, deeming them as “Non-whites“</span></span>
**Lowe, Lisa. Professor of Comparative Literature @ UC San Diego. From Immigrant Acts: On Asian American Cultural Politics: North Carolina: Duke University Press**, **1996**

In the last century and a half, the American citizen has been defined over against the Asian immigrant, legally, economically, and culturally.... Immigration exclusion acts and naturalization laws have thus been not only means of regulating the terms of the citizen and the nation-state but also an intersection of the legal and political terms with an orientalist discourse that defined Asians as culturally and racially "other" in times when the United States was militarily and economically at war with Asia. 

<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">This “non-whiteness is under the reasoning that they were “stealing” white jobs and creating “white poverty”.</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;"> Due to American securitization, Asian immigrants that enter US soil are marginalized in order to secure American hegemony in the spheres of military and economy. Asians in the US have been racialized and always seen as ‘forever foreign’</span>
**Lowe, Lisa. Professor of Comparative Literature @ UC San Diego. From Immigrant Acts: On Asian American Cultural Politics: North Carolina: Duke University Press**, **1996**

Racialization along the legal axis of definitions of citizenship has also ascribed "gender" to the Asian American subject... The differentiation of Asian immigrants from the national citizenry is marked not only politically but culturally as well refracted through images, memories, and narratives - submerged, fragmented and sedimented in a historical "unconscious" - it is rearticulated in Asian American culture through the emergence of alternative identities and practices. 

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">This produced a constant exclusion of Asians from the national collectivity and national culture. This highlighted the contradiction of the American Capitalism and American Politics. It exposes how the American economy needs to use a divide and conquer method in order to generate enough cheap labor for production and its contradiction with the political sphere that is built on striving for a democratic American utopia.</span>  
**Lowe, Lisa. Professor of Comparative Literature @ UC San Diego. From Immigrant Acts: On Asian American Cultural Politics: North Carolina: Duke University Press**, **1996**

Understanding Asian immigration to the United States is fundamental to understanding the racialized foundations of both the emergence of the United States as a nation and the development of American capitalism.... Some cultural forms succeed in making it possible to live and inhabit alternatives in the encounter with those prohibitions. 

**The dichotomization creates stereotypes that paint the Asian identities as threats or are docile objects for integration into the larger American culture of whiteness and capitalism. These constantly changing depictions are the reasons that the United States has created the separation between the “good immigrant” or the domesticated model minority and the “bad immigrant” or “yellow peril”. These stereotypes as well as racialization only mean discrimination against entire groups as well as securitization against Asian culture by sustaining a fear of Asian “foreigness” that allows for domination.**
**Lowe, Lisa. Professor of Comparative Literature @ UC San Diego. From Immigrant Acts: On Asian American Cultural Politics: North Carolina: Duke University Press**, **1996**

Thoughout the twentieth century, the figure of the Asian immigrant has served as a "screen", a phantasmatic site, on which the nation projects a series of condensed, complicated anxieties regarding external and internal threats to the mutable coherence of the national body: the invading multitude, the lascivious seductress, the servile yet treacherous domestic, the automation whose inhuman efficiency will suersede American ingenuity.... The presence of Asia and Asian people that currently impinges on the national consciousness sustains the figuation of the Asian immigrant as a transgressive and corrupting "foreignness" and continues to make Asians an object of the law, the political sphere, as well as national culture. 

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">This process of inclusion and exclusion is based on whiteness as central to the national formation of its normalized citizen. This national identity is necessary to create internal cohesion for the US imperial expansion.</span>**
**Lowe, Lisa. Professor of Comparative Literature @ UC San Diego. From Immigrant Acts: On Asian American Cultural Politics: North Carolina: Duke University Press**, **1996**

Citzens inhabit the political space of the nation, a space that is, at once, juridically legislated, territorially situated , and culturally embodied.... 

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 16pt;">This nationalism and forced assimilation is synonymous with the exportation of democracy and military presence in other non-white, non-democratic countries</span>****<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">R</span>****<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">ADHAKRISHNAN</span>****<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH AND COMPARATIVE LITERATURE AT THE SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES</span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">PH</span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">D</span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">., S</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">TATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK</span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">, **1993** [ R</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">AJAGOPALAN</span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">, V</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">OL</span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">. 16, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">NO</span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">. 4, </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">PAGE </span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">752-753 </span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">ON </span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">―P</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">OST </span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">C</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">OLONIAL </span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">D</span><span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">ISCOURSE</span><span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">‖] </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11.5pt; line-height: 115%;">The phrase "boundaries of identity" </span> .... 
<span style="font-size: 11.5pt;">This political jerrymandering of a heterogeneous people into nation-state identification for purposes of control and domina-tion unfortunately creates longterm disturbances that last well into the post-colonialist/ nationalist phase.</span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">This is a mask created by the state in order to re-entrench militarism and imperialism through the exportation of the democratic utopian dream. The dream justifies war through and illusion of missionary like occupations and securitization against alternative cultures in the name of preserving culture. </span>**
(<span class="Author-Date">Burke</span>, Anthony, <span class="Author-Date">05</span>, 'Freedom's Freedom: American Enlightenment and Permanent War', Social Identities, 11:4, 315 – 343)

Security is.... 
<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Freedom is something America brings to the world, for itself and from within itself. It is not a space in the world to which it submits, which binds it or presents any limits, moral, political or ethical</span></span>