[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC Futenma - Valley== 

Contention 1: Inherency 

The relocation of 8,000 troops to Guam in the 2006 Security agreement shows that the base will not be removed

The Daily Yomiuri 10, July 24, “U.S. marines' Guam move seen delayed / Futenma plan also could be jeopardized , “http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/national/T100723005957.htm,) SM

WASHINGTON--The U.S. government has . . . connected with the relocation to Guam.


The resignation of Hatoyama has squandered any current communication or opportunities regarding the Okinawa issue, Kan is focusing on the economy, delaying progress

IHT, 10- The International Herald Tribune, June 11, 2010, Lexis Nexis, “The Okinawa Question,” accessed on 7-20-10) SM 

Whatever his reasons, it was . . . to give attention to reducing Okinawa's base burdens.

Plan: The United States Federal Government should remove Futenma Marine Air Force base from Okinawa and prevent relocation to anywhere on Japan. 

Contention 2 – The Alliance 

In spite of firm Japanese resistance and the fracturing of the Japan-U.S. Alliance, Obama insists on relocating the obsolete marine base to another area of Japan

Feffer, 10 John the co-director of foreign policy in Focus at the Institute for Foreign Policy Studies, March 6, 2010, Asia Times, ”Okinawa and the New Domino Effect,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html, ) SM

The current battle over the US . . . its high-water mark and will soon recede.  

After Hatoyama was voted out of office due to his inability to remove the base, future politicians will either listen to the public demands or be replaced. Grassroots movements will force the US out of Japan, isolating it in the Pacific

Auslin 10 Michael Director of Japan Studies at The American Enterprise Institute, June 16, 2010 “The Real Futenma Fallout,” Wall Street Journal, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704324304575307471399789704.html) SM

In particular, defense officials focused . . . upholding the alliance's military capabilities. 

We can only prevent a reverse island hop by withdrawing from Futenma and freeze anti-base movements across Japans. Past NIMBY movements prove they have the ability to force us out 

Feffer 10 , John the co-director of foreign policy in Focus at the Institute for Foreign Policy Studies, March 6, 2010, Asia Times, ”Okinawa and the New Domino Effect,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html, ) SM

Wherever the US military puts . . . Japan and off the Island. 

High base costs and a variety of problems with the base will destroy the alliance. Withdrawal without opening another base solves.

Feffer 10, John the co-director of foreign policy in Focus at the Institute for Foreign Policy Studies, March 6, 2010, Asia Times, ”Okinawa and the New Domino Effect,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Japan/LC06Dh01.html, ) SM

The immediate source of tension . . . in Tokyo into a corner. 

Three scenarios:

1. Chinese adventurism

Strong U.S. Japan Alliance key to deter Chinese adventurism and hostility 

Tkacick 4, John, Jr., Senior Research Felloe, July 13, 2004, Heritage Foundation, “China's New Challenge to the U.S.-Japan Alliance” http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2004/07/Chinas-New-Challenge-to-the-US-Japan-Alliance,” ) SM

As Chinese warships and naval . . . rapidly expanding submarine fleet.

Regional Instability in Asia is the Flashpoint for Global Nuclear War –East Asia holds the largest nuclear armed powers-US-Japan Alliance Solves

Armitage et al 0- Richard L. Armitage et al., 2000 Kurt M.Campbell, Michael J. Green, Joseph S. Nye et al. fmr. Dep. Secretary of State, CSIS, CFR, JFK School of Government at Harvard (also contributed to by James A. Kelly, Pacific Forum, Center for Strategic and International Studies; Edward J. Lincoln, Brookings Institution; Robert A. Manning, Council on Foreign Relations; Kevin G. Nealer, Scowcroft Group; James J. Przystup, Institute for National Strategic Studies, National Defense University; “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, Institute for National Strategic Studies Special Report, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)

Asia, in the throes of historic . . . America’s global security strategy.

2. Democracy

US- Japanese Relations key to solve democracy

Rapp ‘4, William E., Lieutenant Col. With a PH.D in IR from Stanford, “Paths Diverging? http://www.carlisle.army.mil/ssi/pdffiles/PUB367.pdf

Finally, the alliance can . . . stability to the region.

Democracy is critical to preventing extinction 

Diamond 95 [Larry, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s”]

This hardly exhausts the . . . prosperity can be built.

Advantage 2 – Japanese Politics

Kan’s political career is on the brink- only removing the base will give him the support to bass his reform

Irish Times 10, 7/13/10, "Japan faces political gridlock after drubbing of ruling party", lexis, DH)

CHAOS, REVOLT and policy . . . alliance with the US. 

Okinawa base issue will derail Kan’s popularity- destroying his agenda- Agenda is key to Ensuring stability

Kyodo News 10 June 11, 2010, “Stability, unity key to Kan’s success: expert http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100611f2.html)

WASHINGTON — Ensuring stability and . . . as we look forward," she said.

Lack of action from Kan leads to Japanese economic collapse

Rafferty 10 former managing director at the World Bank, editor in chief of PlainWords Media, a group of journalists specializing in economic development issues June 10, 2010 (“Can Kan Revive Japan?” Special Report for the Japan Times http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20100610a1.html)

Some economists, including foreign . . . stagnation and an aging society. 

Reforms on Kan’s agenda is key to deflation and saves Japans economy

WSJ 10 June 18, 2010 “Correct: Japan Govt Aims For Growth Through Investments, Tax Cuts” http://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20100618-703746.html?mod=WSJ_latestheadlines) SM

Prime Minister Naoto Kan's . . . the economy cannot revive."

Japanese econ decline collapses the US economy 

Auslin 9 [Michael Resident Scholar at American Enterprise Institute, February 17, Wall Street Journal http://online.wsj.com/article/SB123483257056995903.html]

Recently, many economists . . . under the U.S. economy. 

US econ collapse leads to China collapse and global nuclear war

Mead 9, Walter Russell Mead, Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 09, Henry A. Kissinger , 2/4/2009 (,“Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2)

The damage to China's . . . or New Delhi to be born?

Contention 4 – Solvency 

U.S. firm commitment to the relocation of Futenma is complacent with outdated Cold-War thinking, the plan acknowledges Japan’s modern role in the alliance and creates more stable relations

Dyer 10- J.E. Dyer, journalist and former intelligence analyst, who served internationally for US Naval intelligence from 1983 to 2004 March 11, 2010 “Past Time to Rethink Our Approach to Japan,” http://hotair.com/greenroom/archives/2010/03/11/past-time-to-rethink-our-approach-to-japan/” ) SM

“Smart power” from the Obama . . . the interests that endure.



=Negative= 

==Orientalism 1nc==

Troop reductions legitimize imperialism by improving the US image

Boggs 5 [Carl, Professor of Social Sciences at National University in Los Angeles, Adjunct Professor at Antioch University in Los Angeles, Imperial Delusions: American Militarism and Endless War, isbn: 0742527727, p _81-82____]-AC 

Despite troop and base . . . expanded worldwide military deployments.  

Their portrayal of the non-West makes war inevitable and prevents the aff from solving

Marrouchi 98  (Mustapha, professor postcolonial literature LSU, Counternarratives, Recoveries, Refusals,boundary 2, Vol. 25, No. 2, Edward W. Said. (Summer, 1998), pp. 205-257)

At the most basic level . . . would certainly be one.

They worsen the inverted espistemology of ignorance that creates a racial fantasyland that policy makers work from 

Mills 97 [ Charles, professor  of philsophy at Northwestern University, 1997 “The Racial Contract “p.18-19]

Thus in effect, on . . . alarmed real-life counterparts.

This inverted epistemology fuels white supremacy, which makes wars, orientalism, imperialism, and genocides inevitable	

Daniels 09
(Lenore Jean, PhD, has been a writer, for over thirty years of commentary, resistance criticism and cultural theory, and short stories with a Marxist sensibility to the impact of cultural narrative violence and its antithesis, resistance narratives dern American Literatures, with a specialty in Cultural Theory (race, gender, class narratives) from Loyola University, Chicago, U.S. Corporate-Militarist Government Motto: Oppress the Dialogue on White Supremacy - Oppress the Rage of Oppressed People Represent Our Resistance, April 2, 2009, http://www.phillyimc.org/en/us-corporate-militarist-government-motto) 

King called for Black Americans . . .military industrial complex policies. 


Alternative: Reject the imperialist orientalist white supremacist epistemology of the aff to build genuine interactions with the East
Sered 96 
(“Orientalism” Danielle Sered, Rhodes Scholar Postcolonial Studies at Emory Fall 1996 http://www.english.emory.edu/Bahri/Orientalism.html)  

Said calls into question the . . .part of the 'Oriental.' 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]