[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC== 
**Plan text: the United States Federal Government should implement a phased withdrawal of its ground troops in the Republic of Korea**
===**<span style="font-size: 15pt;"> Korean War</span>**=== 
<span style="line-height: 13.5pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**Tensions on the Korean Peninsula are high, North Korea has threatened to attack South Korea and the U.S. due to military drills they perceive as rehearsal for invasion**</span>
<span style="line-height: 13.5pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**Kim 8/16** <Hyung-Jin Kim is a staff writer for the associated press. August 16, 2010. North Country Times “North Korea, U.S., launch war games despite North Korea Threat.” [[http://www.nctimes.com/news/world/article_4d3fef4f-5420-5ad5-b4b6-8a53ed2c0da2.html]]></span>
South Korean and U.S. troops launched computerized military drills Monday …… has ever met in the world."

**South Korean and U.S. military maneuvers are rising tensions on the peninsula and emboldening China against them**
**Jung 8/31** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><Jung Sung Ki, August 31, 2010. “ROK, U.S. to hold joint naval drills in West Sea” The Korea Times [[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/08/205_72328.html]]></span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">South Korea and the United States will conduct joint anti-submarine …… North Korean submarine sank the Cheonan warship near the West Sea border, killing 46 sailors.</span></span>

**U.S. troops create tensions on the peninsula that cause miscalculation and escalation to war-five internal links why the U.S. is key**
**Sanger, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/28/10, David E. Sanger, NY Times, “In the Koreas, Five Possible Ways to War,” [[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/weekinreview/30sanger.html]], JMP)</span>
Usually, there is a familiar cycle to Korea crises. Like a street gang showing off its power to run ………… or wherever else North Korea found its customers.

**A Korean war would draw in the U.S. and China and embolden them against each other**
**Watcher, 10** (5/27/10, Paul Watcher, writer for aol. http://www.aolnews.com/world/article/south-korea-vs-north-korea-what-another-korean-war-would-look-like/19491485)
(May 27) -- Tensions continue to mount on the Korean peninsula in the wake of an ……… the cult state that is North Korea. Whatever military challenges war would bring would be dwarfed by these postwar social challenges.

**War between the Koreas and their allies goes nuclear and ensures CBW use**
**Goodspeed, 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Award winning report for The National Post (Peter, 6/26/10, The National Post, “Kim's rain of terror; If war starts, North Korea could shower South Korea with 8,500 high-explosive shells every minute” l/n)</span>
Yet, after 57 years of an uneasy armistice, if another war breaks out on the …………releasing massive walls of water from its dams above the DMZ.

**Even a limited nuclear war would cause mass death, global cooling, global agricultural failure, and extinction**
**Robock and Toon in 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><”Local Nuclear War, Global Catastrophe.” Alan Robock is a professor of climatology, associate director of the Center for Environmental Prediction, and a part of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Owen Toon is chair of the department of atmospheric and oceanic sciences at the University of Colorado, and fellow of the American Meteorological Society and American Geophysical Union. Scientific American, January 2010 Issue, pgs 74-81></span>
Twenty-five years ago international teams of scientists showed that a nuclear war between …… and remain suspended in the upper atmosphere for years, continuing to block sunlight and to cool the earth.

**A phased withdrawal is key, it prevents U.S. draw in and allows regional security efforts to effectively resolve Korea crises**
**Carpenter, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, CATO Handbook for Congress, 7th Edition, “54. East Asian Security Commitments,” [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb111/hb111-54.pdf]], JMP)</span>
South Korea The U.S. alliance with the Republic of Korea ……. little benefit today for keeping South Korea as a security client. 

**U.S. presence is useless to deter aggression – withdrawal will motivate South Korea and China to stabilize and de-nuclearize the peninsula**
**Erickson, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Executive Director of CenterMovement.org (5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” [[http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/]], JMP)</span>
On the night of March 26 the South Korean 1,200-ton warship Cheonan …….__Cold War artifact that needs to be brought home before it’s too late.__

===**<span style="font-size: 15pt;">Secession Politics</span>**=== 

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="color: black;">North Korea is rushing a major transfer of power now due to Kim Jong Il’s sickness</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Harlan 9/5 </span>**<span style="color: black;"><Chico Harlan writes for the Washington Post Foreign Service. September 5, 2010. “N. Korea’s leader set to begin power shift to son, experts say” The Washington Post </span>[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/09/04/AR2010090403059.html]]></span>
North Korean leader Kim Jong Il will probably use ….. act as a regent for the power transfer, and Chinese President Hu Jintao.

<span class="Underline">**Succession politics makes aggression worse and conflict more likely because Kim Jong Un will try to use military victories to maintain power**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sang-Hun, 10** – (5/28/10, Choe, The New York Times, “Succession Concerns Drive North Korea, Experts Say,” http://www.lexisnexis.com)</span>
<span class="Underline">SEOUL, South Korea -- Over the years, South Korean officials and analysts …………. and his top aides were all in China.''</span>

<span class="Underline">**The current succession crisis is headed for a regime collapse that would destabilize the region**</span>
//**Meyers, 10**// //– professor at Dongseo University in South Korea (3/26/10, B.R. Meyers, “ North Korea on the Edge; If the regime collapses, will the rest oftheworldbeready?”http://online.wsj.com/articSB10001424052748704100604575145672974954144.html?mod=WSJ_hpp_RIGHTTopCar ousel)//
As for tensions with the south, they rose again Friday with the sinking of …..in restoring stability.'' The possibility has Seoul worried too. 

**U.S. presence and intervention during a regime collapse would cause superpower conflict with China**
**Emmott, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Independent writer and consultant on international affairs and former editor of The Economist (5/31/10, Bill, The Sunday Times, “China’s stance on North Korea could lead to war,” [[http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/comment/columnists/bill_emmott/article7140609.ece]], JMP)</span>
It is time to worry rather more, by focusing instead ……stuck in the 1950s. Unless that happens, next time it could really be war. 

**Withdrawing troops avoids conflict and solves by motivating China and South Korea to effectively influence the leadership transition**
**Bandow, 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (9/15/08, Doug Bandow, Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and former special assistant to Reagan “Dear Leader Goes South,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=19868]], JMP)</span>
North Korea offers a rare example of monarchical communism. ……Pyongyang to others in the region, most importantly South Korea and China. 

**Chinese involvement is key to stabilize Korea – prevents violent collapse and denuclearizes the peninsula**
**Bandow, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –< Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]], JMP)></span>
Second, the United States, South Korea and Japan must develop a unified …… incident should impel a serious rethinking of the current U.S.-ROK alliance as well as the strategy for involving China in the North Korean issue. 
===**<span style="font-size: 15pt;">Nuclear Arms Trade</span>**=== 

<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #252525;">North Korea has announced it has the technology to build nuclear bombs and plans to increase its stockpile because of U.S. presence</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #252525;">Chan-Kyong in 9 </span>**<span style="color: #252525;"><Park Chan-Kyong. AFP.”North Korea Vows to Build More Nuclear Bombs” June 13, 2009 </span>[[http://www.armybase.us/2009/06/north-korea-vows-to-build-more-nuclear-bombs/]]></span>
The hardline communist state, in a foreign ministry statement …… inevitable course of action forced upon us by the US hostile policy and nuclear threats.”

**North Korea is already a lynchpin of eastern arms trade and is likely to begin selling WMD’s to terrorist states**
**Solomon 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><Jay Solomon, Wall Street Journal, May 29, 2009. “Tests point to spread of weapons trade” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB124347081988160711.html]]></span>
Signs of growth in North Korea's nuclear program and the country's…… region," said a senior Israeli counterproliferation official. "All of them.” 

<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Allowing North Korea to sell these weapons makes nuclear terrorism inevitable</span>**</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Weinberger 9/5 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"><Sharon Weinberger. Sharon, a national security reporter based in Washington, has been a contributor for Wired's Danger Room and has written for Nature, Discover, The Financial Times and Slate “Nuclear Terrorism, Five Scary Scenarios.” September 5, 2010. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.aolnews.com/team/sharon-weinberger/]]></span>
<span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black;">Security experts have long warned of the danger posed …….develop biological or chemical weapons," they wrote.</span></span>

**Terrorist acquisition of nuclear weapons guarantees their use; terrorists cannot be deterred like states**
**Cirincione in 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><June 2004, Joseph Cirincione. Director for Non Proliferation Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “A Global Assessment of Nuclear Proliferation Threats” Weapons of Mass Destruction Commission. Pgs 2-5. [[http://www.wmdcommission.org/files/No10.pdf]]></span>
Despite decades of disarmament efforts, global nuclear arsenals …… facilities and scientists in the event of a government collapse.

**North Korea wants U.S. troops off the peninsula before it will denuclearize**
**Niksh in 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><Larry A Niksh, specialist in foreign affairs, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons Development and Diplomacy” May 27, 2009 Congressional Research Service. [[http://italy.usembassy.gov/pdf/other/Rl33590.pdf]]></span>
Denuclearization must include the entire …. Mutual Defense Treaty.

**Only a full withdrawal of U.S. troops will motivate China to denuclearize the peninsula**
**Garfinkle, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” [[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]], JMP)</span>
It made sense for ….. it. We can help them do so. 
==1AC - Alta== 
===Plan Text=== 
**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Text: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of its military presence in South Korea</span>**
[[#LastEdit]]
===Advantage One is Korean War=== 
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="MsoCommentReference"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">[[#_msocom_1|[ML1]]] </span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Shuman 11/23 <</span>**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">November 23, 2010. Michael Shuman “Will North Korea’s Artillery blast the global economy?” Time. http://curiouscapitalist.blogs.time.com/2010/11/23/will-north-korea%E2%80%99s-artillery-blast-the-global-economy/></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: "Georgia","serif";">North Korea</span>____<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";"> today <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">launched</span> scored … . <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">You can’t ignore us,"</span></span>__<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;"> Choi said.</span></span>

<span class="MsoCommentReference"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[#_msocom_2|[ML2]]] </span></span>
**Jung 8/31** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><Jung</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sung Ki, August 31, 2010. “ROK, U.S. to hold joint naval drills in West Sea” The Korea Times </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/08/205_72328.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">></span>
<span class="apple-style-span">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">South Korea and the U</span>____<span style="color: black;">nited<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> … </span></span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">West Sea border, killing 46 sailors.</span></span>

<span style="line-height: 13.5pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;"> </span>
<span style="line-height: 13.5pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">U.S. presence is the cause of tensions </span>**<span class="MsoCommentReference"><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">[[#_msocom_3|[ML3]]] </span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 13.5pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Kim 8/16 </span>**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;"><Hyung-Jin Kim is a staff writer for the associated press. August 16, 2010. North Country Times “North Korea, U.S., launch war games despite North Korea Threat.” </span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nctimes.com/news/world/article_4d3fef4f-5420-5ad5-b4b6-8a53ed2c0da2.html]]</span></span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 13.5pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">South Korean and U.S. troops launched </span>____<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">… <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">ever met in the world."</span></span>__</span>


<span class="MsoCommentReference"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[#_msocom_4|[ML4]]] </span></span>
**Sanger, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (5/28/10, David E. Sanger, NY Times, “In the Koreas, Five Possible Ways to War,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/weekinreview/30sanger.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Usually, there is a familiar cycle … North Korea found its customers.</span>
**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 13pt;">That causes multiple scenarios for extinction, </span>**
**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 1: CBW Use</span>**
<span class="MsoCommentReference"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[#_msocom_5|[ML5]]] </span></span>
**Goodspeed, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Award winning report for The National Post (Peter, 6/26/10, The National Post, “Kim's rain of terror; If war starts, North Korea could shower South Korea with 8,500 high-explosive shells every minute” l/n)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet, after 57 years of an … its dams above the DMZ.</span>


<span class="MsoCommentReference"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[#_msocom_6|[ML6]]] </span></span>
**Levy, 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,” [[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack … can be developed within days. </span>
<span class="MsoCommentReference"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[#_msocom_7|[ML7]]] </span></span>
**Ochs 02**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]</span>
__Of all the weapons of …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the highest of all crimes.</span>

**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 13pt;">Scenario 2: Retaliation</span>**

<span class="Underline">**The U.S. would respond to CBW’s with nuclear retaliation**</span>
**<span style="color: black;">NTI,</span>** **<span style="color: black;">2010</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (Nuclear Threat Initiative) Produced by the Monterey Institute's James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies. May. Deterring CBW Threats with Nuclear Weapons </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nti.org/f_wmd411/f1b6_1.html</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. )</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sometimes one weapon of mass … by a non-nuclear weapon state</span>
**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">That draws in China and emboldens them against the U.S.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";">Watcher, 10 </span>****<span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">(5/27/10, Paul Watcher, writer for aol. http://www.aolnews.com/world/article/south-korea-vs-north-korea-what-another-korean-war-would-look-like/19491485)</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(May 27) -- </span>__Tensions continue to …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">by these postwar social challenges.</span>
**Even a limited nuclear war would cause mass death, global cooling, global agricultural failure, and extinction**
**Robock and Toon in 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><”Local Nuclear War, Global Catastrophe.” Alan Robock is a professor of climatology, associate director of the Center for Environmental Prediction, and a part of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Owen Toon is chair of the department of atmospheric and oceanic sciences at the University of Colorado, and fellow of the American Meteorological Society and American Geophysical Union. Scientific American, January 2010 Issue, pgs 74-81></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Twenty-five years ago international … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">and</span>____<span style="color: black;"> to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">cool the earth.</span></span>__
**A phased withdrawal is key, it prevents U.S. draw in and allows regional security efforts to effectively resolve Korea crises**
**Carpenter, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen, CATO Handbook for Congress, 7th Edition, “54. East Asian Security Commitments,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb111/hb111-54.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">South Korea The U.S. alliance with … South Korea as a security client.</span> 

**U.S. presence is useless to deter aggression – withdrawal will motivate regional powers to stabilize and de-nuclearize the peninsula**
**Erickson, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Executive Director of CenterMovement.org (5/6/10, Stephen, “End the Cold War in Korea: Bring American Troops Home Before it’s Too Late,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.centermovement.org/topics-issues/end-the-cold-war-in-korea-bring-american-troops-home-before-its-too-late/]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the night of March 26 … </span>__home before it’s too late.__

===Advantage Two is Multilateralism=== 
<span class="Underline"> </span>
**U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – … conflict and major power domination**
**Francis, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” [[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the conclusion of the … a strong, independent East Asian Union.</span>
**Withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents devastating great power war**
**Lee, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security … </span>__form of the U.S.-Korea alliance.__
**South Korean independence from the United States is the only way to achieve a stable multilateral organization**
<span class="Underline">**Synder 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director, Center for U.S.-Korea Policy Senior Associate, International Relations (Scott, “China’s Rise and the Two Koreas: Politics, Economics, Security”, pg. 190) MGM</span></span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although the South Korean National … </span>also share the same perception</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Georgia","serif";">New East Asian challenges have emerged as potentially destabilizing factors – only regional solutions solve instability.</span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">
</span>[[#Affirmative-Feng_5/10/10_[Zhu,_PhD,_Prof]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Georgia","serif";">Feng</span>** <span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">5/10 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> [Zhu, PhD, Professor of School of International Studies and Director of the Center for International & Strategic Studies @ Peking University, has served as research fellow @ Washington based CSIS & Fairbank Center for East Asian Studies @ Harvard University, visiting scholar @ Durham University in UK, “an emerging trend in east asia: military budget increases and their impact”, May 10, 2010,</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/an_emerging_trend_in_east_asia]]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If it is not yet … every country in the region.</span>
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">Absent a regional security mechanism, Asian instability leads to global nuclear war</span>**</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Georgia","serif";">Landay 2k</span>** <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">[Jonathan S., National Security and Intelligence Correspondent, Knight Ridder/Tribune News Service, 3-10, Lexis]</span></span>
<span class="apple-style-span">__<span style="color: black;">Few,</span>__</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="apple-style-span">__<span style="color: black;">if any</span>__</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span><span class="apple-style-span">__<span style="color: black;">experts think … already shaky international nonproliferation regime.</span>__</span><span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>
**Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multilateral balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.**
**Espiritu, 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Can the U.S. live with the … the Eagle to head home. </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
===Advantage Three is the Nuclear Arms Trade=== 
<span style="line-height: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #252525; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">North Korea has announced it has the technology to build nuclear bombs and plans to increase its stockpile because of U.S. presence</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: #252525; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Chan-Kyong in 9 </span>**<span style="color: #252525; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;"><Park Chan-Kyong. AFP.”North Korea Vows to Build More Nuclear Bombs” June 13, 2009 </span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif";"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.armybase.us/2009/06/north-korea-vows-to-build-more-nuclear-bombs/]]</span></span><span style="font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;">></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: #252525; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">The hardline communist state</span>____<span style="color: #252525; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">, in a … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">hostile policy and nuclear threats.”</span></span>__</span>
**North Korea is already a lynchpin of eastern arms trade and is likely to begin selling full WMD’s to terrorist states**
**Solomon 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><Jay Solomon, Wall Street Journal, May 29, 2009. “Tests point to spread of weapons trade” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB124347081988160711.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">></span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Signs of growth in North … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">counterproliferation official. </span>__<span style="color: black;">"<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">All of them.”</span></span>__
<span style="line-height: 15pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Even if North Korean leaders don’t sell WMDs, corrupt officials will</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 15pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Mauro 11/16 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;"><Ryan Mauro, November 16, 2010. “Buying Destruction.” <span class="apple-style-span">Ryan Mauro is the founder of WorldThreats.com,</span> </span><span class="ilad"><span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">National</span> <span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">Security</span></span> <span class="apple-style-span"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;">Advisor to the Christian Action Network, and an intelligence analyst with the Asymmetric Warfare and Intelligence Center. </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://frontpagemag.com/2010/11/16/buying-destruction/]]></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 15pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 8pt;">We shouldn’t be surprised that a … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: "Arial","sans-serif"; font-size: 11pt;">used to traffic illicit materials.</span>__</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">

</span>
**Terrorist acquisition of nuclear weapons guarantees their use; terrorists cannot be deterred like states**
**Cirincione in 4** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><June 2004, Joseph Cirincione. Director for Non Proliferation Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “A Global Assessment of Nuclear Proliferation Threats” Weapons of Mass Destruction Commission. Pgs 2-5. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.wmdcommission.org/files/No10.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Despite decades of disarmament efforts, </span>__… <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the event of a government collapse.</span>__
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Nuclear Terrorism ensures omnicide</span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">Kreiger in 9 </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 8pt;"><David Kreiger, October 29, 2009. “Preventing Omnicide.” Nuclear Age Peace Foundation. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/10/29_krieger_preventing_omnicide.php?krieger]]></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">__<span style="color: black; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 11pt;">If <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">omnicide is possible</span>, which … </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: "Georgia","serif"; font-size: 10.5pt;">provide security for their possessors.</span></span>
**North Korea wants U.S. troops off the peninsula before it will denuclearize**
**Niksh in 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;"><Larry A Niksh, specialist in foreign affairs, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons Development and Diplomacy” May 27, 2009 Congressional Research Service. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://italy.usembassy.gov/pdf/other/Rl33590.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">></span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Denuclearization must include the entire … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">U.S.-South Korean Mutual Defense Treaty.</span>
**Only a full withdrawal of U.S. troops will motivate China to denuclearize the peninsula**
**Garfinkle, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>

__It made sense for the U.S. … it. We can help them do so.__


=Negative= 
==T== 
===Military = All=== 
**The adjective “military” means the plan must apply to all of the armed forces generally—the plan applies only to one branch**
SPIRITUS TEMPORIS 2005
(History website, “Military,” http://www.spiritus-temporis.com/military/meaning-of-the-word.html)
__In American English<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">, "military" as an adjective is</span> more widely used <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">for regulations pertaining to and between all the armed forces</span>__ like military procurement, military transport, military justice, military strength and military force.
==Counterplans== 
===Consult Russia=== 

**Text: The United States federal government should propose that** The Department of Defense redeploy Marines from Japan other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.**to the Russian Federation for binding consultation. The United States should support the proposal during consultation and abide by the result of consultation. We’ll clarify**
[[#_Toc51068540]]
**Observation one is competition –**

**A) “should” and “will” are “used to express obligation” and “a requirement,” meaning it implies such permanence—Dictionary.com,** [[#_Toc51068541]]

**B)** **Thus, the fiat of the plan is unconditional, with immediate action and enforcement. Otherwise, they can spike out of offense by claiming the plan is delayed or unenforced. Consultation is mutually exclusive because it conditions the plan on Russia’s acceptance.**

**Observation two is the net benefit –**
**US-Russian Relations are stable in the status quo--but relations need to get to the next level in order to solve for future conflicts**
**Burns, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Under Secretary for Political Affairs - Center for American Progress (4/14/10, William J. US Department of State, “ The United States and Russia in a New Era: One Year After "Reset"”, http://www.state.gov/p/us/rm/2010/140179.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">Thank you for that kind introduction. I’m truly ……………and Americans, and for the entire world. </span></span>

**Consultation is key to Russian-US relations and a successful revamp of NATO-Russia Council**
**Butcher 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Martin, independent international security analyst; June 28, 2009; NATO Monitor http://natomonitor.blogspot.com/2009/06/nato-russia-council-back-in-action.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The NATO-Russia Council ( NRC) ……………..</span> __Afghanistan are now on the table for future cooperation.__

**History Proves Abandoning the NRC and avoiding consultation Collapses Relations**
**Smith 2006**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senior Lecturer in Defence and International Affairs at the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, UK</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Martin A., Russia and NATO since 1991 From Cold War through cold peace to partnership?, 2006, Routledge, p104)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">During 2004 and 2005………… behaving ‘as if it was in the context of 1985 when the Soviet Union was an enemy’.78</span>

**Collapse of US-Russian relations causes full-scale nuclear war**
**FORDEN 2001**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Geoffrey, senior research fellow at the Security Studies Program at MIT, Policy Analysis)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The danger posed by those </span>……….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> launched. </span>__U.S. assistance, however, should be narrowly focused on solving real problems.__

**Extinction**
**Ira Helfand and John Pastore 2009**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (both past presidents of Physicians for Social Responsibility) “U.S.-Russia nuclear war still a threat”, http://www.projo.com/opinion/contributors/content/CT_pastoreline_03-31-09_EODSCAO_v15.bbdf23.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Obama and Russian President ……….. The ready alert status of nuclear weapons that existed in 1995 remains in place today. </span>

===Condition on NK Denuke=== 
**Text:**
**The United States federal government should offer to withdraw its ground troops from the Republic of Korea if the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea agrees to simultaneously freeze its nuclear program.**

**__Only__ the counterplan can solve – … nuclear negotiations with __indefinite demands__**
**Horowitz, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – doctoral candidate in the Department of Government at Harvard and a predoctoral fellow in national security at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies (Winter 2004-05, The Washington Quarterly, “Who’s Behind That Curtain? Unveiling Potential Leverage over Pyongyang,” [[http://www.twq.com/05winter/docs/05winter_horowitz.pdf]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">One goal clearly articulated by … </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">nuclear issue with indefinite demands</span>.__**
**The plan alone crushes U.S. deterrence and causes war and allied prolif**
**Cronin, et. al, 94**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Report Coordinator and Specialist in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division at the CRS (6/1/1994, Richard P., CRS Report for Congress, CRS94-470F, “North Korea's Nuclear Weapons Program: U.S. Policy Options,” [[http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/crs/94-470f.htm]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While</span> __a U.S. withdrawal based on a credible … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">nuclear program towards weapons production.</span>__

===Tacticals=== 
<span class="apple-style-span">**<span style="color: black;">Text: The United States federal government should deploy Artillery Fired Atomic Projectiles to the Eighth United States Army in Korea</span>**</span>

**The counterplan bolsters deterrence and makes nuclear threats credible**
**UPI 10-29-2009**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (“Calls for nuclear weapons in South Korea,” http://www.spacewar.com/reports/Calls_for_nuclear_weapons_in_South_Korea_999.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">With the U.S. defense chief in … </span>__North's nuclear threat__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, he said. </span>
**Solves the case and allows the US to deter, dissuade, and defeat North Korea**
**TAMSETT 2003** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Jeremy, Graduate Research Assistant at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Center for Nonproliferation Studies, Monterey Institute of International Studies, “The Evolving U.S. Strategic Landscape: A Fresh Look at Low-Yield Nuclear Weapons,” December 1, http://www.gyre.org/news/article/3599/#fulltext)</span>
__Diplomacy is the__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ?</span>__tool__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">in … </span>__desirable answer to that dilemma__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Multilateralism Advantage CP</span>=== 
**The United States federal government should fully commit to a new round of six party talks and end free trade with China**

**Solves Asian Regionalism and Multilateralism**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**Hilton, no date** (Henry Hilton, Japan Today, “http://www.japantoday.com/category/book-reviews/view/east-asian-multilateralism-prospects-for-regional-stability)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">__Why can’t Asia get its … for good in regional affairs.__ </span>


==Disads== 
===US-ROK Alliance=== 
**U.S. __ground forces__ key to … a __credible__ nuclear guarantee for Seoul**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Payne, et. al, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor in Defense and Strategic Studies at Missouri State University (March 2010, Dr. Keith Payne, Study Director Thomas Scheber Kurt Guthe, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia,”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf]], JMP)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Forward deployment</span> of forces,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> then, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">… </span>essential to the nuclear guarantee.__

**Prevents South Korean prolif**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Hughes, 2007</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher W., PhD University of Sheffield, 1997, Reader/Associate Professor, University of Warwick. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan,” January, Asia Policy No 3, http://www.nbr.org/publications/asia_policy/AP3/AP3Hughes.pdf]</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">South Korea’s history of considering … </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the reaffirmation of U.S. security guarantees.54</span>
**Escalates to global nuclear war**
**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Cirincione, 2000</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The blocks would fall quickest … </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">use of a nuclear weapon</span> since__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>__45__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victory</span>=== 
**War with North Korea is inevitable this year—the US will win now**
**Manasan 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – graduate student in the Master of Journalism program at Ryerson University (Althea, “Pressure to bolster North Korean leader makes war inevitable, analyst says,” National Post, May 28, http://www.nationalpost.com/news/Pressure+bolster+Korean+leader+makes+inevitable+analyst/3085070/story.html, Crowe)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While some experts believe tensions … that </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% fuchsia;">North Korea would lose it.”</span>__
**US ground forces in Korea are critical to the hold the line while reinforcements arrive—early North Korean successes would prevent the US from landing reinforcements**
**GLOBAL SECURITY.ORG 2010**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (“OPLAN 5027 Major Theater War – West,” April 27, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/oplan-5027.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Pyongyang can credibly threaten the … </span>__conducting over-the-shore operations__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. </span>
**Failure to reinforce South Korea and win the war crushes American hegemony**
**GREEN 5-27**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, writer and broadcaster, “North vs. South Korea: How Bad Could a War Get?” 5-27-2010, http://pajamasmedia.com/blog/north-vs-south-korea-how-bad-could-a-war-get/?singlepage=true)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It’s almost certain that the … </span>__is most un-American. “Tread on Me__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>
**Nuke war**
**KHALILZAD 1995**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Zalmay, RAND analyst and now U.S. ambassador to Iraq, The Washington Quarterly)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the third option, the … a multipolar balance of power system.</span>

==Kritiks== 
===Security=== 
**Focus on deployments obscures the more fundamental questions of US militarism**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jairus </span>**Grove,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> PhD Candidate Johns Hopkins, 3-16-</span>**10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://contemporarycondition.blogspot.com/2010/02/new-wars-new-warriors.html</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">I had no recollection of what it was. I assumed it was an ……………</span><span class="Underline">finality. This cannot be the best we can do. </span>

**Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their advantage descriptions will be used to justify massive violence, that turns case**
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">Karsten **Friis,** UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, **2k** [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]]</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The problem with societal securitization is </span>…………… measures taken against it. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">This is possible by using the myths, by speaking on behalf of the natural</span></span> and eternal, <span class="Underline">where truth is never questioned. </span></span>

**Critical praxis outweighs policy making- voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self fulfilling prophecy**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Graeme </span>**Cheeseman,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, </span>**and**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Robert </span>**Bruce** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ</span>**, ‘96** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)</span>
This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional in the intellectual …….. their academic advisors are unaware of broader intellectual debates, or resistant to them, or choose not to understand them, and why?
==Specific Rounds== 
=== === 
===Meadows - Round 2 Green Valley GS=== 
=====[[#LastEdit]]Framework===== 
**failure to have a concrete option we can debate against guarantees that oppression continues and efforts for change backfire**
**STEVE 2007** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anonymous member of Black Block and Active Transformation who lives in East Lansing, MI, Date Last Mod. Feb 8, http://www.nadir.org/nadir/initiativ/agp/free/global/a16dcdiscussion.htm)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What follows is not an attempt to discredit our efforts. It was a powerful and inspiring couple of days. I feel it is important to always analyze our actions and be self-critical, and try to move forward, advancing our movement. </span>__The State has used ………. prepared to build up the state__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or a new state.</span>
**Third, it undermines clash—it’s impossible to engage their ideas if we don’t know what they are—that clash is critical to develop strategies and test ideas which eventually result in social change**
**BRANHAM 1995** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Robert, Professor of Rhetoric at Bates College, Argumentation and Advocacy, Winter)</span>
__In the years …………<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> in the light generated by confrontation</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
We need a plan of state action in order to keep our fragile coalitions from falling apart or becoming susceptible to outside attacks. 
<span class="StyleStyleBold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Iglesias and Valdes in 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> <Elizabeth M (Professor of Law and Co-Director, University of Miami Center for Hispanic and Caribbean Legal Studies) Francisco (Professor of Law and Co-Director, University of Miami Center for Hispanic and Caribbean Legal Studies) “Afterword to LatCrit v Symposium; LatCrit at Five: Institutionalizing a Postsubordination Future” Denver University Law Review 2001 78 Denv. U.L. Rev. 1249></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The many positive ………deem central to LatCrit's origins, past, present and future--is manifest both in the Annual Conferences as well as in other more recent initiatives.</span>
=====Statism===== 
1)State Inevitable
a.The state is inevitable
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Carens, 96</span>’ <span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Joseph H, spring, Professor at the Department of Political Science of the University of Toronto, “Realistic and Idealistic Approaches to the Ethics of Migration”, International Migration Review, Vol. 30, No. 1, Jstor)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps </span><span class="underline0">the prime ……<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> what is to be done in practice.</span></span>
**b. Turns the Aff - CATEGORICAL REJECTION OF STATES UNDERCOMPLICATES THEIR CAUSE: IT MAKES IT IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE WHAT IS PROBLEMATIC ABOUT THE STATE, BECAUSE IT IS ALWAYS ALREADY THE PROBLEM**
**ISAAC,** New School for Social Research**, 2002** (Jeffrey C., //Social Research//, Summer, p. EXAC)
Finally, to do ……….. even a fraction of the energy to this theme that he devotes to the task of debunking official United States rhetoric. 
<span class="underline0">2. Realism</span>
**a. Realism is true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.**
**__Mearsheimer__** 200**__1__** [professor of political science at University of Chicago, //The Tragedy of Great Power Politics//, pg. 361]
__The optimists' claim that ……… about one hundred thousand troops each in Europe and in Northeast Asia for the explicit purpose of keeping the major states in each region at peace.__

__b.__ **Rejecting Realism results in the worst atrocities**
**Thayer 2k**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Bradley, political scientist and an associate professor in Missouri State University's Department of Defense and Strategic Studies, the MIT Press, International Security, Vol. 25, No. 2(Autumn 2000), pp. 124-151, "Bringing in Darwin: Evolutionary Theory, Realism, and International Politics”)</span>
<span class="Underline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% fuchsia;">Irrespective of the ultimate </span>………… conflict, like war and peace, is part of the fabric of international politics</span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">3) Cede the Political</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A.State-centered politics is key – the alt cedes the political to nationalist and protectionist movements</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schmidt 2008 </span></span>[Johannes Dragsbaek, Associate Professor, Global Development Studies, Aalborg University, “The Collapse of Neoliberal Globalization and the Emergence of New Visions “, paper for the International Workshop “Asserting Democracy, Reclaiming Human Rights”, Asia-Europe Caucus on Democracy and Human Rights, 6-8 June]
The unstoppable sweep of globalization ………. financial sector which was unthinkable just a year ago.
B. **Extinction results from abandoning policy advocacy**
<span class="il">**Boggs**</span> **97**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – professor of social sciences, Los Angeles (Carl, The Great Retreat, Theory and Society 26.6, jstor)</span>
__The false sense of empowerment that ……….__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">t had vanished from civil society.75</span>

**4.**
**a. D&G Steryotypes the state**
**Behdad**, Dept Chair – Comparative Lit, University of California, Los Angeles, **05**
(Ali, //Portal Journal of Multidisciplinary International Studies// Vol. 2, No. 2 July)
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">What we encounter in </span>……… in business transactions__. 
**b. That's bad because it prevents us from realizing when the state is at its worst**
**ISAAC**, New School for Social Research, 02 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeffrey C., //Social Research//, Summer, p. EXAC)</span>
Finally, to do so ……….__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> public policies.</span>__

=====Fight Club DA===== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Project Mayhem:</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">a) A politics of lines of flight inevitably restratifies and turns into what it opposes – their transcendence of boundaries can’t happen without tons of violence. They start out as Fight Club but turn into Project Mayhem. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bülent </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diken</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, lecturer in Sociology at Lancaster University,</span><span class="cite"> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Carsten Bagge </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Laustsen</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Ph.D. student at the University of Copenhagen, Department of Political Sciences, September </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2001</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, online: http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/… when fight club ends” (Palahniuk 1997: 48).</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his Programme from 1936 and his …………</span> __jumps. And temporally, it “exists only in the hours between when fight club starts and when fight club ends”__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Palahniuk 1997: 48)</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">This argument turns and outweighs their business – war machines against the state turn lines of flight into lines of death. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bülent </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diken</span></span>**,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> lecturer in Sociology at Lancaster University,</span><span class="cite"> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">and</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Carsten Bagge </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Laustsen</span></span>**,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ph.D. student at the University of Copenhagen, Department of Political Sciences, September </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2001</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, online: http://www.comp.lancs.ac.uk/sociology/… of the cut works in the film.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The second danger of the line of flight, ……….. line of flight, a test, which Fight Club does not pass (Ibid. 165). Let’s qualify this point by investigating the way the logic of the cut works in the film</span>
=====Case===== 
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their politics reproduces colonialism – Deleuze and Gautarri’s philosophy is grounded in a violent world ordering that entrenches colonialism.</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miller ‘3 </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Christopher R. Miller – Assoc. Prof. of English @ Yale, ““We Shouldn’t Judge Deleuze and Guattari”: A Response to Eugene Holland,” Research in African Literatures, 2003, Vol 34, No 3, p. 132-4]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Colonial and postcolonial studies have taught us, ………..of so many choices made in </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A Thousand Plateaus.</span>//
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative fails to produce lasting change and leads to violence and microfascism – 3 reasons</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Diken & Laustsen ‘1 </span></span>[Bulent Diken – lecturer in Sociology @ Lancaster Univ, and Carsten Bagge Laustsen – PhD student @ the Univ of Copenhagen Dept of Political Sciences, “Enjoy your fight! – “Fight Club” as a symptom of the Network Society,” Sept 2001]
The first danger is that <span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a line of </span>…………</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> investigating the way the logic of the cut works in the film.</span>
**Deleuze and Guattari’s alternative fails and leads to authoritarian oppression.**
**Barbrook 98** (Richard, coordinator of the Hypermedia Research Centre at the University of Westminster, 8/27, http://amsterdam.nettime.org/Lists-Archives/nettime-l-9808/msg00091.html)
Techno-nomad TJs are attracted ….in the fight against capitalism. 
**The alternativet is elitist and bound to end in a totalitarian state**
**Barbrook 98** (Richard, coordinator of the Hypermedia Research Centre at the University of Westminster, 8/27, http://amsterdam.nettime.org/Lists-Archives/nettime-l-9808/msg00091.html)
This elitism is a hallowed …….. Nietzschean Superman. 
===Round 3 Vs. Greenhill PP=== 

====Kadena Advantage==== 
1.Casualty Aversion
a. [[#LastEdit]]
[[#_Toc268457243]][[#_Toc268457172]][[#_Toc268457112]][[#_Toc268457045]][[#_Toc268456952]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Evocations of </span>__the <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">casualty-aversion</span> assertion …….. allies may require escalation to achieve success__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.50</span>

b. The perception of casualty aversion causes war and terrorism
[[#_Toc268457251]][[#_Toc268457180]][[#_Toc268457120]][[#_Toc268457053]][[#_Toc268456960]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jeffrey, teaches strategy at the Air war College, Parameters, June 22)</span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The</span> strategic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">consequences</span> of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> elite </span>__………. are a paper tiger__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">." (35)</span>
**China**
**China is not a military threat–lack of combined arms capability, disorganized command, and poor training undermine power projection**
**DOD REPORT 2000** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Report to Congress by the Secretary of Defense, June 23, "Annual Report on the Military Power of the People's Republic of China," http://www.newsmax.com/articles/?a=2000/8/7/160447)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Should China decide to attack Taiwan, Beijing's …………..</span> __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% fuchsia;">battlespace</span> likely <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% fuchsia;">will remain limited</span>.__
**China is not a military threat to the U.S.**
**PEÑA 2006** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles, senior fellow at the Independent Institute, a senior fellow with the Coalition for a Realistic Foreign Policy, a senior fellow with the George Washington University Homeland Security Policy Institute, an adviser to the Straus Military Reform Project, and an analyst for ……….</span> __equal the United States.__

====Defense Advantage==== 
BMD forces reactionary politics – Chinese modernization spills over to the rest of Asia causing Indo-Pak war.
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kumar 10</span></span> (A Vinod, Associate Fellow at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi. “The Dragon’s Shield: Intricacies of China’s BMD Capability”, [[http://www.idsa.in/system/files/IB_ChinasBMDCapability.pdf]], THE)
<span class="underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The greater intricacies of </span>………. strike from its rivals</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="boldunderline"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">This sets off a chain reaction in South Asia as Pakistan</span></span>
Indopak conflict leads to extinction
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fai 1</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Ghulam Nabi, Executive Director of the Washington-based Kashmiri American Council, “India Pakistan Summit and the Issue of Kashmir,” 7/8, Washington Times, http://www.pakistanlink.com/Letters/2001/July/13/05.html)</span>
The foreign policy of the United ………. Material/Cut-off Convention.
====Relations==== 
**The US-Japan relationship is on the rocks – forward deployment has created domestic issues in Japan**
**Auslin 10** (Michael, PhD & Director of Japan Studies and Resident Scholar in Foreign and Defense Policy Studies @ The American Enterprise Inst., 3/17/10, www.internationalrelations.house.gov/111/aus031710.pdf)
Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee, thank …. exporters such as China and South Korea. Numerous scandals and being out of touch with the voters also doomed the LDP and encouraged Japanese to cast their ballots for change.
**US troop presence deteriorates the US Japan security alliance – plan appeases the Japanese**
**Talmadge 6/22** (Eric, AP writer, 6/22/10, Sudden Link http://home.suddenlink.net/news/read.php?id=17818193&ps=1012&srce=news_class&action=2&lang=en&_LT=UNLC_WLNWU00L2_UNEWS&page=1)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Under the pact, promulgated 50 years ago Wednesday, </span>__……………….. point of view__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">," </span>__and stressed Japan must not forget the importance of developing its Asian relationships.__

**US Japan security alliance results in the development of NMD, and creates multiple scenarios for escalatory war**
**DeFilippo 6** <span style="color: black;">(Anthony, Professor of Sociology @ Lincoln University, Japan’s Nuclear Disarmament Policy and the U.S. Security Umbrella, Palgrave Macmillan, 2006, pgs. 25-27)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">Most of the strengthening of </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime; color: black;">the U.S.-Japan</span><span style="color: black;"> military ………. policies, Beijing also stressed that Washington’s decision ignores the advice of much of the international community. </span>__

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]