[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
Any Questions email kirstenblagg[at]gmail.com

==Spanos 1AC== 

Eyewitness In Fallujah By Jo **__Wilding writes in 2004__** , The Sunday Herald – UK April 18, 2004 © newsquest (sunday herald) limited. all rights reserved http://www.sundayherald.com/41338


Trucks, oil tankers and tanks … **__his actions in Iraq are right.__**



**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">America’s military occupation is an “errand in the wilderness” to impose a liberal capitalist democracy on the world. This has culminated in a total Pax Americana that masks its inherent violence, justifying genocidal missions that threaten the annihilation of the human species </span>**

**__<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Spanos</span>__**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;"> **__8__**</span> (William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, p. ix-x) PJ

In this book I contend … <span class="underline0">**the very idea of America.** </span>

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Especially post 9/11, America fulfills this perpetual need to complete its “errand in the wilderness” by eternally creating enemies and replicating to its exceptionalism. This binary between the “elect” American population and the population of “rogue states” has allowed for its global military domination in the name of security</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Spanos 5</span>__** Humanism and the Studia Humanitatis after 9/11/01: Rethinking the Anthropologos, William V. symploke, Volume 13, Numbers 1-2, 2005, pp. 219-262 (Article) Published by University of Nebraska Press DOI: 10.1353/sym.2006.0040<span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.leo.lib.unomaha.edu/journals/symploke/v013/13.1spanos.html| http://muse.jhu.edu.leo.lib.unomaha.edu/journals/symploke/v013/13.1spanos.html]]</span>

Aided and abetted by the willful … What is a Nation?”:


<span style="tab-stops: 78.75pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Moreover, America aims to infinitely reproduce the status quo by offering up a “collective sacrifice” of thousands of so-called “discardable populations” to war, genocide, enslavement, dehumanization, and oppression--all in the name of what it deems to be “peace”</span>**</span>

<span style="tab-stops: 78.75pt;"> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Santos </span>__****__3__** Boaventura de Sousa, Director of the Center for Social Studies at the University of Coimbra Issue #63, April<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html| http://bad.eserver.org/issues/2003/63/santos.html]]</span></span>

<span style="tab-stops: 78.75pt;"> According to Franz Hinkelammert … countries for four years.</span>


<span style="tab-stops: 78.75pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">The violence perpetuated by America’s discourse is nothing short of genocidal - from the bombing of Dresden to Hiroshima to Vietnam. Yet these apparent contradictions to America’s peace-keeping narrative are utterly ignored, even rationalized in its truth discourse</span>**</span>

<span style="tab-stops: 78.75pt;"> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Spanos</span>__** **__8__** (William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, p. 10) PJ</span>

<span style="tab-stops: 78.75pt;"> Indeed, it is the fundamental … collapsed in the 1980s (EH, xxi).</span>

**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">Only an ontological and political de-centering can counter the imperial practice of America—a perspective must recognize the inherent brutality of American conduct instead of characterizing its devastation as mere “mistakes”. An abyssal sense of exile from the __entire__ discourse of America’s imperial ideology</span>**

<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;"> **__Spanos 8__**</span> (William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, p. 23) PJ

Similarly, I submit, American … ” in the name of “America.”
=== === 
**Thus The United States Federal Government should not occupy all topically designated countries.**

**<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;">As students and scholars, we accept that we cannot politically revoke the military policies of the United States, but through the advocacy of the 1AC we must rethink and change. This act of individual resistance and the judge’s affirmation haunts the American War Machine and fractures imperialist truth discourse. </span>**

<span style="font-size: 14.0pt;"> **__Spanos 8__** </span>(William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, p. 23) PJ

**__There is__** a great … forced immigration.

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Rather than wage war against the American war machine, we take the position of the Viet Cong insurgents. By slowly ambushing and frustrating it individually, we can finally bring the machine down.</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Spanos 8</span>__** (William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, p. 23) PJ

It is the memory… first postmodern, war)



**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Finally, debate must be the arena in which we struggle against hegemonic conceptions of power </span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Spanos </span>__****__93__** (William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, The End of Education: Towards Posthumanism, p. 196) PJ

In insisting that the theoretical practice … not for knowledge’s own sake.



==**<span style="color: black;">Narratives 1AC</span>**== 

**<span style="color: black;">The United States pursues its errand in the wilderness with renewed passion. We have already civilized the native “savages”, “saved” the European nations and established our role as global hegemon. We have vanquished the “evils of communism” and <span style="background: white;">now</span> embark to rid the world of terrorists. The ghosts of the past are silenced to make way for a worldwide liberal capitalist democracy. </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">But now we call you to bear witness to the ghosts, the specters of the American exceptionalist machine, to listen to their stories.</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">First, the witness of Jo Wilding in Fallujah after US Marine Corps launched “Operation Vigilant Resolve” to quell protest against foreign occupation</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Eyewitness In Fallujah By Jo Wilding, The Sunday Herald – UK April 18, 2004 © newsquest (sunday herald) limited. all rights reserved http://www.sundayherald.com/41338 </span>




**<span style="color: black;">The memories of John Burnett as he recalls Cherokee removal to make way for gold-seekers</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Burnett, John G. "A soldier recalls the Trail of Tears." //Learn NC//. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, n.d. Web. 3 Jan. 2011. <http://www.learnnc.org/lp/editions/nchist-newnation/4532>.//Birthday Story of Private John G. Burnett, Captain Abraham McClellan’s Company, 2nd Regiment, 2nd Brigade, Mounted Infantry, Cherokee Indian Removal, 1838–39.//</span>


**<span style="color: black;">The writings of Michael Herr after America’s literal remaking of Vietnam</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Herr, Michael. //Dispatches//. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1977. Print.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">The revelation of William Spanos after Allied firebombing of Dresden during World War 2</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Spanos, William V. //In the Neighborhood of Zero: A World War II Memoir//. N.p.: Board of Regents of the University of Nebraska, 2010. Print.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">The zero zone is where we question the past and fracture the dominant truth discourse of America.</span>**


**<span style="color: black;">However, America has now silenced the voices of the oppressed because of their potential to fracture its truth discourse. America attempts to heal the wound created by these specters through the next war, the next enemy, the next victory, continuing its path of falsely benign domination, its errand in the wilderness. Unless we listen to the specters of past and present, this American momentum will continue to destabilize the world and threaten its annihilation.</span>**

**__<span style="color: black;">Spanos</span>__** **__<span style="color: black;">8</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;"> (William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, p. ix-x) PJ</span>


**<span style="color: black;">To bear witness to the narratives of the specters left in the wake of the warpath means to rethink the idea of America. Our rethinking places us in the view of the interested, no longer viewing from above from the helicopters of Vietnam, the drones of Iraq, the fire-bombing of Dresden. Rather, the affirmation of these stories creates a view from in-the-midst of the American war machine. Only at this zero zone are we able to break from the ignorance of the workings of imperialism and fracture the American war machine. </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">It is here we affirm: The United States Federal Government should remove all military and police presence from</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Korea| **South Korea**]]**<span style="color: black;">,</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japan| **Japan**]]**<span style="color: black;">,</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Afghanistan| **Afghanistan**]]**<span style="color: black;">,</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuwait| **Kuwait**]]**<span style="color: black;">,</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iraq| **Iraq**]]**<span style="color: black;">, and</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turkey| **Turkey**]]**<span style="color: black;">.</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">We do not tell the story of statistics or studies, but of those who stood on the ground and watched the fire rain down. </span>**

**<span style="color: black;">In Iraq with Wilding</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Eyewitness In Fallujah By Jo Wilding, The Sunday Herald – UK April 18, 2004 © newsquest (sunday herald) limited. all rights reserved http://www.sundayherald.com/41338 </span>
||   ||



**<span style="color: black;">On the trail of tears with Burnett </span>**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Burnett, John G. "A soldier recalls the Trail of Tears." //Learn NC//. The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, n.d. Web. 3 Jan. 2011. <http://www.learnnc.org/lp/editions/nchist-newnation/4532>.//Birthday Story of Private John G. Burnett, Captain Abraham McClellan’s Company, 2nd Regiment, 2nd Brigade, Mounted Infantry, Cherokee Indian Removal, 1838–39.//</span>


**<span style="color: black;">In Vietnam with Herr </span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Herr, Michael. //Dispatches//. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1977. Print.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">In Dresden with Spanos</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Spanos, William V. //In the Neighborhood of Zero: A World War II Memoir//. N.p.: Board of Regents of the University of Nebraska, 2010. Print.</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Here in the zero-zone, the interregnum, the unseen, there is a choice to be made. We can return to our vision from the hovering helicopters, the war diagrams, the radar screens and withdraw shuddering from the horror of reality--or we can confront the truth of this war machine, living in the midst of the ghosts, the flames, the </span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">bombs, the graves... and affirm.</span>**
==Narrative 1AC (Full Text)== 
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">The United States pursues its errand in the wilderness with renewed passion. We have already civilized the native “savages”, “saved” the European nations and established our role as global hegemon. We have vanquished the “evils of communism” and <span style="background: white;">now</span> embark to rid the world of terrorism. The ghosts of the past are silenced to make way for a worldwide liberal capitalist democracy. </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">But now we call you to bear witness to the ghosts, the specters of the American exceptionalist machine, to listen to their stories.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">First, the witness of Jo Wilding in Fallujah after US Marine Corps launched “Operation Vigilant Resolve” to quell protest against foreign occupation</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Eyewitness In Fallujah By Jo Wilding, The Sunday Herald – UK April 18, 2004 © newsquest (sunday herald) limited. all rights reserved http://www.sundayherald.com/41338 </span>
||   ||


<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">Trucks, oil tankers and tanks are burning on the highway east to Fallujah. A stream of boys and men goes to and from a lorry that's not burnt, stripping it bare. We turn on to the back roads through Abu Ghraib, past the vehicles full of people and a few possessions heading the other way, past the improvised refreshment posts along the way where boys throw food through the windows into the bus for us and for the people still inside Fallujah. The bus is following a car with the nephew of a local sheikh and a guide who has contacts with the mujahidin and has cleared this with them. I'm on the bus because a journalist I know turned up at my door at about 11 at night telling me things were desperate in Fallujah. He said aid vehicles and the media were being turned away. There was some medical aid that needed to go in and there was a better chance of it getting there with Westerners to get through the American checkpoints. The rest of the way was secured with the armed groups who control the roads we'd travel on. We'd take in the medical supplies, see what else we could do to help and then use the bus to bring out people who needed to leave. When we arrive, we pile the stuff in the corridor of a clinic, a private doctor's surgery treating people for free since air strikes destroyed the town's main hospital. Another has been improvised in a garage. There's no anaesthetic. The blood bags are in a drinks fridge and the doctors warm them up under the hot tap in a toilet. Screaming women come in, praying, slapping their chests and faces. Maki, a consultant and acting director of the clinic, takes me to the bed where a child of about 10 is lying with a bullet wound to the head. A smaller child is being treated for a similar injury in the next bed. //A US sniper hit them and their grandmother as they left their home to flee Fallujah.// The lights go out, the fan stops and in the sudden quiet someone holds up the flame of a cigarette lighter for the doctor to carry on operating by. The electricity to the town has been cut off for days and when the generator runs out of petrol, they just have to manage till it comes back on. //The children are not going to live.// I am ushered into a room where an old woman has just had an abdominal bullet wound stitched , a white flag still clutched in her hand. She tells the same story: "I was leaving my home to go to Baghdad when I was hit by a US sniper." Some of the town is held by US marines, other parts by the local fighters. Their homes are in the US controlled area and they are adamant that the snipers were US marines. Snipers are causing not just carnage but also the paralysis of the ambulance and evacuation services. The biggest hospital after the main one was bombed is in US territory and cut off from the clinic by snipers. The ambulance has been repaired four times after bullet damage</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> Bodies are lying in the streets</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">because nobody can go to collect them without being shot. We get into the back of the pick-up to go past the snipers to do what we can for sick and injured people. The men we pass wave us on when the driver explains where we're going. The silence is ferocious in the no-man's-land between the mujahidin territory and the marines' line beyond the next wall; no birds, no music, no indication that anyone is still living until a gate opens opposite and a woman comes out and points. We edge along to the hole in the wall where we can see a car, spent mortar shells around it. Feet are visible, crossed, in the gutter. I think he's dead already. The snipers are visible too, two of them on the corner of the building. As yet I think they can't see us so we need to let them know we're there. "Hello," I bellow at the top of my voice. "Can you hear me? We are a medical team. We want to remove this wounded man. Is it OK for us to come out and get him? Can you give us a signal that it's OK?" I think I hear a shout back. Not sure, I call again. "Hello." "Yeah." "Can we come out and get him?" "Yeah." Slowly, our hands up, we go out. The black cloud that rises to greet us carries with it a hot, sour smell. Solidified, his legs are heavy. A Kalashnikov is attached by sticky blood to his hair and hand and we don't want it with us, so I put my foot on it as I pick up his shoulders and his blood falls out through the hole in his back. We heave him into the pick-up and try to outrun the flies. He's barefoot, no more than 20, in imitation Nike trousers and a football shirt. The orderlies from the clinic pull the young fighter off the pick-up and take him straight up the ramp into the makeshift morgue. We wash the blood off our hands and get in the ambulance. There are people trapped in the other hospital who need to go to Baghdad. Siren screaming, lights flashing, we huddle on the floor of the ambulance, passports and ID cards held out the windows. We pack it with people, one with his chest taped together and a drip, another on a stretcher, legs jerking violently so I have to hold them down as we wheel him out. The next morning the doctors at the clinic look haggard. None has slept more than a couple of hours a night for a week. One has had only eight hours' sleep in the last seven days, missing the funerals of his brother and aunt because he was needed at the hospital. //"The dead we cannot help,"// he says. "I must worry about the injured." We go out again in the pick-up. There are some sick people close to the marines' line who need evacuating.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Nobody dares come out of their house because the marines are on top of the buildings shooting at anything that moves</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;"> Saad fetches us a white flag and tells us not to worry, he's checked and secured the road, no mujahidin will fire at us, that peace is upon us. Saad is 11, his face covered with a keffiyeh, but for his bright brown eyes, his AK47 almost as tall as he is</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">. We shout to the soldiers</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">, holding up a flag with a red crescent sprayed on it. Two come over. We tell them</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> we need to get some sick people from the houses. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">Thirteen women and children are still inside, in one room, without food and water for the last 24 hours. "We're going to be going through soon clearing the houses," the senior soldier says. "What does that mean, clearing the houses?" I ask. "Going into every one searching for weapons." He's checking his watch, can't tell me what will start when, of course, but there's going to be air strikes in support. "If you're going to do this you gotta do it soon."</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> In the street there's a man, face down</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">, in a white dishdasha,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> a small red stain on his back. As we roll him on to the stretcher, my </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">colleague Dave's</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> hand goes through his chest, through the cavity left by the bullet that entered so neatly through his back and blew his heart out. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">There's no weapon in his hand.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> When we arrive, his sons come out, crying, </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">shouting.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> "He was unarmed,"</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">they scream__.__ </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">"He just went out the gate and they shot him." </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">None of them has dared come out since.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> Nobody had dared come to get his body, horrified, terrified, forced to violate the traditions of treating the body immediately.</span>__** **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">The people seem to pour out of the houses now in the hope we can escort them safely out of the line of fire, kids, women, men anxiously asking us whether they can all go, or only the women and children. A </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">young </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">marine tells us that men of fighting age can't leave. What's fighting age? Anything under 45. No lower limit.</span>__**



**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">The memories of Ellis Waterkiller as he recalls the Trail of Tears </span>**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">Interview with Mr. Ellis Waterkiller Available online: </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://anpa.ualr.edu/digital_library/Family%20Stories%20from%20the%20Trail%20of%20Tears.htm#_blank|http://anpa.ualr.edu/digital_library/Family%20Stories%20from%20the%20Trail%20of%20Tears.htm#Overview]]</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;">Mr. Waterkiller </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">was born in the Cookson Hills of Eastern Oklahoma, near White Oak School, in Cherokee County, Oklahoma and now lives six miles east of Fort Gibson, Oklahoma, near the present Perkins School in Muskogee County, Oklahoma, on highway #62. He</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;"> is a full blood Cherokee </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Indian</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;"> and 73 years old. All of his known relatives were buried in </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">the Cookson Hills of</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;"> eastern Oklahoma, near the White Oak School. No markers mark their graves. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">Father - Waterkiller - Born North Carolina (year unknown) Died 1870. Mother - Nancy Parsons Waterkiller, born Cookson Hills 1873 and died 1890. Grandfather - (First name unknown) last name, Parsons. Born North Carolina, (date unknown) Died 1840. Grandmother - Sallie Parsons, born North Carolina (date unknown) Died 1885. Migration Don't know much about Father's people. Grandma (Parsons) tell me lot, like I tell you. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;">Grandpa and Grandma leave North Carolina, in old country</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">, come Georgia, that old country too, stay there year. . . . </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;">1837, soldiers drive um West. . . . Grandpa and Grandma no want come. Soldiers say go or kill you. Stick bayonet in you. They get things one night, skillet, pot, dishes, clothes, bedclothes too. . . . got dish grandma bring. I eat beans out em, I boy. It was an old piece of pottery, highly polished. Bowl was fashioned with handles, handles broken off, but designs on it were beautiful. See bowl, is over hundred years old. Next day soldiers drive um out. Easy first day. Make soldiers feel good. Every day worse. Just drive um like cattle. Grandma </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">say she</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;"> walk, grandpa walk</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;"> too </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;">or soldiers run bayonets through um. They walk, wade creeks to chin, lots mud some places. Cross rivers in canoes. Soldiers save canoes, sometimes hollow logs, made um boats, go cross river. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Yuh, soldiers have wagons.</span>



**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">The writings of Michael Herr after America’s literal remaking of Vietnam</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Herr, Michael. //Dispatches//. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1977. Print.</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">There was a map of Vietnam on the wall of my apartment in Saigon </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">and some nights, coming back late to the city, I’d lie out on my bed and look at it, too tired to do anything more than just get my boots off. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">That map was a marvel, especially now that it wasn’t real anymore. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">For one thing,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> it was very old. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">It had been left there years before by another tenant, probably a Frenchman, since the map had been made in Paris.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">The paper had buckled in its frame after years in the wet Saigon heat</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, laying a kind of veil over the countries it depicted. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">[And] Vietnam was divided into its older territories</span>__****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;"> of</span>__** **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Tonkin, Annam, and Cochin China, and to the west past Laos and Cambodia sat Siam,</span>__** **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">a kingdom.</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> That’s old, I’d tell visitors, that’s a really old map. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">If dead ground could come back and haunt you the way dead people do, they’d have to been able to mark my map CURRENT and burn the ones they’d been using since ’64, but count on it, nothing like that was going to happen. It was late ’67 now, even the most detailed maps didn’t reveal much anymore; reading them was like trying to read the faces of the Vietnamese, </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">and that was</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> like trying to read the wind. We knew</span>__** **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">that the uses of most information were flexible, different pieces of ground told different stories to different people. We also knew that for years now there had been no country here but the war. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The Mission was always telling us about VC unites being engaged and wiped out and then reappearing about a month later in full strength, there was nothing very spooky about that, but when we went up against his terrain we usually took it definitively, and even if we didn’t keep it you could always see that we’d at least been there. At the end of my first week in-country I meet an information officer in the headquarters of the 25th division at Cu Chi who showed me his map and then from his chopper what they’d done to the Ho Bo Woods, the vanished Ho Bo woods, taken off by giant Rome plows and chemicals and long, slow fire, wasting hundreds of acres of cultivated plantation and wild forest alike, “denying the enemy valuable resources and cover.”It had been part of his job for nearly a year now to tell people about that operation; correspondents, touring congressmen, movie stars, corporation presidents, staff officers from half the armies in the world, and he still couldn’t get over it. It seemed to be keeping him young, his enthusiasm made you feel that even the letters he wrote home to his wife were full of it, it really showed what you could do if you had the know-how and the hardware. And if in the months following that operation incidences of enemy activity in the larger area of War Zone C had increased “significantly”, and American losses had doubled and then doubled again, none of it was happening in any damn Ho Bo Woods, you’d better believe I At the end of my first week in-country I meet an information officer in the headquarters of the 25th division at Cu Chi who showed me his map and then from his chopper what they’d done to the Ho Bo Woods, the vanished Ho Bo woods, taken off by giant Rome plows and chemicals and long, slow fire, wasting hundreds of acres of cultivated plantation and wild forest alike, “denying the enemy valuable resources and cover.”</span>




















**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">The revelation of William Spanos after Allied firebombing of Dresden during World War 2</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Spanos, William V. //In the Neighborhood of Zero: A World War II Memoir//. N.p.: Board of Regents of the University of Nebraska, 2010. Print.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">On both those days, I recall,</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">our Kommando was assigned the task of searching for bodies that had perished under the debris </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">of the collapsed buildings of a densely populated area</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> of the inner city</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">that, because of the smoldering fires, had not been penetrable by fire brigades, rescue squads, or salvage teams. This entailed moving the rubble—mounds of jagged blocks of masonry, twisted steel girders, brown stone cornices and disfigured statuary, clumps of shattered bricks, shards of broken glass, broken furniture, charred wood—that blocked the entrances and exits of the city’s disintegrated buildings. It was not only backbreaking labor, especially for us prisoners of war, who were weak from malnutrition, but precarious as well, because moving one piece of scrap wedged in a mound of rubble might have unleashed a torrent of heavy debris capable of burning the searchers alive. My group, which consisted of five prisoners, had cleared a path from what seemed to have been a street to an entrance of a roofless structure open to the heavy dull sky that may have been a bank or an office building of five or six stories and had entered the main interior, whose floor had caved in by a bomb blast or maybe under the pressure of the vacuum created by the firestorm. Many of the huge fragments of the tiled floor were tipped upward, some downward toward the basement. Our guards ordered us into that fragile pit to search for bodies. They threw a rope down along one of the more sturdy fragments, and we, one at a time, lowered ourselves ever so carefully, and in numbing fear, down to the subterranean level. We found a large chamber, heavy with the acrid smell of melted metal, the floor of which was covered by several inches of ash, dust, and debris. There was, however, no sign of life or death. On the opposite side there were a number of broken wooden benches and a sort of counter, suggesting that the chamber had served as a lounge of some sort or, more likely, as an air raid shelter. In the middle of the wall, between the row of benches, a huge jagged hole had been blasted open somehow or other. As we walked slowly and cautiously toward the entrance, we smelled the now common but still intolerable smell of death and putrefaction. At the opening we found a narrow underground corridor about twenty-five yards long. The searchers who had been given flashlights by our guards leading the war, we walked single file into the darkness. Suddenly the leader of the column stopped, exclaiming in horror, “Jesus Christ Almighty! Look at this!” We crowded in. The tunnel opened up into another smaller room. Sitting there on the floor, huddled together, we saw, in the lurid light of the flashlights, ten or twelve corpses of various ages and sexes, shriveled to their bones, their skins in the last stages of decomposition. They were all dressed as if they were about to go home after a day’s work or out on the town, but their clothes seemed to be many sizes larger than their withered bodies. It was a grotesque tableau vivant. What a horrible death! I thought, though I couldn’t tell from their disfigured appearance how they had died, except that it had been sudden and instantaneous. I guessed that it had been a combination of asphyxiation and a wave of unimaginably hot air (carbon monoxide), not fire, caused by the firestorm triggered by the incendiary bombs that had destroyed the city. We sent one of the search groups back out to report our discovery to the German guards. Returning a few minutes later with several strands of heavy rope that the guards had passed down to him, he told us to harness each corpses to the ropes so it could be dragged up out of its tomb for burial. One by one, over the next hour or so, we roped the dead, who after the appropriate signal was given, were then, aided by the searchers all the way, slowly pulled out of the tunnel from above. I was positioned at the bottom of the diagonal shard of concrete floor on which we laid the cadavers. By the time each had arrived, it had been mangled beyond recognition by the gruesome ride across the jagged floor. One especially got to me, an old man, fetid beyond endurance, whose shrunken head, thick gold-rimmed glasses dangling from one charred ear, was adorned with thick disheveled gray hair like a lion’s mane. In my mind this disintegrating skeletal carcass had been a scholar—one of Plato’s philosopher kings my beautiful Latin teacher used to rave about in high school. By the time all the bodies had been dragged up into the light of day and stacked in a neat pile, it was getting dark. Like us, our guards, too, were sick to death of this ghoulish task and eager for respite. Not long afterward, having failed to find a “hearse” to remove the bodies to a graveyard for burial, we were assembled for the march back to the sawmill in Rabenau. The bodies could wait until the next day. They were dead, after all. As we crossed over the bridge spanning the beautiful Elbe, I looked back on the devastated city, still burning in some places. The sky, heavy with a thick layer of smoke, was an infernal red. “’Unreal City…,’” I thought with a shudder, remembering with great bitterness and sorrow the poem by T.S. Eliot that was so fashionable to quote when, a thousand years before, I was in high school. The second incident occurred in the late afternoon of the following day. We had spent the entire morning and part of the afternoon at the difficult task of clearing debris at another site in the city not too far from the building in which we had found the corpses the day before. Under the relentlessly vengeful gaze of the German guards, our minds had not been given any respite from their abuse or our bodies from the forced labor they imposed on us. All through the day we lifted heavy broken stones, masonry, tangled steel, wooden beams, fallen statuary, and carried the wreckage to designated places next to previously cleared streets, where, like the piled-up bodies the day before, it would eventually be carted away to some unknown destination. To make matters worse, we were also verbally lashed by a number of German civilians, survivors of the firebombing, who apparently had lived in that area. Having pleaded futilely with the officials overseeing the site for permission to search their former homes in the hope of salvaging whatever remained of their belongings, they were taking their rage, their frustration, their despair, their sorrow, out on us. Cordoned off from the salvage area, they shouted abuses and on several occasions threw stones at us. By that time I was so exhausted that my arms and my legs were trembling, and my head was spinning. I thought my body would give way at any moment. But even more painful was the excruciating sense of degradation I felt under the justified assault—the tongue-lashing, whose sting on the skin of my mind hurt as much as a whip on the skin of my body—of both our guards and the angry civilians. I knew I didn’t deserve this demoralizing fate, yet I also knew I did. We were, after all, not innocent civilians but comrades of the British and Americans who had reduced this city to a wasteland and had murdered virtually its entire population. There was no reprieve, no way out: the dreadful feeling, once more, of being caught inside an eternal time warp in which fire and smoke and ruin, guilt and crisis and spiritual turbulence, were everlasting, a zero zone, like that dreaded hell—//oi kolasis//—my mother told us about as children to remind us of where we would go if we did not obey God’s Ten Commandments, but that we had soon come to realize was just a cautionary myth. It was late in the afternoon. Up to that point our Kommando had found no bodies. It seemed as if the occupants of the buildings to which we were clearing a way had escaped to another underground bomb shelter. Many parts of the city, we had gathered from our experience on the previous day and the conversations between guards and civilians we had overheard, were connected by network of tunnels. Somewhere in that maze, no doubt, they had been incinerated or blown into oblivion by the hot turbulent winds of the firestorm.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">While lifting a large fragment of wooden beam </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">that lay diagonally across two large pieces of masonry that were holding each other up,</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">we spotted the hand of a child </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">sticking out of the V-shaped space between them</span>**<span style="color: black;">. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">A gold ring adorned one of the delicate fingers, which were clenched in a fist.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> Two of the searchers gently pulled </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">one of the pieces of</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> jagged masonry aside. There</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">,</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> curled up in a fetal position on a mound of debris, was a young girl, about twelve or thirteen years old</span>__****<span style="color: black;">. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">She was wearing an unbuttoned black coat and a red velvet dress opened at the neck. A long gold necklace dangled across one of her small adolescent breasts. She had long dark blonde hair pleated and rolled up into a bun. Her face was fair and exquisitely beautiful</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">.</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> She seemed to be asleep</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, like the princess in the storybook waiting to be brought back to life by the kiss of a prince.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> One of the searchers picked her hand up to take her pulse and after a few seconds dropped it. She was dead</span>__****<span style="color: black;">. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Because her body was still intact, we guessed that she had died very recently.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> On seeing the inert body of this beautiful young girl, whom death had not allowed the time to mature into a woman, I was filled with profound sorrow. How many more like this innocent child has suffered the same</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">inexplicable and</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> ruthlessly violent death? But then I realized that there was something that didn’t ring true about this emotion. It was too general, too sentimental, too dependent on storytelling. It made a personified Death the always immune murderer of the countless innocent children </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">like this one who had suffered terrible deaths during the firebombing of the city,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> whereas in reality the murders were committed by the </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">British and</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> American bombers who had been sent </span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">on and guide</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> through this mission by the Allied military commanders hovering over their map of Europe in an operations room a thousand and more kilometers away, pushing model aircraft</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">—the target of their deadly game, Dresden—</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">with long cue sticks toward their doomed destination. My sorrow became contaminated with anger over the utter senselessness</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">—</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">and the incredible insensitivity</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">—</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">of these callous perpetrators of this very real apocalypse</span>__****<span style="color: black;">. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Suddenly, without premeditation</span>**<span style="color: black;">,</span>****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> I picked up the dead girl in my arms in a wild protective gesture and then, awakened by the utter futility of my impulsive act, felt at a loss about what to do with my lifeless burden</span>__****<span style="color: black;">.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> I looked around at my comrades, at our guards, at the smoldering waste of the city in a state of turbulent confusion. Then I looked at the girl’s face. Its features—fair, delicate, oval shaped, high cheekbones, catlike eyes, and petite—bore an uncanny resemblance to Kathryn.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">For an instance all the borders that separated and distinguished “us” from “them” were down. It seemed like the end of something, the reduction of Everything to nothing, the All to a “zero zone,”</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">but also, in a way—it was so faint an impulse—that I could not fathom then, a beginning. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">And without warning I began to sob uncontrollably as I rocked the dead girl cradled in my arms in the midst of those ruins</span>__****<span style="color: black;">. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Our German guards and my comrades were taken aback momentarily by my erratic, not to say unmanly, behavior and in that state of surprise said nothing until my crying had run its course. We were, I can imagine, a grotesque still life—I, holding the dead girl in my arms staring our vacantly beyond our immediate desolate location; the motley German //Volksturm// guards, uncertain about what to do; the //Kommando// of American prisoners, embarrassed at my emotional breakdown (retrospectively, I was grateful that Tex was not one of them); the venerable city below a sickly grayish yellow pall of smoke lying in ashes all around us as far as our eyes could see. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Then </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">suddenly, without warning</span>**<span style="color: black;">,</span>****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> the silence was broken by shouts</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">: </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">“Es ist Verboten! Est ist Verboten! Nein! Nein!” They were coming from a small group of German policemen standing some distance away from the Kommando on this side of an area across the street that had been cordoned off to prevent civilians from entering the salvage and search area. No sooner than we heard these commands</span>**<span style="color: black;">,</span>****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> I found myself</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">the dead girl’s limp body still in my arms,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> face to face with a middle-aged woman </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">who, unseen by the policemen until it was too late, had slipped through the roped-off area and come to where we were standing. Her long blonde hair was disheveled. She was</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> wearing </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">a long black, mud-caked silk skirt and</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">an oversized Wehrmacht officer’s jacket buttoned up to the neck, the swastikas above the chest pocket somehow glowing. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In her right hand she was holding a red flower in a gesture that seemed absurdly like an offering.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Her black eyes, ringed by the shadows of fatigue, were blazing</span>__****<span style="color: black;">. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">She looked piercingly into mine</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">. </span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Without saying a single word, she spit, full force, into my face. She then grabbed the dead girl out of my arms. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">By this time two of the policemen had arrived at the scene. One rescued the dead body of the child; the other took hold of the flailing woman and led her away. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">With that acute sting of her fiery spit, the last vestige of my identity as an American—the image by which I had hitherto lived my life—curdled up and withered into ash. In that instant</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">—</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">it was a decisive-limit situation</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 5pt;">—</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">I too had become a zero zone. </span>__**





**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">The zero zone is where we question the past and fracture the dominant truth discourse of America.</span>**

**<span style="color: black;">Spanos explains:</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">.Responding to</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">my repeated use of the phrase zero zone to characterize the “place” that was Dresden after the apocalyptic firebombing, </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">he went on to say that, as he heard it</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">, </span>****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">that zero zone, which was the unspeakable consequence of the firebombing, was also</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">and because of that__,__</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> a zone in which the social bond as I had been taught to feel it by “America,” had been broken. It was this “revelation,” </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">he suggested,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> that enabled me to respond the way I did to the dead of Dresden, the “figures in the rubble who had been reduced to nonexistence,” and turned that burned-out nonplace into “the neighborhood of zero.</span>__**






**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">However, America has now silenced the voices from the zero zone because of their potential to fracture its truth discourse. America attempts to heal the wound created by these specters through the next war, the next enemy, the next victory, continuing its path of falsely benign domination, its errand in the wilderness. Unless we listen to the specters of past and present, this American momentum will continue to destabilize the world and threaten its annihilation.</span>**

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Spanos</span>__** **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">8</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> (William V, Professor of English at Binghamton University, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, p. ix-x) PJ</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In this book I contend that </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">the consequence of America's</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">intervention and conduct of the </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">war in Vietnam was the self-destruction of the ontological, cultural, and political foundations on which America </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">had perennially</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">justified its "benign" self-image and global practice from the time of the Puritan "errand in the wilderness." </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">In the aftermath of the defeat of the American Goliath by a small insurgent army, the "specter- of Vietnam—by which I mean, among other things, the violence, bordering on genocide, America perpetrated against an -Other" that refused to accommodate itself to its mission in the wilderness of Vietnam—came to haunt America as a contra diction that menaced the legitimacy of its perennial self-representation as the exceptionalist and redeemer nation. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">In the aftermath of</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Vietnam</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">War, the dominant culture in </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">America </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(including the government, the media. Hollywood. and even educational institutions) </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">mounted a</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">massive </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">campaign to "forget Vietnam</span>__****<span style="color: black;">." </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">This relentless recuperative momentum to lay the ghost of that particular war culminated in the metamorphosis of an ear lier general will </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">to "heal the wound</span>__**__<span style="color: black;">"</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> inflicted on the American national psyche, into the "Vietnam syndrome"</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">; that is, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">it transformed a healthy debate over the idea of America into </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">a rational</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> neurosis</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. This monumentalist initiative was aided by a series of historical events between 1989 and 1991 that deflected the American people's attention away from the divisive memory of the Vietnam War and were represented by the dominant culture as manifestations of the global triumph of "America's: Tiananmen Square, the implosion of the Soviet Union, and the first Gulf War. </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">This “forgetting” of the actual history of the Vietnam War,</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> represented in this book by Graham Greene's The Quiet American, Philip Caputo's A Rumor of War, and Tim O'Brien's Going After Cacciato hand many other novels, memoirs, and films to which I refer paren thetically, contributed to the rise of neoconservatism and the religious right to power in the United States. And it</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> __provided the context for the renewal of America's exceptionalist errand in the global wilderness__</span>****<span style="color: black;">, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">now un derstood, as the conservative think tank the Project (or the New American Century put it long before the invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq, as the preserving and perpetuation of the Pax Americana</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">. Whatever </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">vestigial </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">memory </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">of the Vietnam War </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">remained</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> after this turn </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">seemed to be</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> decisively </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">interred</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> with Al Qaeda's attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">on September 11</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, 2001. Completely</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> immune to dissent</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, the confident American government</span>**<span style="color: black;">,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> under President George W. Bush and his neoconservative intellectual deputies—and with the virtually total support of the America media—resumed its errand in the global wilderness that had been interrupted by the specter of Vietnam.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Armed with</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">a resurgence of self-righteous</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> indignation and</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> exceptionalist</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> pride, the American government</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, indifferent to the reser vations of the "Old World," unilaterally </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">invaded Afghanistan and</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, then, after falsifying intelligence reports about Saddam Hussein's nuclear ca pability, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Iraq</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">with the intention</span>__****<span style="color: black;">, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">so reminiscent of its (failed) attempts in Vietnam</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">, </span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">of imposing American</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">-style</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> democracy on these alien cultures</span>__****<span style="color: black;">. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The early representation by the media of</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">the immediately successful </span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">"</span>__//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">shock and awe"</span>// **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">acts of </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">arrogant </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">violence in the name of "civilization" was euphoric</span>__****<span style="color: black;">.</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> They were, it was said, compelling evidence not only of the recuperation of American consensus, but also of the rejuvenation of America's national identity</span>**<span style="color: black;">. </span>****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">But as immediate "victory" turned into an occupation of a world un willing to be occupied</span>__****<span style="color: black;">,</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> and the American peace into an insurgency that now verges on becoming a civil war</span>**<span style="color: black;">, </span>****__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">the specter of Vietnam</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, like the Hydra in the story of Hercules, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">began to reassert itself: the unidentifiability </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">or invisibility</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> of the enemy, their refusal to be answerable to the American narrative, </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">quagmire,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> military victories that accomplished nothing</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, search and destroy missions, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">body counts, the alienation of allies, moral irresolution</span>__**__<span style="color: black;">,</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> and so on</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">. It is the memory of this "Vietnam"—this specter that refuses to be accommodated to the imperial exceptionalist discourse</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> of post-Vietnam America—</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">that</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> my book is intended to bring back to presence</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> By retriev ing a number of representative works that bore acute witness, even against themselves, to the singularity of a war America waged against a people seeking liberation from colonial rule and by reconstellating them into the post-911 occasion, such a project </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">can </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">contribute a new dimen sion not only to that shameful decade of American history, but also, and more important, to our understanding of the deeply backgrounded ori gins of America's "war on terror" in the aftermath of the Al Qaeda at tacks. Indeed, it is my ultimate purpose in this book to provide directives for </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">resist</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">ing</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> a</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">n American </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">momentum that threatens to destabilize the en tire planet, if not to annihilate the human species itself, and also for rethinking the very idea of America.</span>__**


**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">To bear witness to the narratives of the specters left in the wake of the warpath means to rethink the idea of America. Our rethinking places us in the view of the interested, no longer viewing from above from the helicopters of Vietnam, the drones of Iraq, the fire-bombing of Dresden. Rather, the affirmation of these stories creates a view from in-the-midst of the American war machine. Only at this zero zone are we able to break from the ignorance of the workings of imperialism and fracture the American war machine. </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">It is here we affirm: The United States Federal Government should remove all military and police presence from</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Korea| **South Korea**]]**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">,</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Japan| **Japan**]]**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">,</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Afghanistan| **Afghanistan**]]**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">,</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kuwait| **Kuwait**]]**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">,</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iraq| **Iraq**]]**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">, and</span>**[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turkey| **Turkey**]]**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">.</span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">We do not tell the story of statistics or studies, but of those who stood on the ground and watched the fire rain down. </span>**

**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">In Iraq with Wilding</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Eyewitness In Fallujah By Jo Wilding, The Sunday Herald – UK April 18, 2004 © newsquest (sunday herald) limited. all rights reserved http://www.sundayherald.com/41338 </span>
||   ||
**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">A man wants to use his police car to carry</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> some of the people, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">a couple of elderly ones </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">who can't walk far,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> the smallest children. They creep from their houses, huddle by the wall, follow us out, </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">their hands up too,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> and walk up the street clutching babies, bags, each other. The bus is going to leave, taking the injured people back to Baghdad, a man with burns, a woman who was shot in the jaw and shoulder by a sniper, several others</span>__****<span style="color: black;">. </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 6pt;">The way back is tense, the bus almost getting stuck in a dip in the sand, people escaping in anything, even piled on the trailer of a tractor, lines of cars and pick ups and buses ferrying people to the dubious sanctuary of Baghdad, lines of men in vehicles queuing to get back into the city having got their families to safety, either to fight or to help evacuate more people. The driver takes a different road so that suddenly we're not following the lead car and we're on a road that's controlled by a different armed group than the ones which know us. A crowd of men waves guns to stop the bus. Somehow they apparently believe that there are American soldiers on the bus. Gunmen run on to the bus and see there are injured and old people, Iraqis, and then relax and wave us on.</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> We stop in Abu Ghraib and swap seats, foreigners in the front, Iraqis less visible, headscarves off so we look more Western. The American soldiers are so happy to see Westerners they don't mind too much about the Iraqis </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">with us, search the men and the bus, leave the women unsearched because there are no women soldiers to search us</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>__ **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">And then we're in Baghdad, delivering them to the hospitals. The satellite news says the cease-fire is holding and George Bush insists his actions in Iraq are right.</span>__**
**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;">On the Trail of Tears with Waterkiller</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">Interview with Mr. Ellis Waterkiller Available online: </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://anpa.ualr.edu/digital_library/Family%20Stories%20from%20the%20Trail%20of%20Tears.htm#_blank|http://anpa.ualr.edu/digital_library/Family%20Stories%20from%20the%20Trail%20of%20Tears.htm#Overview]]</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;">Feed um two times some days, sometimes feed um one time. Soldiers eat all time, take care horses better than my grandma-grandpa. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">Yuh-</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;">they bring skillet some things grandma had. </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">Yuh -</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14.0pt;"> lots die, lots sick, lots die, two week walk, they die, bury em where they die, any place. Yuh - clothes bad, tore em, dirty too, clothes all gone when get here. Throw lot way on road, no good. They get here, lots timber, land no good in hills, all right in valley Yuh - Grandma hate white man. Give all land, good land, in old country meaning North Carolina and Georgia. . . . white man say "Trail Tears", she say: "Trail Death"</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8.0pt;">. . . . grandpa die next year, mother born. (meaning his grandfather died one year after the birth of his mother.) </span>


**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">In Vietnam with Herr </span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Herr, Michael. //Dispatches//. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1977. Print.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">The Mission was always telling us about VC unites being engaged and wiped out and then reappearing about a month later in full strength, there was nothing very spooky about that, but when we went up against his terrain we usually took it definitively, and even if we didn’t keep it you could always see that we’d at least been there.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">At the end of my first week in-country I meet an information officer</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> in the headquarters of the 25th division at Cu Chi </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">who showed me his map and then from his chopper what they’d done to the Ho Bo Woods, the vanished Ho Bo woods, taken off by </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">giant Rome plows and </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">chemicals and long, slow fire, wasting hundreds of acres of cultivated plantation and wild forest </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">alike, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">“denying the enemy valuable resources and cover.” </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">It had been part of his job for nearly a year now to tell people about that operation; correspondents, touring congressmen, movie stars, corporation presidents, staff officers from half the armies in the world, and he still couldn’t get over it. It seemed to be keeping him young, his enthusiasm made you feel that even the letters he wrote home to his wife were full of it, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">it really showed what you could do if you had the know-how and the hardware. And if in the months following that operation incidences of enemy activity </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">in the larger area of War Zone C</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> had increased “significantly”, and American losses had doubled and then doubled again, none of it was happening in any damn Ho Bo Woods, you’d better believe it…</span>__**












**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">In Dresden with Spanos</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Spanos, William V. //In the Neighborhood of Zero: A World War II Memoir//. N.p.: Board of Regents of the University of Nebraska, 2010. Print.</span>

**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">It was </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">at first</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> as if a monstrous demon</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, as in a painting by Goya,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> had brought his </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">huge clenched</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> cosmic fist crashing down on </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">the stage of </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">the world </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">out of spite or caprice.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">But as the horror of these last few days came rushing </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">tumultuously</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> into my head, that </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">capricious</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> demon</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">—</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">that Saturn</span>__<span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">—</span>__**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">and his </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">devastating mythical </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">cosmic fist reverted back to their original state: the strategic Allied air force and the thousands upon thousands of pounds of</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">incendiary</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> bombs it had dropped </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">indiscriminately </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">on an unprotected city of innocent civilians. Despite my effort to rationalize the carnage perpetuated by an evil regime—I couldn’t</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, as before,</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> make my argument take hold. I had experienced</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> a vaguely defined </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">evil for which there simply was no justification</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">. I couldn’t formulate the feeling of anger and frustration I felt then, but</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> it was persistent, a haunting specter, to the end of the war and many years thereafter. And it had to do precisely with bearing witness to, remembering,</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> indeed</span>**__<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;"> re-remembering, those thousands upon thousands of innocent lives that our incendiary bombs had wiped out—dismembered—and deprived of their stories in less than twenty-four hours.</span>__**



**<span style="color: black; font-size: 14pt;">Here in the zero-zone, with the unseen, there is a choice to be made. We can return to our vision from the hovering helicopters, the war diagrams, the radar screens and withdraw shuddering from the horror of reality--or we can confront the truth of this war machine, living in the midst of the ghosts, the flames, the bombs, the graves... and affirm.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rape</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">t[[http://mydutytospeak.com/?s=afghanistan&submit=Search]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Written by Panayiota, United States Coast Guard</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Panayiota Bertzikis</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Executive Director</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Military Rape Crisis Center</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">About My Duty to Speak: Every</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">four hours a sexual assault or rape is reported in the United States Military</span>**.**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In 2009 alone there been </span>[[http://www.defense.gov/releases/release.aspx?releaseid=13379|3230 reported cases]] <span style="font-size: 8pt;">of sexual abuse among our service men and women. According to experts from the Department of Defense, the Military Rape Crisis Center and the Department of Veterans Affairs many more rape cases go unreported or are under reported. Read the stories of the brave individuals as they speak about service to their country, being assaulted and their journey to heal. Each testimony posted on here has been verified by a team of experts to determine that only factual information is posted.</span>

__**Listen to the story of Panayiota**__

__**I was raped and they said that I wanted it then they said that I was lying**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">then they went back to saying that I asked for it so I told them to make up their mind-</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Was my rape a lie or</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">did I do something to ‘get myself raped’?</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and they went back to </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">contradicting themselves</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; that I wanted it, that I am lying but I deserved it-</span> __**then they discharged me from service.**__

__**That was how it went. That it how it always goes. Every survivor, every story. We are all told that we deserved what they think never happened. Cause you know we deserve being raped or being assaulted or being killed just cause we are the female**__

__**and we are the ones that chose to drink- but its okay for our comrade to spike it with [[http://www.projectghb.org/dfsa.html|GHB]]?**__

__**[[#v=onepage&q&f=false|Our fault cause we are the ones that chose to go hiking with a shipmate]]-but it is okay when our shipmate throw us down on the trail, punch us in the face and rape us?**__

__**[[http://www.vermontguardian.com/dailies/022006/020806.shtml|Our fault cause we are the ones that chose to use the latrine in the middle of the night]] – but it is okay when a fellow soldier follow us and rape us?**__
__**and we are the ones that are fulfilling every man’s fantasy of seeing a “hot woman with a rifle”.**__

__**Yep, our fault.**__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cause we wanted to serve our country, cause we been raped and beaten–or killed.</span>

__**Our fault cause we are young or lower ranked or pretty.**__

__**Our fault cause we chose a career that is male-dominant.**__

__**Our fault that our shipmates, our comrades, the very men that we signed up to take a bullet for choose to rape us instead.**__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Never mind you did say that–</span>__**we are all liars, right?**__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">that</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">we are just out to ruin a man’s career</span>__**-cause you know we signed up to defend our country, attend basic training, MOS training, deploy to Iraq or**__ 

__**Afghanistan or out at sea for months without seeing our families, get raped just because we wanted to [[http://www.pbs.org/pov/regardingwar/conversations/women-and-war/sexual-assault-in-the-military-a-nations-shame.php|RUIN A PRECIOUS MAN’S CAREER.]]**__//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yep, that is exactly why we walked into a recruiter office when we were 18</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">NOT</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">**.**</span>

__**Or we are lying out of regret and remorse for “getting drunk and sleeping around” cause you know, it is our fault for being**__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">drugged, after all you did consent when you are</span> __**passed out from being given a date rape drug, right?**__//Well not exactly.//

__**When we watch our rapists be set free with nothing more than an Article 15, it is our fault for not receiving justice, cause after all you claim to have a “[[http://mydutytospeak.com/www.uscg.mil/directives/ci/1000-1999/CI_1754_10C.pdf%20-%202008-01-03|zero-tolerance policy]]” so if we did not receive justice it is something that we have done wrong even when**__[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2009/03/17/military-rape-reports-ris_n_176106.html|//__**about ninety-percent of all accused rapists never see their day in court?**__//]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and when we are found dead you claim it is suicide, cause a[[http://thedailyvoice.com/voice/2008/08/who-killed-private-lavena-john-001026.php| 5’1 woman can shoot herself with an 40 inch long M16]], cause it is</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> still our fault when we are no longer breathing for doing what is physically the impossible?</span>

__**[[http://stopmilitaryrape.org/statistics|Ninety-two percent of sexual assault survivors]] report being INVOLUNTARILY DISCHARGED FROM SERVICE FOR REPORTING A SEXUAL ASSAULT but it is the man’s career that matters? Cause we are the ones with “[[http://www.armytimes.com/news/2010/12/military-personality-disorder-lawsuit-VVA-121510w/|personality disorders]]” and “[[http://www.armytimes.com/news/2010/08/military_adjustmentdisorder_081210/|adjustment disorders]]” or whatever the bogus misdiagnoses is of the week.**__

__**Cause it is the man’s military and a[[http://www.jesus-is-savior.com/Womens%20Page/women_dont_belong_in_military.htm| woman has no place in it,]] right?**__
__[[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2009/03/17/eveningnews/main4872713.shtml|One in three females in the military report being sexually assaulted]],__ __**so are we all liars or are we all sluts or maybe, just maybe**__ //__the thousands of women that reported rape in the military were telling the truth?__//

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">my fault for thinking that the military actually cared about its sexual assault survivors. sorry.</span>


__**From Common Dreams**__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
[[http://www.commondreams.org/view/2011/04/01-9]]

**Currently, the military fails to deal with rape because of its arbitrary definition and independent legal system. It has a completely separate set of procedures, a system based mostly on chain of command; and a culture of blaming the victim and letting the perpetrator go free.**


__**Mullins 5**__ Mullins, Courtney. "Military Culture and Sexual Assault Victims." Connections: A Bi-Annual Publication of the Washington Coalition of Sexual Assault Programs (2005). Print. 

**This arbitrary military justice system not only directly impacts service members, but is the** __**exact**__ **same problem which deprives justice from rape victims in host countries with U.S military presence.**

__**Caron 99**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Caron, Cathleen. "ARTICLE: Whose Security Is It? Military Violence Against Women During Peacetime." </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">//Human Rights Brief//</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(1999). Print. </span>

**The failure to prosecute rape speaks in a larger sense of the military culture which allows violence without fear of persecution. It shows the irony that sexual violence is a war crime, yet it is the US military which** __**perpetuates**__ **those crimes without being brought to justice. This sends the message that glorification of the military culture takes precedence over even the most heinous of crimes.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
__**LATimes 8**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Rape in the U.S. military </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">by Lucinda Marshall January 30, 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/la-oew-marshall30jan30,0,510658.story</span>

**US service members from Iraq, Afghanistan, and other deployment zones have recently sued the United States for mishandling and ignoring sexual assaults committed by military personnel. Ruling on such a lawsuit reforms the military legal system and changes military culture.**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
__**Associated Press Feb 15**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [[http://www.omaha.com/article/20110215/AP/702159871?sms_ss=email&at_xt=4d5c9185a8b590f4%2C1]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Published Tuesday February 15, 2011 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Veterans: Rape cases mishandled</span>

**Thus, the United States Supreme Court will grant a writ of certiorari to Cioca v. Rumsfeld and rule that acts of rape and sexual assault committed in a time of war is a war crime and must be properly investigated and punished under federal law.**

**Specifically, definition of rape as a war crime would subject any armed force group to be punishable under U.S. and international law with strict penalties, thus placing the military and related groups under legal jurisdiction.**

[[#a]]__**Cornell University Law School 11**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "§ 2441. War crimes." </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">//Cornell University Law School//</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Legal Information Institute, n.d. Web. 21 Mar. 2011. <http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/18/usc_sec_18_00002441----000-.html>. § 2441. War crimes [[http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/HowCurrent.php/?tn=18&fragid=T18F00992&extid=usc_sec_18_00002441----000-&sourcedate=2010-06-28&proctime=Tue%20Jun%2029%2010:11:49%202010|How Current is This?]] </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>  <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]