[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==<span style="line-height: 27px;">CIA Counterfactual 1AC (TOC)</span>== 

**In the height of the Cold War-era fear of Communism and the nuclear panic being led by U.S. government officials, President Jimmy Carter and his National Security Council saw an opportunity to protect American freedom by opposing the Soviet Union through militant groups in Afghanistan.**

**The CIA led the crusade providing weapons and training to tribal groups fighting against the Afghan Communists.**

**Despite what the history books tell you, the Soviets did not strike first. The United States had three CIA divisions in Afghanistan before the surge took place. Instead the US intervened into an Afghan civil war in an attempt to lure the Soviet Union in and make them waste precious time and resources fighting to protect their Communist ally. The end result was the Carter Doctrine which created the urgency that became the War on Terror**
**Prados 2** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(John Prados, PhD in political science from Columbia University and senior analyst with the National Security Archive, “Notes on the CIA’s Secret War in Afghanistan, The Journal of American History, September 2002, JSTOR, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/3092167.pdf?acceptTC=true]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> The CIA operation of the 1980s … have slowed down since September. </span>

**We are now dealing with the consequences of CIA intervention in Afghanistan during the 1979 civil war. The US chose to fund and train the most radical elements of the mujahideen movement because we perceived them as being better fighters and thus more useful for defeating the Soviets. Our support destabilized the region and allowed radicals to come to power**
**Simon and Carpenter 1** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Scott Simon, reporter for NPR, Ted Carpenter, fellow at the Cato institute, “Interview: Ted Carpenter explains how US involvement in Afghanistan in the 1980s has now backfired”, September 22, 2001, NPR Interview, EBSCOhost, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?vid=3&hid=125&sid=df2e5bc4-5a8a-41c8-91b1-ffad45028c61%40sessionmgr111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZQ%3d%3d#db=n5h&AN=6XN200109221207]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> SIMON: </span>__What exactly …**to come to power.**__

**Far from being freedom fighters, the mujahideen were the most radical fundamentalists. While receiving US support, they threw acid in the faces of women who did not wear veils in public. In fact, the same men considered to be heroes in the 70s have been known to commit a number of atrocities. We have created our own monsters – the Taliban, Al Qaeda, and bin Laden all came to power through the help of the CIA**
**Nanji 4** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Meena Nanji, writer for Sarai Reader and award winning documentary filmmaker specializing in Afghanistan, “Thoughts on Afghanistan in 5 Parts”, 2004, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.sarai.net/publications/readers/04-crisis-media/32meena.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> A History of Forgetting Example</span>__…and worst of all, Evil.__


**Thus Philip and I advocate the following counter-factual plan:**

**Plan: The National Security Council should remove the Central Intelligence Agency presence from Afghanistan.**

**The counter-factual is not a perfect advocacy. It is not a utopian solution to violence or covert operations. A counter-factual advocacy allows us to examine how discourses and policies created as a result of the CIA presence in Afghanistan influences military policy today and how Afghanistan and socio-cultural understandings of the mujahideen could be different.**

**The history of Afghanistan and the world did not have to be this way. The actions of the CIA gave rise to the most powerful terrorist organizations responsible for atrocities such as the attacks on 9/11. Considering a world in which the US did not assist the mujahideen undermines the ideology that it is permissible to use other lives for US geopolitical interests**
**Hartman 2** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Andrew Hartman, professor of history at Illinois State University, “'The Red Template': US Policy in Soviet-Occupied Afghanistan”, Third World Quarterly, Vol. 23, No. 3 (Jun., 2002), pp. 467-489, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/3993537.pdf]]</span>)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> US foreign policy demands …</span> __getting the Russians out.'__<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> 127</span>

===[[#Affirmative-2AC Framework]]2AC Framework=== 

**Counterfactuals are already imbedded in debate practices, even in the politics disad—no key analytical distinction in counterfactual about what might have been or what might be in the future. In fact, analytical debates about past events are key to avoid being locked into the terrible decisions of the past**
**Broda-Bahm ’94** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Kenneth T. Broda-Bahm is an assistant professor of communication at Southern Illinois University. “A Counterfactual Theory of Fiat,” //Contemporary Argumentation and Debate// 20) </span>

The applicability of counterfactual …. Making false assumptions

**Historical counterfactual game playing in debates is vital to evaluation in international policy making – we access the root of all your policy education claims**
**DesMequita ’96** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Bruce Bueno de Mesquita is a political scientist, professor at New York University, and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution.__Counterfactual thought experiments in world politics: logical, methodological, and psychological perspectives__, ed. Philip Tetlock, Aaron Belkin. Princeton University Press, 1996. THIS BOOK IS EDITED BY PHILLIP TETLOCK, THE AUTHOR OF HUGE NUMBERS OF NEG PREDICTIONS CARDS)</span>

Counterfactual reasoning, when … reality and beliefs about it.

**Counterfactuals are the logical and natural basis of fiat in debate arguments. Isolating by type creates false distinction in hypothetical analytical considerations. Far from being unconventional, our aff the logical basis of what we all already believe. Anything else is arbitrary**
**Broda-Bahm ’94** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Kenneth T. Broda-Bahm is an assistant professor of communication at Southern Illinois University. “A Counterfactual Theory of Fiat,” //Contemporary Argumentation and Debate// 20) </span>

In order to be … over the limits of fiat

**Counterfactual preserve negative ground—they have access to historical and empirical data on our counterfactual. Moreover, every single field which debate is meant to represent stands on counterfactual analysis. We cannot talk about policy, economics, or the law without counterfactual analysis**
**Scott ’95** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(David K. Scott is a Professor of Communication Studies at Northeastern State University. “Debating Historical Propositions,”<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: 100% 50%; background-repeat: no-repeat no-repeat; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.eric.ed.gov/ERICWebPortal/detail?accno=ED383004]]</span>) </span>

Based on the temporal … is not a matter of formal logic.

==Japan BMD== 

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Contention 1 – Inherency**</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**US-Japan BMD cooperation spurs new missile defense development**</span>
**Young 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ko Young Dae, contributor to Solidarity for Peace and Reunification of Korea, 5/9/10, “U.S. Military Strategy on the Korean Peninsula and Missile Defense in Northeast Asia”, http://www.spark946.org/bugsboard/index.php)</span>

<span style="margin-right: 13.7pt;">__The United States regards Japan ……………………..__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> from the Sea of Okhotsk.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Japan can’t shoot down ICBMs without new missile technology under co-development </span>
**<span class="cite">Toki 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Masako, project manager in the Nonproliferation Education Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, where she studies Japan's nonproliferation and disarmament policy, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, January 16, “Missile defense in Japan”, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/missile-defense-japan) </span>

<span style="margin-right: 13.7pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Technologically, </span>__Japan currently ……__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">missile heading toward the United States might be perceived as unacceptable. </span></span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Thus the plan:** **<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">The Department of Defense should end cooperation with Japan over the development and deployment of intercontinental ballistic missile defense.</span>**</span>


===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">China Adv </span>=== 


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**US-Japan BMD cooperation threatens to neutralize China’s deterrence capabilities**</span>
**Dvorkin et al 9** <span style="color: #231f20; font-size: 8pt;">(**Vladimir Dvorkin**, doctor of military sciences and major-general (retired), is a consultant with the Carnegie Moscow Center, **Cristina Hansell** is director of the Newly Independent States Nonproliferation Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies and an adjunct professor at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, **Jeffrey Lewis** is director of the Nuclear Strategy and Nonproliferation Initiative at the New America Foundation, **Anya Loukianova** is a research associate in the Newly Independent States Nonproliferation Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, **Nikita Perfilyev** is a Fulbright fellow at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, **William C. Potter** is Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, **Lora Saalman** is a Ph.D. candidate in Tsinghua University’s Department of International Relations, **Nikolai N. Sokov** is a senior research associate at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, **Mikhail Tsypkin** is an associate professor in the Department of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School (NPS) in Monterey, California, **Jing-dong Yuan** directs the East Asia Nonproliferation Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Studies and is associate professor of international policy studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies, **Pavel S. Zolotarev**, major-general (retired), is deputy director of the Institute for U.S. and Canada Studies of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and professor of the Academy of Military Sciences,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> “Engaging China and Russia on Nuclear Disarmament”, March 2009, http://cns.miis.edu/opapers/op15/index.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-right: 13.7pt;">China has traditionally adhered to a ………………………… to attack its nuclear facilities and nuclear forces. </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**This forces China to modernize their nuclear arsenal starting an arms race**</span>
**Chase et al 9**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (MICHAEL S. CHASE, ANDREW S. ERICKSON AND CHRISTOPHER YEAW, professors at the United States Naval War College, “Chinese Theater and Strategic Missile Force Modernization and its Implications for the United States”, The Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 32, No. 1, 67–114, February 2009) </span>

<span style="margin-right: 13.7pt;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">A third and perhaps equally important uncertainty ………….</span>__the number and sophistication of ICBMs in its arsenal____<span style="color: windowtext;">. </span>__</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">**<span class="tagChar">An arms race in East Asia will cause global nuclear war and extinction – it makes war possible</span>**</span>
**<span class="tagChar">Cimbala 8</span>** (Stephen, Professor of Political Science at Penn State University. Comparative Strategy .2, p 113-132, March 27, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia,”) 

<span style="margin-right: 13.7pt;">__The spread of nuclear weapons in ………………….for the obsolescence or marginalization of major interstate warfare.__</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**BMD cooperation causes China to first strike the US**</span>
**Chase et al 9**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (MICHAEL S. CHASE, ANDREW S. ERICKSON AND CHRISTOPHER YEAW, professors at the United States Naval War College, “Chinese Theater and Strategic Missile Force Modernization and its Implications for the United States”, The Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 32, No. 1, 67–114, February 2009) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Second, in a crisis situation, </span>__it would ………………………__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> probably would in a showdown over Taiwan</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: AdvP5958; font-size: 11pt;">. </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Chinese preemptive strike causes a war in space**</span>
**Martel and Yoshihara 3** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(William C. Martel, professor of national security affairs at the Naval War College, AND Toshi Yoshihara, doctoral candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, and a research fellow at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis in Massachusetts. The Washington Quarterly 26.4 (2003) 19-35. “Averting a Sino-U.S. Space Race.”) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-right: 13.7pt;">What exactly does such an action-reaction…………………..states depend on satellites for their economic well-being. </span>

**Space wars cause extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 1</span>** [Gordon R., Member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Working Group on Theater Missile Defenses in the Asia-Pacific Region., Winter “Japan-U.S. Missile Defense Collaboration: Rhetorically Delicious, Deceptively Dangerous”, http://www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/JapanTMD.pdf]

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="small"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Any clear-cut distinction between offensive and defense in the TMD</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> …………………………..</span></span><span class="underline">world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen.</span></span>


===Europe Adv=== 


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**No European country currently has BMD capabilities**</span>
**O’Rourke 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Ronald, Specialist in Naval Affairs, Congressional Research Service, June 10, “Navy Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) Program: Background and Issues for Congress”, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL33745.pdf]]) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 13.7pt 0in 0in;">__Japan’s interest in BMD………………………..**BMD capability.**__</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Block 2As will be exported to Europe once development is complete**</span>
**Japan Times 9**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (The Japan Times, “U.S. urges Japan to export SM-3s Interceptor missiles for Europe sought but face export ban”, October 25, 2009, http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20091025a2.html) </span>

<span style="margin-right: 13.7pt;">__U.S. Defense Secretary Robert …………………….., including Germany__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, the sources said. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Block 2As in Europe cause Russia to leave the INF Treaty**</span>
**Coyle and Samson 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Philip, Senior Advisor to the World Security Institute, recognized expert on U.S. and worldwide military research, development, and testing, on operational military matters, and on national security policy and defense spending, and Victoria, Center for Defense Information, teaches on national security issues at the graduate International Relations program at St. Mary's University, April 23, “Missile Defense Malfunction: Why the Proposed U.S. Missile Defenses in Europe Will Not Work”, Ethics & International Affairs, Volume 22.1 (Spring 2008), http://www.cceia.org/resources/journal/22_1/special_report/001.html) </span>

<span style="margin: 0in 13.7pt 0in 0in;"><span class="underline">__Also linked to the proposed U.S. missile ………………….__</span>**__provisions would be vastly reduced.__**</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Russian withdraw from the INF causes global nuclear war**</span>
**Arbatov 7** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and Member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, RUSSIA IN GLOBAL AFFAIRS VOL. 5 • No. 3 • JULY – SEPTEMBER) </span>

Meanwhile, __U.S. plans to build a missile ………………__ in one or several major capitals of the world.


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Russia wants to increase relations with the US but BMD development undermines the relationship**</span>
**Gevorgyan 10** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Lilit Gevorgyan, Russia and CIS, Europe Analyst at IHS Global Insight, February 10, 2010, “Russia Describes NATO, U.S. Anti-Missile Defence Plans in Eastern Europe as Security Threats”, Lexis) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-right: 13.7pt;">On 9 February, the <span class="DebateUnderline">Chief of the Russian ……………the recent developments do not help to quell this feeling of mistrust.</span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**US-Russia relations solve resource wars**</span>
**Tayler 8** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Jeffrey Tayler, contributor on Russia to The Atlantic Monthly, November 2008, “Medvedev Spoils the Party”, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/11/medvedev-spoils-the-party/7130/1/) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-right: 13.7pt;">Like it or not, the <span class="DebateUnderline">United States cannot ……………………… with which to face a volatile future arm in arm. </span></span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Resource wars cause extinction**</span>
**Wooldridge 9** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Frosty Wooldridge, free lance writer, lectured at Cornell University, 2009 “Humanity galloping toward its greatest crisis in the 21st century” http://www.australia.to/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=10042:humanity-galloping-toward-its-greatest-crisis-in-the-21st-century&catid=125:frosty-wooldridge&Itemid=244 </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-right: 13.7pt;">It is clear that most <span class="DebateUnderline">politicians and most ……………the worst (and not unlikely) case, a nuclear war ending civilization.</span></span>


===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Solvency </span>=== 


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Ending cooperation is key to stopping BMD development in Japan**</span>
**Brown 9**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Peter Brown, writer for the Asia Times, “US frets over Tokyo drift”, Asia Times, November 5, 2009, </span><span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://www.atimes. com/atimes/Japan/KK05Dh01.html</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"Short of a major rupture in the alliance……………………….</span>__capability furnished by the US."__


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**The US should end missile defense cooperation with Japan**</span>
**Toki 9** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Masako, project manager in the Nonproliferation Education Program at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies, where she studies Japan's nonproliferation and disarmament policy, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, January 16, “Missile defense in Japan”, [[http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/missile-defense-japan]]) </span>

<span class="underline">__The current security environment ……………countries in the region such as China to join in this endeavor__</span>__.__


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**MAD prevents war – the risk of extinction deters attack**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Pollard 9** (Justin Pollard, professor of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, “Nuclear Proliferation and the Deterrence of Conventional War: A Proposal”, April 2009, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://emlab.berkeley.edu/pub/econ/ugrad/theses/justin_pollard_thesis.pdf]]</span>)</span>
Nuclear deterrence theory, in short, refers........a probability of mutual destruction.

==Add-Ons== 
=== === 
===<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Japan Rearm </span>=== 

**Missile Defense cooperation with Japan will destroy Japan’s constitution**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span class="cite">Wooksik 7</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Cheong, one of the founding members and the representative of [[http://www.peacekorea.org/english/|Peace Network]], a non-governmental organization formed in 1999, working for peace and disarmament in the Northeast Asia, 12/24, “Missile Defense Acts as a Trojan Horse”, [[http://english.ohmynews.com/articleview/article_view.asp?at_code=432927]]) </span></span>
<span style="display: block; margin-right: 13.7pt;">__Missile Defense Acts ………………… the precursor of amending its constitution.__</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Missile defense demands offensive strike capability – means Japan will rearm if the constitution cannot prohibit it </span>**</span>
**<span class="Author-Date">Japan Economic Newswire 9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(June 9, 2009, “LDP proposes Japan obtain ability to hit enemy's missile launch sites”, Lexis) </span>

<span style="display: block; margin-right: 13.7pt;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Defense policy-making panels</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of the ruling Liberal Democratic ……………………….<span class="DottedUnderline">__missile launch sites."__</span></span></span>
**Japanese rearm leads to regional prolif and nuclear war**
**Cirincione 2k**
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt;">director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 2000 [Joseph, Foreign Policy, March 22, p. lexis] </span>
__The blocks would fall quickest …………………….with each new development.__

===Russian Economy=== 

<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**US-Japan missile defense causes retaliation and modernization by Russia – leads to global proliferation and destroys the Russian economy**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Blank 9** – Dr. Stephen Blank , Research Professor of National Security Affairs at the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College, March 2009, “Russia And Arms Control: Are There Opportunities For The Obama Administration?,” online: [[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub908.pdf]]</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">As McDonough showed above, </span>__U.S. force__......in reality the threat of Chinese missiles, not Russia. </span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Russian economic collapse causes nuclear war**</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 0in;">**Filger 9** – Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” online: [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]]</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% transparent;">In Russia</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% transparent;">, historically, </span>__**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% transparent;">economic health</span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% transparent;">.........</span><span style="font-size: small;">Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span></span>
===Naval Power=== 


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Missile defense cooperation with Japan will make China build missiles that can take out the entire US Navy**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Weeden 9** (Brian Weeden is a technical advisor for the <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://secureworldfoundation.org/|Secure World Foundation]]</span> and former US Air Force officer with <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.secureworldfoundation.org/index.php?id=9&pid=4&page=Staff#brian|a background]]</span> in space surveillance and ICBM operations, “The space security implications of missile defense”, The Space Review, September 28, 2009, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1474/1)</span>
There are implications to ....... space-based capabilities.


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Navy key to heg**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**Friedman 7** – founder, CEO, and chief intelligence officer of Stratfor (George, April 10th, “The Limitations and Necessity of Naval Power”, http://www.stratfor.com/limitations_and_necessity_naval_power)</span>
The argument for slashing ..... in U.S. national security. 

**We just read generic heg good here**

===Disaster Relief=== 

**Japan is in desperate need of cash to respond to the recent disasters – every bit counts**
**Halloran 11** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Liz Halloran, </span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 9pt;">Pulitzer Prize</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;"> winner for journalism and writer for NPR News, “International Humanitarian Aid Needed For Japan”, NPR, March 14, 2011, [[http://www.npr.org/2011/03/15/134541988/international-humanitarian-aid-needed-for-japan]]) </span>

__Japan, with the world's third … to learn what it needs."__


**Every cent that Japan spends on BMD development trades off in expenses for other fields – ending cooperation frees up $5 billion per year for the relief fund**
**Kawasaki 9** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Akira Kawasaki, </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">executive committee member of Peace Boat and the NGO Advisor for the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament,</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt;"> “JAPAN’S MILITARY SPENDING AT A CROSSROADS”, ASIAN PERSPECTIVE, Vol. 33, No. 4, 2009, pp. 129-146, [[http://www.asianperspective.org/articles/v33n4-f.pdf]]) </span>

__In announcing the decision…__<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (RMA) in the 1990s. </span>

**Plan is reverse causal – Japan will use all the money gained from BMD cuts to fund the relief effort**
**Kajimoto 11** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(Tetsushi Kajimoto, Tokyo reporter for Reuters, “Japan may use budget savings to fund first relief fiscal package”, March 24, 2011, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/03/24/us-japan-economy-budget-idUSTRE72N1AJ20110324]]) </span>

__Japan's government may…__<span style="font-size: 9pt;">world's costliest natural disaster. </span>

**The humanitarian costs of this disaster are unimaginable – survivors are left starving, homeless, freezing in the snow, and without water and medicine – this destroys value to life**
**CBS 11** <span style="font-size: 9.0pt;">(CBS News, “Scope of Japan humanitarian crisis becomes clear”, March 18, 2011, [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011%20/03/18/earlyshow/main20044593.shtml|http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2011 /03/18/earlyshow/main20044593.shtml]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(CBS News) </span>__Friday marks a grim … is rapidly decreasing.__
=Negative= 

==﻿FET CP== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">FEMALE ENGAGEMENT TEAMS ARE PART OF THE COUNTER INSURGENCY CAMPAIGN</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">BUMILLER 10</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(For Female Marines, Tea Comes With Bullets, Elizabeth, national affairs correspondent for the </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_York_Times|New York Times]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">. October 2, 2010, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/10/03/world/asia/03marines.html)</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Six months ago, __Lance Corporal …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> gather intelligence, and help open schools and clinics.</span>__ </span>
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">TURNS CASE - FET’S ARE THE BEST ACCESS POINT FOR AFGHAN WOMEN</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">MEHRA 10</span>** <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">(Sasha, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE, B.A., The Johns Hopkins University, J.D., American Univ. MASTER OF MILITARY ART AND SCIENCE, Presented to the Faculty of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COUNTERINSURGENCY: THE IMPORTANCE OF AFGHAN WOMEN IN U.S. COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATIONS) </span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">While <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Afghan women</span> … **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> for the United States.</span>**</span>__

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">CP IS KEY TO SOLVE RAPE, SEXUAL VIOLENCE, TRAFFICKING, AND WOMENS RIGHTS </span>** **<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">MEHRA 10</span>** <span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt;">(Sasha, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE, B.A., The Johns Hopkins University, J.D., American Univ. MASTER OF MILITARY ART AND SCIENCE, Presented to the Faculty of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COUNTERINSURGENCY: THE IMPORTANCE OF AFGHAN WOMEN IN U.S. COUNTERINSURGENCY OPERATIONS) </span></span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">The threat of violence is an everyday … security grounded in a democratic process</span>__<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;"> (Chiarelli 2005).</span>

==Mission Accomplished== 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">We have entered the stage of the Pax Americana facilitated by an expanding militarism that assaults the environment and constantly creates new threats to intervene against. This infinite quest for good will inevitably destroy itself and possibly the globe along the way </span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">BOGGS 2005</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Carl, Professor of Social Sciences at National University in Los Angeles, Adjunct Professor at Antioch University in Los Angeles, Imperial Delusions: American Militarism and Endless War, isbn: 0742527727, p __ix-xi___]-AC </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">This book explores the resurgence … </span>**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">requirements for international stability and hegemony.</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">THE AFFIRMATIVE PLAN SUSTAINS A CORRUPT MILITARISTIC GIANT THAT RECREATES ITS OWN VIOLENCE. THE ACT OF WITHDRAWING IS PART OF A PLOY OF NEW IMPERIALISM TO EXTEND ITS CONTROL AROUND THE GLOBE </span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mann 2003</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Michael, <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Kingdom|British-born]]</span> professor of <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sociology|Sociology]]</span> at the UCLA and Visiting Research Professor at <span style="color: blue; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen%27s_University_Belfast|Queen's University Belfast]]</span> Incoherent Empire, isbn: 1859845827, p 13-14_ ]-AC </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">My argument can be illustrated with a rather … when European opposition did surface in late 2002. </span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ADDITIONALLY, THE IMPERIALISM OF THE STATUS QUO HAS FACILITATED A COMPLETE NUMBNESS TO VIOLENCE THAT HAS CREATED A ROUTINZATION OF MASS MURDER </span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">BOGGS 2005</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Carl, Professor of Social Sciences at National University in Los Angeles, Adjunct Professor at Antioch University in Los Angeles, Imperial Delusions: American Militarism and Endless War, isbn: 0742527727, p __187-188___]-AC </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">One of the more tragic parts of the U.S … psychological immediacy by the mechanism of technowar.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-right: 0.05in;">OUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO DO NOTHING IN THE FACE OF THE AFFIRMATIVE’S IMPERIAL STRATEGY. OUR STRATEGY FRUSTRATES THE LOGIC OF IMPERIALISM BY REFUSING TO BE ANSWERABLE TO AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALISM. THIS PRAXIS ENABLES US TO PLACE ONTOLOGICAL QUESTIONS ABOUT THE WORLD AS A PRIOR CONCERN TO THE AFF’S DEMANDS THUS MAKING A RETHINKING OF IMPERIALISM POSSIBLE.</span>
<span style="margin-right: 0.05in;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">SPANOS 2000</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [William, __America’s Shadow__, p 197-202]-AC</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin-right: 0.05in;">If, however, we forcibly dislocate the pervasive, … than it has with that of the American intellectuals who are "against theory" because it is foreign to American culture.19</span>

==South Korea DA== 

**US military commitment to South Korea high now – North Korean attacks**
**Seoul News 11/24** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(“US assures shoulder to shoulder support for 'close friend and ally' South Korea”, Novermber 24, 2010, [[http://www.seoulnews.net/story/711532]])</span>
__United States President Barack Obama__ ..... the White House statement said. 

**Maintaining presence now is key – abandoning South Korea causes Israel to first strike Iran**
**Kotsev 11-30**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (Victor Kotsev is a journalist and political analyst for Asia Times, “Teetering Asian dominoes test Obama”, Asia Times, November 30, 2010, [[http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/LK30Dg01.html]])</span>
__While__ Japan called for a tough ......__WikiLeaks and other reports.__

**Iran would close the Strait of Hormuz in response to the attack**
**Rodgers 9** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Walter Rodgers, a former senior international correspondent for CNN, writes a biweekly column for the Christian Science Monitor, “The danger of an Israeli strike on Iran”, Christian Science Monitor, April 24, 2009, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/Commentary/Opinion/2009/0424/p09s05-coop.html]])</span>
__The fallout from Israel's strike on Osirak__ ......__the American troops there.__

**Closing the Strait of Hormuz cuts off the global oil supply**
**EIA 8** (Energy Information Administration, part of the US Department of Energy, “World Oil Transit Chokepoints”, January 2008, [[http://www.eia.doe.gov/cabs/world_oil_transit_chokepoints/background.html]])
__Chokepoints are narrow channels__ ......which can lead to disastrous oil spills. 

**That destroys the economy**
**Zakaria 8** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">( Tabassum Zakaria, writer for Reuters, “Steady oil supply key for world growth: White House”, Reuters, February 1, 2008, [[http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSN0141374920080201]])</span>
The White House on Friday said that __.... this commodity__," Fratto said. 

**Extinction**
[[#_Toc236207143]] (Liutenant Colonel <span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Bearden, The Unnecessary Energy Crisis: How We Can Solve It, 2000, http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Big-Medicine/message/642</span></span>
Bluntly, we foresee these factors .....<span class="DebateUnderline">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">biosphere, </span>__</span>at least for many decades.

===__GREENHILL - ROUND 5__=== 
Negative vs. Dulles KR - Japan/Futenma
Judge - Tate

1NC:
T - Substantial reduction has to be at least 50%
START DA
Spanos K
Case: Biodiversity defense, no war (Mandelbaum)

2NR:
Spanos K






[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]