[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

Obsv. 1: Consequentialism is the fwk.

States, the actors in the resolution, operate under utilitarian ethics
John Hasnas Copyright 1995 by the Duke Law Journal Originally published in 45 Duke Law Journal 84 (1995) FROM CANNIBALISM TO CAESAREANS: TWO CONCEPTIONS OF FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS
“As we have…standard operating procedure”

Thesis: Existence of Nuclear weapons makes nuclear war inevitable
Stuart Koehl, 9-24-2009, “Destabilization and Disarmament,” Weekly Standard, http://weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/993kkohs.asp?pg=2

Obama is engaging in extensive unilateral nuclear cuts – this will destroy deterrence and increasing the likelihood of a Russian first strike
“On the other hand…control systems”

Even if there is no intentional war, accidental nuclear war is very probable almost inevitable
Bruce G. Blair et al, Ph.D. in operations research, president of the World Security Institute, and former visiting professor at Yale and Princeton, 2008, “Toward True Security: Ten Steps The Next President Should Take To Transform U.S. Nuclear Weapons Policy” http://www.fas.org/press/_docs/Toward%20True%20Security%202008%20.pdf
“While Russia retains…by false alarms”

Accidental launch causes World War 3
Pikaev, ‘1 (A.G. ARBATOV- Ph.D., Head of RAS IMEMO PMFC, State Duma Deputy, Deputy Chairman of the State Duma Defense Committee, V.S. BELOUS- Ph.D., Leading Research Associate of the Institute of International Economy and Foreign Relations (IMEMO) of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Professor of the Military Sciences Academy, Major General (Ret.), A.A. PIKAEV- Candidate of Political Sciences, Head of the RAS IMEMO PMFC Non-Proliferation and Arms Reduction Center, Assistant State Duma Deputy, V.G. BARANOVSKY- Ph.D., Deputy Director, RAS IMEMO, “De-alerting Russian and US nuclear weapons: A path to reducing nuclear dangers” Institute of International Economy and Foreign Relations at the Russian Academy of Sciences, http://www.ieer.org/russian/pubs/dlrtbk-e.html)
“The capability of…massive nuclear strikes”

Continued Proliferations makes deterrence break down and regional nuclear war is very likely
Robert Pfaltzgraff, Professor of International Security Studies at The Fletcher School @ Tufts, and James Schoff, the Associate Director of Asia-Pacific Studies at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis (IFPA), Feburary 2009, “Updating U.S. Deterrence Concepts and Operational Planning,” IFPA White Paper, online
“Moreover, as suggested…regional nuclear conflict”

Regional Nuclear war erodes the nuclear firebreak risking global nuclear war
Schwartz, William A., and Charles Derber, et al The Nuclear Seduction: Why the Arms Race Doesn't Matter--And What Does. Berkeley: University of California Press, c1990
“Before examining whether…large-scale thermonuclear war”

The existence of nuclear weapons makes nuclear war inevitable – multiple factors make the existence of nuclear weapons like a game of Russian Roulette – the end result is a virtual inevitability of nuclear war
Martin Hellman, Professor of Engineering at Stanford 1988
http://www-ee.stanford.edu/~hellman/Breakthrough/book/chapters/hellman.html#Nuclear
“Every day, the…war virtually inevitable”

Nuclear retaliation would cause nuclear winter
Alan Robock, Luke Oman, and Georgiy L. Stenchikov, Dep. of Env. Sciences @ Rutgers, April 2007, “Nuclear Winter Revisited,” J. of Geophysical Research-Atmospheres, http://www.envsci.rutgers.edu/~gera/nwinter/nw6accepted.pdf
“As first suggested…a nuclear winter”

Nuclear winter causes extinction
Carl Sagan, Astrophysicist Prof, 2-8-1985, “Nuclear War and Nuclear Winter,” Commonwealth Club, http://www.commonwealthclub.org/archive/20thcentury/85-02sagan-speech.html
“Now, if you…extinction is forever”

Risk of extinction through nuclear war outweighs everything, and we must dispose of this threat first.
Johnathan Schell. 2000. The Fate of Earth: The Abolition. Pg. 95-96
“Up to now…and to ourselves”

Only complete disarmament solves
Alan Robock, climatology prof @ Rutgers, 2009, “Nuclear Winter,” Earth Portal, http://www.earthportal.org/?p=1481
“The work on…nuclear environmental catastrophe”

==Negative== 

CP Text: States ought not possess nuclear weapons except the United States should retain an extremely limited arsenal of nuclear weapons with the sole purpose of deflecting near – earth – object and preventing its collision with the earth.

Observation 1:
a. Topicality irrelevant
b. 100% solvency for aff

Observation 2 (Net Benefits):

And, asteroid strike is likely – and even if it isn’t the risk is so great we should treat it as a certainty
Easterbrook, Editor – the Atlantic – 2008 (Greg, http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/)
“A generation ago…riding on the plane”

Asteroid impact is likely and outweighs nuclear war – we must treat the possibility of asteroid impact as a certainty
Kunich ’97
(John, Lt. Colonel USAF, B.S., M.S., University of Illinois; J.D., Harvard Law School; LL.M., George Washington University School of Law, Staff Judge Advocate 50th Space Wing, Falcon Air Force Base, 41 Air Force L. Rev. 119, lexis)
“Irrespective of the…god of probabilities”

Solvency:
Third, we must retain nuclear weapons to prevent inevitable catastrophic asteroid collision
IAA ‘9
(International Academy of Astronautics, “Dealing with the Threat To Earth From Asteroids and Comets,”
http://iaaweb.org/iaa/Scientific%20Activity/Study%20Groups/SG%20Commission%203/sg35/sg35finalreport.pdf)
“In summary…question of WHEN”

And, Nuclear disarmament dooms us to extinction from asteroid collisions – it will not be possible to rebuild weapons in time to deflect the asteroid
Beljac, Foreign Policy in Focus contributor, PhD from Monash University, 2010
<Marko, Defending Humanity from Near Earth Objects Jan, 24 http://scisec.net/?p=223>
“The report has…through the issues”

US deflection is key – relying on international efforts to deflect risks extinction
Dinerman ‘9
(Taylor, journalist for the Space Review “The new politics of planetary defense,” The Space Review, 7-20, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1418/1)
“While the US…stage for a disaster” 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
**__Racism AC__**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Standard: Liberation of Racism</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Racism dooms the planet – it must rejected.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Joseph Barndt, Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America, 1991, p. 155-56</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "To study racism is to study walls... not allow it to continue."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Racism denies the minorities the right to feel human.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Michael Billig, Loughborough University, “Humor and hatred: the racist jokes of the Ku Klux Klan” Discourse & Society, Copyright 2001. Volume 12, No. 3, pp. 267-289</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "The article...violent humour."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> DEHUMANIZATION IS THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL; IT CAUSES GENOCIDE, SLAVERY, STERILIZATION, AND SUBJUGATION</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Katz, 1997 (Katheryn D. Katz, prof. of law - Albany Law School, 1997, Albany Law Journal )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "It is undeniable...misery of others."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> DEHUMANIZATION IS WORSE THAN NUCLEAR WAR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Montagu and Matson, Author and Professor of American at the University of Hawaii, 1983 (Ashley and Floyd, THE DEHUMANIZATION OF MAN, preface)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "It neither...is dehumanization."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Contention 1</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Mandatory minimums display racism and increase it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Even Obama’s democratic policies on mandatory minimums retain the racist nature of these principles.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Russ Belville, July 28, 2010 “Democrats make crack cocaine sentencing slightly less racist” <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://stash.norml.org/democrats-make-crack-cocaine-sentencing-slightly-less-racist]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "So Congress, controlled...racist to blacks."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Beyond the crack and powder cocaine distinction, mandatory minimum systems regarding illegal drugs are racist.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> “General Effect of Mandatory Minimum Prison Terms” B S Meierhoefer, Federal Judicial Ctr Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building United States, 1992, NCJ 137258</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "Although there... their white counterparts."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Contention 2:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Mandatory minimums specifically target minorities. Institutionalizes racism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Olatunde Johnson, Professor of Law at Columbia, 08 <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www3.law.columbia.edu/hrlr/hrlr_journal/39.1/j.%20OJohnson-F.pdf]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> LEGISLATING RACIAL FAIRNESS IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE -- Associate Professor, Columbia University School of Law. B.A., Yale University; J.D., Stanford Law School. For helpful research assistance I thank Aimee Pringle and Aslihan Bulut of the Columbia Law School Library. The ideas in this article were originally presented at the symposium entitled “Pursuing Racial Fairness in the Administration of Justice: Twenty Years After McCleskey v. Kemp,” held by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and Columbia Law School on March 2–3, 2007.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "The factors... drug offenders."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> DPA corroborates Johnson’s point:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> “Race and the Criminal Justice System” Drug Policy Alliance [1] – organization that provides policy alternatives to the drug war. August 2001</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "Unequal treatment of ... profiling and punitive drug policies."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Contention 3:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Drug laws racist.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> The Sentencing Project. October 4, 2001. “Crack Cocaine Sentencing Policy: Unjustified and Unreasonable.” See <<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.sentencingproject.org/pdfs/1003.pdf]]</span>> (June 16, 2004).</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "Approximately 2/3 of ...than white men and women."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> This treatment option eliminates the racist nature of the current drug criminalization system.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> “Race and the Criminal Justice System” Drug Policy Alliance [2] – organization that provides policy alternatives to the drug war. August 2001</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "Affluent predominantly white...particularly to people of color."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Treatment helps these drug abusers by stopping the self-harm they commit by abusing illicit drugs by curbing addiction.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Transformations, a Drug & Alchohol Treatment Center. How Can a Drug Treatment Center Help Someone You Love.<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.transformationstreatment.com/contact.html]]</span> Last Edited on October 26th, 2010.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "A successful drug rehab...drug treatment program."</span>
NeedleSharing AC
Framework = consequentialism
1. States = consequentialist ethics
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">John</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Hasnas</span>** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[associate professor of business at Georgetown’s McDonough School of Business, visiting associate professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center, J.D. and Ph.D. in Legal Philosophy from Duke University]. "From cannibalism to caesareans: two conceptions of fundamental rights." //Nortwestern University Law Review// 89 (1995): 900</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 24px;">"But consider now...standard operating procedure"</span>

====<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px; line-height: 24px;">2. Morality -> Consequentialism</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12px;">**Cummiskey**, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">David. Kantian Consequentialism. 1990 //Ethics// Vol. 100, No. 3 (Apr., 1990), pp. 586-615 Published by: The University of Chicago Press</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"We have a...to save many"</span>

Plan Text: All US states governments and municipalities that have drug paraphernalia laws or regulations, restricting needle exchange programs should repeal those laws and regulations and should implement needle exchange programs, I reserve the right to clarify. 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">NEPs are an issue of public health.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">NATIONAL Pointed Debate over Needle Exchange Programs by Makebra M. </span>**__Anderson__** //<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">NNPA, National Correspondent http://www.blackpressusa.com/news/Article.asp?SID=3&Title=National+News&NewsID=3863</span>//</span>
//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The senior scientists...Surgeon General wrote."</span>


<span style="font-size: 12px;">Observation 1: Uniqueness</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Criminal justice system hampers NEPs.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">“State Laws Block Funds For Needle Exchange” Lauren</span> **__Browne__**__,__ <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://columbianewsservice.com/2010/02/state-laws-foil-new-federal-funding-for-life-saving-needle-exchange/]], Columbia News Service </span>February 1, **__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">2010</span>__**</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">**"Health experts...grass-roots advocates"**</span>

<span style="font-size: 12px;">Criminal justice system hampers NEPs.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Goldberg</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Lina. Legal Issues Surrounding Syringe Exchange Programs [Internet]. Version 4. Knol. 2008 Jul 28. Available from: </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://knol.google.com/k/lina-goldberg/legal-issues-surrounding-syringe/18lnh961rb830/6]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"Once the arguments...their clients"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Possession of syringes is illegal.</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Bluthenthal</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Ricky N., et al, "Drug Paraphernalia and Injection-Related Infectious Disease Risk Among Drug Injectors." </span>//<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">Journal of Drug Issues</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">. 1999; 29(1): pp. 1-16. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"Drug paraphernalia laws...Northern California"</span>


<span style="font-size: 12px;">Observation 2: NEPs solve AIDS/Hepatitis.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">80% of all AIDS infections in the US are a result of sharing contaminated needles</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;"> **__Gafni__** <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">et. al, ’97 (August, PhD from McMaster University, Canadian Medical Association Journal, [[http://www.cmaj.ca/cgi/reprint/157/3/255.pdf]])</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;"> Needle exchange programs: an economic evaluation of a local experience Michelle Gold,* MSW; Amiram Gafni,*† PhD; Penny Nelligan,‡ RN, BScN; Peggy Millson,§ MD, MHScEvidence Études From *the Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics and †the Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ont.; ‡the Hamilton–Wentworth Regional Public Health Department (a teaching health unit affiliated with McMaster University and the University of Guelph); and §the HIV Social, Behavioural and Epidemiological Research Unit, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ont. Can Med Assoc J1997;157:255-62</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">"AIDS is ... will reduce transmission"</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 6pt;">Needle exchange programs have been proven to prevent HIV and hepatitis </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">CDC</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Center for Disease Control, December 2005 (CDC, Center for Disease Control, “Syringe Exchange Programs” Report to Congress, December 2005 </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cdc.gov/idu/facts/aed_idu_syr.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"To succeed in...infected with HIV"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Needle Exchange programs have high return rates.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Kate</span> **__Ksobiech [1]__** <span style="font-size: 16px;"><span class="citation-abbreviation"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Harm Reduct J.</span></span> <span class="citation-publication-date"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">2004;</span></span> <span class="citation-volume"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">1</span></span><span class="citation-flpages"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">: 2.</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> <span class="fm-vol-iss-date">Published online 2004 April 19. doi:</span> </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">10.1186/1477-7517-1-2</span></span></span><span class="fm-vol-iss-date"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span></span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Return Rates for Needle Exchange Programs: A Common Criticism Answered </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Center for AIDS Intervention Research (CAIR), Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, 2071 N. Summit Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53202, United States Corresponding author. Kate Ksobiech: [[mailto:kksobiec@mcw.edu|kksobiec@mcw.edu]] April 19, 2004.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"The overall return...presence of HIV"</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">NEPs encourage participation.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Kate</span> **__Ksobiech [2]__** </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span class="citation-abbreviation"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Harm Reduct J.</span></span> <span class="citation-publication-date"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">2004;</span></span> <span class="citation-volume"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">1</span></span><span class="citation-flpages"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">: 2.</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> <span class="fm-vol-iss-date">Published online 2004 April 19. doi:</span> </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"><span class="MsoHyperlink"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">10.1186/1477-7517-1-2</span></span></span><span class="fm-vol-iss-date"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span> </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Return Rates for Needle Exchange Programs: A Common Criticism Answered </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Center for AIDS Intervention Research (CAIR), Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, 2071 N. Summit Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53202, United States Corresponding author. Kate Ksobiech: [[mailto:kksobiec@mcw.edu|kksobiec@mcw.edu]] April 19, 2004.</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"The latest available...and/or services"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Observation 3: Impact</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">The spread of AIDS causes mutations that risk extinction </span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Paul</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> **__Ehrlich__** </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt;">and Anne Ehrlich, Professors of Population studies at Stanford University, THE POPULATION EXPLOSION, 1990, p. 147-8</span></span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 7pt; text-align: justify;">"Whether or not...transmissible through coughs"</span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 9px; text-align: justify;">AIDS - > extinction</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">(Joshua </span>**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">Lederberg</span>__****<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';">, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Molecular biologist and Nobel Prize winner in 1958, </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">1991</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;"> In Time of Plague: The History and Social Consequences of Lethal Epidemic Disease, p 35-6)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">"Will AIDS mutate...</span>









==Negative== 
Link 1: Public health is a form of social control
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Alan R.</span> <span class="AuthorDateChar">Petersen</span>. <span style="font-weight: normal;">Senior Lecturer in Sociology at Murdoch University, Western Australia. 19</span><span class="AuthorDateChar">97</span>. 
<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Foucault, health and medicine, Page 100-101. </span>
“All this is not…of good health”

Link 2: Medicalization of social problems justifies biopolitical control.
<span style="font-weight: normal; position: relative; top: -0.5pt;">Peter </span><span class="AuthorDateChar">Conrad.</span><span style="font-weight: normal;"> Department of Sociology, Brandeis University; Department of Sociology, Drake University. Annu. Rev. Sociol. 19</span><span class="AuthorDateChar">92</span> <span style="font-weight: normal;">18:209-32: Medicalization and Social Control, Page 216-217. </span>
“To these categories…for self-regulation”

Link 3: Healthcare system creates slaves of the state.
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Robert A</span>. <span class="AuthorDateChar">Nye</span>.<span style="font-weight: normal;"> Professor of the Humanities and pro­fessor of history at Oregon State University</span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">. </span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">Journal of History of the Behavioral Sciences, Vol. 39(2), 115-129 Spring 20</span><span class="AuthorDateChar">03</span>: <span style="font-weight: normal;">The Evolution of the Concept of Medicalization In The Late Twentieth Century, Page 119-120. </span>
“However, reluctant or not…filth and disorder”

Impact: Genocide
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Michael Foucault. The History of Sexuality. Volume 1: The Introduction: Chapter 5. 1978. Pantheon Books. </span>
“Since the classical…phenomena of population”

Alt: stop biopolitical control
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Pickett</span> Associate professor of Political Science at Chaldron State College 2**0<span class="AuthorDateChar">05</span>** [//On the Use and Abuse of Foucault For Politics// pp. 42-43]
“The ultimate goal…never exist again”

Framework: K comes first because fiat is illusory.
START DA
A. Uniqueness: START will pass
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Edith <span class="AuthorDateChar">Lederer</span>, AP Staff Writer. 10/5/<span class="AuthorDateChar">10</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5jeaEUqJosGx9Fg__x6DCuiGAUNpwD9ILS9C00?docId=D9ILS9C00__</span>
__<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">"The Obama administration...Oct. 1, 1992"</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">B. Link: </span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-weight: normal;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Obama’s passing of Needle Exchange Program federal funding and the removal of these state paraphernalia laws will destroy his political capital.</span>**</span>__

===__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 12pt;">Alex Blaze </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">May 20, 2009 “</span><span style="color: #71483d; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.bilerico.com/2009/05/needle_exchange_isnt_a_priority_and_prob.php|Needle exchange isn't a priority and probably won't ]]</span>**</span>__=== 


__<span style="color: #71483d; font-size: 8pt;">**"**</span><span style="color: #71483d; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Sure, the White...style wins out"</span>__

__<span style="color: #71483d; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: #043873; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 11pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://stopthedrugwar.org/user/dborden|David Borden]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 11pt;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">July 10, 2009, 03:16pm</span>**//<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #043873; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">[[http://stopthedrugwar.org/speakeasy/2009/jul/10/big_news_house_subcommittee_appr|Big News: House Subcommittee Approves Legislation Eliminating the Needle Exchange Funding Ban]]</span>//**</span>__
__<span style="color: #71483d; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">**//<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #043873; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">"This isn't a...opposing harm reduction"</span>//**</span>__

__<span style="color: #71483d; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">**//<span style="border: 1pt none windowtext; color: #043873; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; padding: 0in;">C. </span>//**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 19px;">Obama’s political capital’s is key to START [[#_GoBack]]passage</span></span>__

__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;"> <span class="cite">Rogov 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sergey, director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute, January, BBC, “Russian Russian pundit views </span><span class="term"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">'s first year, prospects for relations with USA,” p. Lexis)</span></span>**__
__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">"The domestic political...the United States"</span>**__


__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Failure to pass START in the lame duck session dooms US Russian relations.</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Forbes 10/25/10 </span>__
__<span style="display: inline ! important; font-size: 8pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.forbes.com/feeds/ap/2010/10/25/politics-us-us-elections-foreign-policy-analysis_8043448.html?boxes=Homepagebusinessnews]]</span>**</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">"But Obama's foreign...New START treaty"</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">US-Russian relations are critical to prevent Russian nationalism.</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Simes 7</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Dimitri, President of the Nixon Center and Publisher of The National Interest, http://www.russiaprofile.org/page.php?pageid=CDI+Russia+Profile+List&articleid=a1193837742, AD: 7/5/10) </span></span>__
__<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">"But if the...potentially catastrophic effects"</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">D. **<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Nationalist revival causes US-Russian nuclear war</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span>__
__<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Israelyan 98</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Victor, Former Soviet ambassador, diplomat, arms control negotiator, and leading political scientist, Winter, Washington Quarterly) </span>__
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">"The first and...fall down together"</span>__



<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">__<span style="display: block; font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal; text-align: left;">US Russia nuclear war causes extinction.</span>__</span>


**<span style="font-family: Times;">Nick Bostrum </span>__**<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt;">Exsistential Risks. Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards. Nick Bostrum. Ph.D. Philosophy at Oxford. Vol. 9. 2002. 2001.</span>
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 10pt; margin: 0.1pt 0in;">"A much greater...the 21st century"</span>

<span style="font-size: 110%;">Stop Bashing China DA</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">**A. Uniqueness: Obama is holding back**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ian Swanson, 9/14/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> “Punishing China becomes issue for Democrats in midterm election,” [[http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/118813-punishing-china-becomes-issue-in-midterm-election-]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Just a vote legislation back."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> B. Link: Reform of US drug laws will drain Obama’s political capital – the affirmative is highly controversial</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Huffington Post 8/9/09</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/norm-stamper/drug-prohibition-and-the_b_255006.html]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "There's little doubt...on health care."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> C. Internal link: Obama’s political capital is key to prevent China bashing and a decline in the trade relationship</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Ide 10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> (William, Washington Bureau – VOA, “US, China Meet to Smooth Ties; Analysts Say Big Challenges Remain”, Voice of America News, 9-8, [[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/asia/US-China-Meet-to-Smooth-Ties-Analysts-Say-Big-Challenges-Remain-102472234.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "Liberthal noted...said Liberthal."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Obama’s political capital is key to check China bashing protectionist legislation</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Financial Times 9/12/10</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> [Alan Beattie, “Beijing currency saga returns,” September 12, 2010, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/716f8442-be86-11df-a755-00144feab49a.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "The Obama...on an airliner."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> D. Impact – protectionism against China collapses trade, the global economy, and causes US/China war</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Droke, 10 – Editor of the Momentum Strategies Report (3/29/10, Green Faucet, “America and the Next Major War,” [[http://www.greenfaucet.com/technical-analysis/america-and-the-next-major-war/79314]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "In the current phase...suffer," writes Barker."</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> US China war causes global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> Johnson, 1 (5/14/01, The Nation, “Time to Bring the Troops Home,” [[http://www.thenation.com/article/time-bring-troops-home]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> "No sane...nuclear holocaust."</span>









=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 

===Guantanamo Bay AC=== 

It is important to note that typical punishment for juveniles sentenced in adult court is still separate from adults. Derrick Johnson writes:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Derrick Johnson, Healthy Families and Communities Subcommittee, U.S. House of Representatives Education and Labor Committee joint hearing with the Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security Subcommittee U.S. House of Representatives Judiciary Committee The Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (JJDPA): Overview and Perspectives 2175 Rayburn H.O.B. July 12, 2007, 2:00 pm Testimony by Derrick Johnson, Vice-Chair Arizona Juvenile Justice Commission </span>
The Value is Morality. 

States necessarily must use utilitarian ethics. 
Robert Goodin. Fellow of philosophy at Australian National University, 1990 (The Utilitarian Response)

The only way to determine the desirability of two competing options is to compare their consequences. Examining morality using simple rules is doomed to fail. 
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Richard Rorty, “Pragmatism, Relativism, and Irrationalism,” //Proceedings and Addresses of the American Philosophical Association//, Vol. 53, No. 6. (Aug., 1980), pp. 717+719-738. Stable URL: http://links.jstor.org/sici?sici=0065-972X%28198008%2953%3A6%3C717%3APRAI%3E2.0.CO%3B2-Y</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">My thesis is that all juveniles charged with violent felonies should be transferred via statutory exclusion to criminal court. </span>**

**Contention 1 is Due Process. Juveniles held at Guantanamo Bay are in a legal black hole that denies them due process rights.**
First, The US holds many juvenile detainees in the war on terror – they are tried in military tribunals.
**Al-Ahram Weekly** Online International Eddition (Cairo News Paper) June **2008** http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2008/901/in3.htm

<span style="line-height: 115%; margin-bottom: 10pt;">**And, this treatment of child prisoner is a unique violation of international norms for due process.**</span>
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin-bottom: 10pt;"><span class="dateline2"><span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Jo Becker. “Torture policy.” __Salon__. Jun 24, 2008 www.salon.com/news/feature/2008/06/24/juveniles_at_gitmo/index.html</span></span></span>
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin-bottom: 10pt;">**<span style="line-height: 115%;">And, Military Commissions are deeply flawed procedurally.</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin-bottom: 10pt;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Human Rights Watch</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">. “<span style="color: #42210b;">US: Revival of Guantanamo Military Commissions a Blow to Justice</span>” May 15, **__2009__**. http://www.hrw.org/en/news/2009/05/15/us-revival-guantanamo-military-commissions-blow-justice</span></span>

<span style="line-height: 115%; margin-bottom: 10pt;">**And, moving to criminal court would solve several key due process concerns:**</span>
<span style="line-height: 115%; margin-bottom: 10pt;">**__<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">Human Rights Watch</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%;">. “US: New Legislation on Military Commissions Doesn’t Fix Fundamental Flaws” October 8, **__2009__**. http://www.hrw.org/en/news/2009/10/08/us-new-legislation-military-commissions-doesn-t-fix-fundamental-flaws</span></span>

**<span style="color: black;">Moreover, the commissions are unconstitutional. </span>**
<span style="color: black;">LT. COL. DARRELL **VANDEVELD** </span> “Legal issues surrounding the military commissions system.” Hearing before the subcommittee on the constitution, civil rights, and civil liberties of the committee on the judiciary House of Representatives. One hundred eleventh Congress first session. July 8, **2009**
**Respecting the Constitution is critical to human survival – looking to any other framework justifies human suffering and destroys agency. Henkin states:**
**Henkin, 88**, Professor of Law at Columbia (Louis, Atlantic Community Qtly, Spring)

No impact can justify violating the constitution – it is the ultimate constraint on government action. Carter writes:
Stephen L. Carter, professor of law at Yale (Brigham Young University Law Review No. 3, p. 75 1-2) 1987


<span style="line-height: 115%; margin-bottom: 10pt;">**Contention 2 is Separation of Powers**</span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Failure to check executive power risks nuclear extinction</span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adler, 96</span></span> <span style="color: black;">(David, professor of political science at Idaho State, __The Constitution and Conduct of American Foreign Policy__, p. 23-25)</span>


Contention 2/3 is Soft power
First, trial in military commissions are not seen as legitimate legal instruments- their use hurts our international reputation
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Anthony D. </span><span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Romero</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">- executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union- February 16, </span><span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, Terrorists Are Criminals and Should be Tried in Civilian Court, US News and World Report, http://politics.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2010/02/16/terrorists-are-criminals-and-should-be-tried-in-civilian-court.html?PageNr=1</span>

AND, US refusal to grant due process rights to detainees damages our soft power 
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Coleman</span> <span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wagner</span></span>- <span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2009,</span></span> <span style="font-weight: normal;">Soft Power and International Public Opinion: U.S Presidents and the Treatment of Prisoners of War, http://web3.unt.edu/honors/eaglefeather/wp-content/2009/08/Wagner_Coleman.pdf</span>
And soft power is key to coalition building – it is critical to hegemony and to solving terrorism
James **__Steinberg__**, Dean of the Lyndon Johnson School of Public Affairs at Texas Austin, “Real Leaders Do Soft Power: Learning the Lessons of Iraq,” Washington Quarterly, Spring, **__2008__**
Failure to prevent terrorism risks nuclear extinction
Sid-Ahmed ‘4
(Mohamed-, Al Ahram weekly, “Extinction!”, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]])

AND Soft power is key to US hegemony
Joseph **__Nye__**, Distinguished Professor at Harvard and Former Dean of the Kennedy School of Government, “Recovering American Leadership,” Survival, March **__2008__**
And, collapse of hegemony risks multiple nuclear wars
Niall **__Fergusen__**, Professor of History at New York University, Foreign Policy, July / August **__2004__**
<span class="CardsFont12pt">Finally, Juvenile detainees should be tried in federal criminal courts – this is key to both the rule of law and to promote US soft power</span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ACLU</span></span><span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 4/27/</span></span><span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span></span>
<span class="CardsFont12pt"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">http://www.aclu.org/national-security/discredited-military-commissions-resume-despite-persistent-flaws</span></span>

==Negative== 

===Mckiever CP=== 
**Text: The United States Supreme Court should overturn the ruling in the “McKiever vs. Pennsylvania” case and, in its holdings, require all juveniles charged with violent crimes to be given trial by jury in the juvenile justice system.**

**Observation 1. Solvency: The counterplan solves the due process violations stemming from the lack of trial by jury in the juvenile justice system.**

Kropf, Sara E. [[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/|Georgetown Law Journal]], ; Overturning McKeiver v. Pennsylvania: The unconstitutionality of using prior convictions to enhance adult sentences under the sentencing guidelines
<span style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; vertical-align: baseline;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/is_199906/ai_n8866565/pg_19/?tag=content;col1]] ; <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/is_199906/|Jun 19 ]]</span>[[http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3805/is_199906/|**99**]]</span>
__"The Supreme Cour____t... today's reality.__ "'64"

**Observation 2. Competition**
**The counterplan is mutually exclusive because it extends the benefits of the Adult court to the Juvenile court. It cannot be permed, because it is impossible to try Juveniles in two courts at once.**

Observation 3. Net Benefits
The Counterplan avoids all of the case turns.


=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]