[[toc]]


=Affirmative= 

==1AC== 
===Advantage 1 is Naval Nationalism=== 

**China’s is rising peacefully now, but US containment efforts change that**

Kreg S. <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Stonestreet</span></span>, 5-21-20<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Supervisory Special Agent, FBI,</span></span> “Power and Stability: Promises and Perils of an Economically Strong China,” School of Advanced Military Studies, United States Army Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, KS, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA523211

These were prescient words by Theodore Roosevelt, uttered over a hundred years ago when America was the rising power and Great Britain was worrying about losing its supremacy. Now China is becoming increasingly powerful, the relative power of the United States is decreasing, and the significant separation between the two will continue to narrow. It won’t happen overnight, but an economically strong China will continue to narrow the gap. So what should the United States do about it? Does an economically strong China threaten its national security interests? As with everything involving the complex relationship with China, there are no clear cut answers. China has the potential to affect United States national security interests in myriad ways. Yes, an economically strong China provides the means for a more formidable Chinese military. But the primary threat to the United States does not derive from military capabilities. It is highly unlikely China would confront the United States directly militarily (with the possible exception of a conflict over Taiwan). China is well aware the United States military is in a league of its own. A more powerful military does increasingly provide China potential capabilities to deny the United States access, but it would be at a point much farther into the future before China would even consider confronting the United States in that manner. / Instead, economic strength provides China power and influence it can exploit in any number of ways. It can certainly affect the United States economically through competitive means, trade restrictions, changing the international system to provide it competitive advantages, and applying pressures through its holdings of United States debt. More importantly, though, economic strength provides China power and influence which it can use as a counter to American power and influence. China’s strategic goals are not focused on overcoming or defeating the presence of the United States in Asia, they are all about preventing the United States from being able to interfere in China’s internal affairs. The power and influence of the United States which most concerns China is that which could prevent China from continuing its economic development and which they perceive as interfering in its internal affairs. The fact that China tends to view most actions and policy of the United States through a lens which perceives those actions in Asia as attempts to interfere in China’s internal affairs or to contain China’s growth, is problematic. On the other hand, China has no illusions of its ability to, nor does it have the desire to, replace the United States as a global power anytime in the foreseeable future. China just wants to ensure the United States is not so powerful that it can interfere in China’s affairs as it pleases.245 In other words, the problem or threat the United States faces from an economically strong China is not necessarily evident from its strategic goals, it is in how China perceives and reacts to policies and behaviors of the United States. An economically strong China could pose some threats to United States national security interests, but does the alternative really present a better scenario? An economically weaker China also carries with it significant threats to United States national security interests. It would undoubtedly lead to instability in China. Instability in a country with twenty percent of the world’s population is a dangerous proposition. Instability would likely spread throughout Asia, and it would require considerable attention and resources from the United States to address. America’s national security interests are best served by global stability, and an economically strong China, not an economically dominant one, provides the better opportunity for stability. / If an economically strong China is considered favorable for United States interests, how does the United States manage that growth and not be surpassed as the global economic leader at some point in the future, thereby losing the many advantages it derives from that level of influence and control. Containment is not a viable option, nor is outright accommodation. A mix of the two would have to do. It means focusing on the opportunities associated with an economically strong China, and there are many, while picking the right spots to pressure or oppose China, and there will be many of those as well. / As former Singaporean Ambassador to the United Nations Kishore Mahbubani has noted, too many Western minds are looking only at the dangers associated with China and Asia’s rise; few are looking at opportunities.246 There is indeed tremendous opportunity for the West and the rest of the world in the modernization and economic development of China. America must not close its mind to those opportunities and needs to consider the opportunities in its strategic planning and in the actions it takes. As Samuel Huntington states in his book, The Clash of Civilizations, “…the peoples and governments of non-Western civilization no longer remain the objects of history as targets of Western colonization but join the West as movers and shakers of history.”247

**That causes naval nationalism in response to US presence**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kaplan, 10 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The Geog­ra­phy of Chi­nese Power,” Foreign Affairs, NJ) </span>

GETTING SEA LEGS / Thanks to this favorable situation on land, China is now free to work at building a great navy. Whereas coastal city-states and island nations pursue sea power as a matter of course, doing so is a luxury for historically insular continental powers such as China. In China's case, this might be a luxury that is fairly easy to acquire since the country is as blessed by its seaboard as by its continental interior. China dominates the East Asian coastline in the temperate and tropical zones of the Pacific, and its southern border is close enough to the Indian Ocean that it might one day be linked to it by roads and energy pipelines. In the twenty-first century, China will project hard power abroad primarily through its navy. / That said, it faces a far more hostile environment at sea than it does on land. The Chinese navy sees little but trouble in what it calls the "first island chain": the Korean Peninsula, the Kuril Islands, Japan (including the Ryukyu Islands), Taiwan, the Philippines, Indonesia, and Australia. All except for Australia are potential flashpoints. China is already embroiled in various disputes over parts of the energy-rich ocean beds of the East China Sea and the South China Sea: with Japan over the Diaoyu/Senkaku Islands and with the Philippines and Vietnam over the Spratly Islands. Such disputes allow Beijing to stoke nationalism at home, but for Chinese naval strategists, this seascape is mostly grim. This first island chain is, in the words James Holmes and Toshi Yoshihara of the U.S. Naval War College, a kind of "Great Wall in reverse": a well-organized line of U.S. allies that serve as a sort of guard tower to monitor and possibly block China's access to the Pacific Ocean. / China's answer to feeling so boxed in has been aggressive at times. Naval power is usually more benign than land power: navies cannot by themselves occupy vast areas and must do far more than fight -- namely, protect commerce. Thus, one might have expected China to be as benevolent as other maritime nations before it -- Venice, Great Britain, the United States -- and to concern itself primarily, as those powers did, with preserving a peaceful maritime system, including the free movement of trade. But China is not so self-confident. Still an insecure sea power, it thinks about the ocean territorially: the very terms "first island chain" and "second island chain" (the second island chain includes the U.S. territories of Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands) suggest that the Chinese see all these islands as archipelagic extensions of the Chinese landmass. In thinking in such a zero-sum fashion about their country's adjoining seas, China's naval leaders are displaying the aggressive philosophy of the turn-of-the-twentieth-century U.S. naval strategist Alfred Thayer Mahan, who argued for sea control and the decisive battle. But they do not yet have the blue-water force to apply it, and this discrepancy between aspirations and means has led to some awkward incidents over the past few years. In October 2006, a Chinese submarine stalked the USS Kitty Hawk and then surfaced within a torpedo's firing range of it. In November 2007, the Chinese denied the USS Kitty Hawk carrier strike group entry into Victoria Harbor when it was seeking a respite from building seas and deteriorating weather. (The Kitty Hawk did make a visit to Hong Kong in 2010.) In March 2009, a handful of PLA navy ships harassed the U.S. surveillance ship the USNS Impeccable while it was openly conducting operations outside China's 12-mile territorial limit in the South China Sea, blocking its way and pretending to ram it. These are the actions not of a great power but of a still immature one.


**<span class="Cite">And, naval nationalism drives modernization and kills relations – only reducing presence solves </span>**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ross, 9 </span></span>
(Robert S, Professor of Political Science at Boston College, Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard University, “China’s Naval Nationalism,” International Security, Vol 34, Number 2, Fall 09, Project Muse, NJ)

Nearly all Chinese security analysts concur that China’s security is increasingly dependent on vulnerable sea-lanes. More moderate “naval pragmatists” argue, however, that the cost for China of pursuing blue-water maritime power is excessive. They contend that the United States will be determined to maintain its maritime superiority, that China lacks the resources to compete in a great-power naval competition, and that an effort to build a blue-water, power-projection navy will undermine Chinese security. Therefore, China should focus its limited resources on its submarine-based access-denial capability, while maintaining great power cooperation to secure its access to global resources. One senior academic described the aircraft carrier as a “black hole” for Chinese funds and argues that China could better use its resources to acquire additional submarines.[[#f88-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f88|88]]</span> China’s authoritative military publications frequently remind their readers that land powers face considerable difficulty in developing maritime power and that interrupting and securing sea-lanes, as well as occupying small coral islands (e.g., the disputed Spratly Islands), are very difficult operations. They often advocate that China focus on more realistic objectives, including development of asymmetric maritime capabilities. Some military analysts tend to be dismissive of “amateurs” who advocate naval power.[[#f89-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f89|89]]</span> / China’s naval pragmatists also stress the damage that a carrier program would inflict on Chinese diplomacy. They argue that whereas a carrier would have minimum benefit for Chinese security, it would undermine China’s peaceful rise strategy by accentuating the role of “hard power” in Chinese diplomacy. [End Page 72] After nearly thirty years of successful management of the “rise of China,” they are concerned that construction of a power-projection navy would undermine both U.S.-China relations and China’s relationship with Southeast Asian countries. Foreign ministry officials tend to oppose construction of an aircraft carrier, sensitive to the impact on Chinese diplomacy. But in the current nationalistic environment, they have minimal influence on defense policy. In addition, they recognize that they cannot offset the pressure from Chinese society.[[#f90-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f90|90]]</span> Chinese nationalists dismiss the potential costs of a naval buildup. Rather than address the challenge of simultaneous development of land and maritime capabilities and of naval competition with the United States, naval nationalists assert that China should devote equal resources to both theaters. Some nationalists argue that because China faces challenges from both Russia and the United States and because it confronts many neighbors on both land and sea, it must simultaneously pursue land and naval capabilities and that failure to develop both land and sea power will constrain China’s great power role in world affairs.[[#f91-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f91|91]]</span> One author argues that China’s strategic orientation toward both land and sea is a geopolitical advantage and that the development of large-scale ground and naval forces serves Chinese comprehensive power and is the optimal deployment of Chinese forces.[[#f92-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f92|92]]</span> Another author acknowledges that the U.S. network of global naval bases is a strategic advantage for the U.S. Navy, but this simply requires that China build an aircraft carrier with greater displacement than U.S. carriers.[[#f93-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f93|93]]</span> China’s challenge to the maritime status quo would likely elicit a U.S. response that not only would offset China’s buildup but also could contribute to costly U.S.-China tension. Nonetheless, following the onset of the global financial crisis and the U.S. recession in 2008, many Chinese nationalists believe that the United States is a declining power and that China has the opportunity to develop a powerful navy.[[#f94-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f94|94]]</span> Moreover, they argue that China has “no choice but to build a navy centered on the aircraft carrier”; it cannot allow U.S. strategic advantages to inhibit Chinese naval planning. One author states, “If [End Page 73] this logic prevails, if there came a time when the United States occupies a strategic location on the Chinese mainland, should China then be compelled not to develop an army?”[[#f95-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f95|95]]</span> Chinese scholars acknowledge that the determination of the United States to protect its maritime supremacy could lead it to inflict a “Copenhagen” on the PLA Navy.[[#f96-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f96|96]]</span> Nonetheless, China “should not be afraid of drawing fire against itself so that China’s national security is completely constrained by external conditions and it is powerless.” If the “hegemon” so “dreads Chinese naval power that it would launch a preventive attack, this simply proves . . . that China must definitely develop a powerful maritime force.”[[#f97-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f97|97]]</span> Ultimately, China’s naval buildup could lead to U.S.-China tension that could exceed tension over Taiwan, but China “has to do what it has to do.” It cannot “seek to please the United States. . . . Why should China build weapons that the United States does not care about?” Rather, it should build the very weapons that the United States “cares most about.”[[#f98-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f98|98]]</span>


**And, a strong relationship is key to prevent conflict**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Roy, 3 </span></span>
(J. Stapleton, Managing Director at Kissinger Associates, “U.S-China Relations in the Twenty-first Century”, pg 106, NJ) 


At the moment, therefore, relations between the United States and China are relatively smooth. China is now a member of the WTO, which has stimulated enormous interest in our business community in trade and investment opportunities in China. Moreover, China's economy continues to be one of the fastest growing economies in the world. Nevertheless, while there are myriad reasons why we should use this opportunity to try to stabilize our relationship with China, there are lurking problems in the U.S.-China relationship (hat we would be foolish to ignore. First, Americans have widely divergent views of China. It was no accident that during the 2000 presidential campaign advisors to Governor Bush talked about China as a strategic competitor. Even now it is easy to find articles and speakers explaining why a stronger China is going to be more threatening to the United States. On the other hand, one can also find people who think that China has been moving in the right direction over the last twenty years. As some of the contributors to this volume argue in preceding chapters, China today is a more open country, and power is more institutionalized. Additionally, as Minxin Pei discussed, Chinese students are flooding our country. China today has officials at al I levels of government who have been educated in American universities. None of this existed twenty years ago. Not surprisingly, many people see this as a positive evolution. However, if one looks at the way China is sometimes discussed by U.S. government officials, it is often not clear which China it is that they are talking about: the China that has abandoned the rigid ideology of the past, that sees its interests as closely linked to the industrialized countries of the West, and that is successfully implementing market-based economic development; or the China that is growing stronger and potentially more threatening, and that is preparing for military conflict with the United States. The second problem is the challenge posed to America by the modernization of China's military. And finally, there is the very troublesome issue of Taiwan, which is getting worse, not better. It is a problem that, if mishandled, poses a genuine risk of military conflict between the United States and China. Such a conflict would have an enormous impact not only on both countries, but on the world as a whole. In the pages that follow, I will consider each of these issues and hopefully shed some light on the situation as I see it. 



**And, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">naval nationalism gives China the means to go to war</span></span>**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ross, 9 </span></span>
(Robert S, Professor of Political Science at Boston College, Associate of the John King Fairbank Center for East Asian Research at Harvard University, “China’s Naval Nationalism,” International Security, Vol 34, Number 2, Fall 09, Project Muse, NJ)

Despite post–Cold War development of high-technology weaponry, geography remains a potent force in great power politics. This is especially the case for water, in that advanced technologies have not made maritime capabilities obsolete for military power projection across the oceans.[[#f24-text]]<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.binghamton.edu/journals/international_security/v034/34.2.ross.html#f24|24]]</span> For the United States, a power-projection navy fleet has been an essential element of its post–Cold [End Page 54] War great power role in distant theaters. Both the U.S. victory over Iraq in 1991 and the rapid destruction of the Iraqi government in 2003 depended in part on U.S. carrier-deployed aircraft. The U.S. air war against Afghanistan’s Taliban government in 2001 also depended on carrier-based capabilities. / For China, despite the revolution in military affairs, its land-based capabilities are insufficient to enable it to project power in even the relatively near waters of maritime East Asia. Meanwhile, the United States is using the same maritime capabilities to dominate East Asia’s sea-lanes and to preserve the regional security order that it has used to wage war in Iraq. Neither submarines nor a surface fleet without on-location air defense can enable China to challenge U.S. dominance of regional sea-lanes and the security of its regional strategic partners, including Japan, Singapore, and other countries in maritime Southeast Asia. Chinese ability to secure access to overseas resources and to challenge U.S. regional alliances and strategic presence will thus require naval power-projection capabilities similar to the capabilities the United States has deployed to project power in its wars in the post–Cold War era. 


**And, it gives them the motive to go to war**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kaplan, 10 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The Geog­ra­phy of Chi­nese Power,” Foreign Affairs, NJ) </span>


There is, however, a contradiction at the heart of China's efforts to project power at sea in the Asian Mediterranean and beyond. On the one hand, China seems intent on denying U.S. vessels easy access to its coastal seas. On the other, it is still incapable of protecting its lines of communication at sea, which would make any attack on a U.S. warship futile, since the U.S. Navy could simply cut off Chinese energy supplies by interdicting Chinese ships in the Pacific and Indian oceans. Why even bother trying to deny access if you never intend to enforce it? According to the defense consultant Jacqueline Newmyer, Beijing aims to create "a disposition of power so favorable" that "it will not actually have to use force to secure its interests." Showcasing new weapons systems, building port facilities and listening posts in the Pacific and Indian oceans, giving military aid to littoral states located between Chinese territory and the Indian Ocean -- none of these moves is secret; all are deliberate displays of power. Rather than fight the United States outright, the Chinese seek to influence U.S. behavior precisely so as to avoid a confrontation. / Nonetheless, there seems to be a hard edge to some of China's naval activities. China is constructing a major naval base on the southern tip of Hainan Island, smack in the heart of the South China Sea, with underground facilities that could accommodate up to 20 nuclear and diesel-electric submarines. This is an exercise of Monroe Doctrine- style sovereignty over nearby international waters. China may have no intention of going to war with the United States today or in the future, but motives can change. It is better to track capabilities instead.


**And, multiple incidents at sea put us as the brink of miscalc**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Gertz, 9 </span></span>
(Bill, Defense and national security reporter for The Washington Times, wrote a bunch of books about IR, “Blair: China Gets ‘More Aggressive’ Against U.S. Ships,” Washington Times, http://www.studentnewsdaily.com/daily-news-article/blair-china-gets-more-aggressive-against-us-ships/, NJ) 

Director of National Intelligence Dennis C. Blair told a Senate hearing Tuesday that China's military is increasing harassment of Navy survey ships, activities viewed by U.S. intelligence as the most aggressive since 2001, when a Chinese jet flew into a U.S. EP-3 surveillance plane and set off an international crisis. Mr. Blair, a former four-star commander of U.S. forces in the Pacific, said a naval standoff Monday near Hainan Island is a troubling sign that China has adopted a more aggressive military posture toward U.S. Navy surveillance ships and is the latest in a series of incidents in international waters. "In the past several years, they have become more aggressive in asserting claims for the [200-mile Economic Exclusion Zone], which are excessive under almost any international code," Mr. Blair told the Senate Armed Services Committee. "And this latest incident with fishing vessels and a PLA [Chinese People's Liberation Army] navy vessel involved is the most serious that we've seen since 2001, the EP-3 incident," he said during a hearing on global threats. A group of Chinese vessels followed and harassed the survey ship USNS Impeccable in the South China Sea on Monday, the Pentagon said. U.S. diplomatic protests were delivered to the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing and to the Chinese Embassy in Washington. Monday's encounter was not an isolated incident. On March 4, a Chinese patrol boat shined a high-powered spotlight onto the USNS Victorious, which was sailing in international waters in the Yellow Sea, about 125 miles from China's coast, the Pentagon said. Chinese navy maritime aircraft flew over the ship 12 times on March 5. Also on March 5, a Chinese warship sailed within 100 yards of the Impeccable after the aircraft buzzed the ship. On March 7, a Chinese ship warned the Impeccable in a radio communication that its operations were illegal and that it must leave the area or "suffer the consequences," a defense official said. Pentagon Press Secretary Geoff Morrell said defense officials on Monday asked Chinese Embassy officials for an explanation of provocative statements that appeared in the Communist Party newspaper from Inner Mongolia on Feb. 19 that stated, "If an American spy ship enters China's sea area again, China will sink it." "We had not observed such statements prior to this article," he told The Washington Times. "The Chinese Embassy was unfamiliar with the article. We are awaiting their formal response." Mr. Morrell said U.S. Navy survey operations near China are "lawful military operations under international law." The incident near Hainan Island is expected to be discussed Wednesday when Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton meets with Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi at the State Department, a department spokesman said. The oceanographic ship was 70 miles south of Hainan Island, carrying out routine ocean survey operations in international waters, when the Chinese ship and other government vessels approached it, Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said. Mr. Whitman said two of the Chinese vessels sailed within 50 feet of the Impeccable. Crew members aboard the Chinese ships dropped pieces of wood into the water in front of the Impeccable, and two ships moved directly in front of the survey ship, forcing it to stop. Chinese Embassy spokesman Wang Baodong said his nation has addressed the Pentagon claims. In Beijing, the Foreign Ministry rejected the Pentagon protests and said the survey ship "broke international and Chinese laws in the South China Sea without China's permission." The ships included a Chinese intelligence collection ship, a Bureau of Maritime Fisheries patrol vessel, a State Oceanographic Administration patrol vessel and two small Chinese-flagged trawlers. U.S. survey ships conduct underwater monitoring and are viewed by the Chinese as military intelligence-gathering vessels. The Pentagon has tried for more than a decade to negotiate a maritime agreement with China to prevent such incidents at sea. China's military has rejected such an accord. Foreign Ministry spokesman Ma Zhaoxu said, "The U.S. claims are gravely in contravention of the facts and confuse black and white, and they are totally unacceptable to China." "We demand that the United States put an immediate stop to related activities and take effective measures to prevent similar acts from happening," Mr. Ma told reporters. The spokesman did not provide details of what happened or explain how the U.S. ship violated laws. "We expect Chinese ships to act responsibly and refrain from provocative activities that could lead to miscalculation or a collision at sea, endangering vessels and the lives of U.S. and Chinese mariners," a Pentagon official said.


**And, miscalc raises the risk of conflict**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kaplan, 10 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The Geog­ra­phy of Chi­nese Power,” Foreign Affairs, NJ) </span>

This is why U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's rejection of balance-of-power politics as a relic of the past is either disingenuous or misguided. There is an arms race going on in Asia, and the United States will have to face this reality when it substantially reduces its forces in Afghanistan and Iraq. Although no Asian state has any incentive to go to war, the risk of miscalculations about the balance of power will increase with time and with the buildup of air and naval forces in the region (if only by China and India). Tensions on land may reinforce tensions at sea: the power vacuums that China is now filling will in due course bring it into uneasy contact with, at a minimum, India and Russia. Once-empty spaces are becoming crowded with people, roads, pipelines, ships--and missiles. The Yale political scientist Paul Bracken warned in 1999 that Asia was becoming a closed geography and faced a crisis of "room." That process has only continued since.


**And, that conflict necessarily goes nuclear**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Jones, 8 </span></span>
(Rodney, President of Policy Architects International, “Nuclear Stability and Escalation Control in South Asia: Structural Factors,” Stimson, http://www.stimson.org/southasia/pdf/ESCCONTROLCHAPTER2.pdf, NJ)


The all-out conventional war scenario better highlights the structural factors of nuclear instability, but they do not recede to insignificance at lower levels of conflict and would be easily animated by escalation from lower to higher levels of conventional conflict -- even if decision-makers believe they are not trespassing on the opponent’s presumed nuclear deterrent-activating “red lines.” But examining the lesser scenarios, especially those of pre-meditated “limited war” is also important not only because of the general escalatory potentials, but also because military planners who believe it necessary to attempt to deter the other side’s freedom to initiate “limited war” with impunity are virtually bound to consider the acquisition and deployment of tactical nuclear weapons, among other options, to the existing arsenals.8


**And, that means extinction**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Straits Times, 2k </span></span>
(6-25-2000, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan,” p L/N, NJ)


Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and near and -horror of horrors -raise the possibility of a nuclear war. Beijing has already told the US and Japan privately that it considers any country providing bases and logistics support to any US forces attacking China as belligerent parties open to its retaliation. In the region, this means South Korea, Japan, the Philippines and, to a lesser extent, Singapore. If China were to retaliate, east Asia will be set on fire. And the conflagration may not end there as opportunistic powers elsewhere may try to overturn the existing world order. With the US distracted, Russia may seek to redefine Europe's political landscape. The balance of power in the Middle East may be similarly upset by the likes of Iraq. In south Asia, hostilities between India and Pakistan, each armed with its own nuclear arsenal, could enter a new and dangerous phase. Will a full-scale Sino-US war lead to a nuclear war? According to General Matthew Ridgeway, commander of the US Eighth Army which fought against the Chinese in the Korean War, the US had at the time thought of using nuclear weapons against China to save the US from military defeat. In his book The Korean War, a personal account of the military and political aspects of the conflict and its implications on future US foreign policy, Gen Ridgeway said that US was confronted with two choices in Korea -truce or a broadened war, which could have led to the use of nuclear weapons. If the US had to resort to nuclear weaponry to defeat China long before the latter acquired a similar capability, there is little hope of winning a war against China 50 years later, short of using nuclear weapons. The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American cities. Beijing also seems prepared to go for the nuclear option. A Chinese military officer disclosed recently that Beijing was considering a review of its "non first use" principle regarding nuclear weapons. Major-General Pan Zhangqiang, president of the military-funded Institute for Strategic Studies, told a gathering at the Woodrow Wilson International Centre for Scholars in Washington that although the government still abided by that principle, there were strong pressures from the military to drop it. He said military leaders considered the use of nuclear weapons mandatory if the country risked dismemberment as a result of foreign intervention. Gen Ridgeway said [if] that should that come to pass, we would see the destruction of civilisation. There would be no victors in such a war. While the prospect of a nuclear Armaggedon over Taiwan might seem inconceivable, it cannot be ruled out entirely, for China puts sovereignty above everything else. 

**And, containment strategies only __ensure__ conflict**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barron, 2 </span></span>
(Michael J, Legislative Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, “China's Strategic Modernization: The Russian Connection,” US Army War College, http://www.carlisle.army.mil/USAWC/Parameters/Articles/01winter/barron.htm, NJ)

Today China is, with the help of Russian arms and technology, increasing its military power in the Pacific. China is increasing its political and economic power as well, and this has led and will continue to lead to conflicts of interest with other powers in the region, especially the United States and Japan. This path poses special dangers for American security, but it also provides rich opportunities. A US policy of strengthened engagement is needed to help manage the US-China relationship so that it does not lead to military conflict, but instead serves to strengthen the present stability in the Asia-Pacific region. All nations of the Asia-Pacific region would like to see China play a positive and constructive role there. / As China rises from the introverted crouch of the Maoist period and becomes more powerful, it is defining a wider role and a new identity for itself in international security. China's emergence is the most portentous geostrategic development in America's westward vista, as important as, to the east, Russia's search for a post-Cold War security concept. / The United States cannot steer China's course, but, as with Russia, it can exercise an influence. China's strategic thinkers themselves rate the actions of the United States as the most important factor they need to take into account, for better or worse, as they chart their country's future. / Americans, for their part, view China's growing power warily. Comfort can no longer be taken, as it was during the Cold War, from the fact that China's power was an offset to Soviet military power. Now China must be assessed on its own terms. Some Americans have already concluded that China is destined for competition and conflict with the United States. But such a conclusion rashly prejudges the outcome of a process that is only beginning. Fatalism would likely prove a self-fulfilling prophecy. If China is treated like an adversary, it will surely become one. / The United States has, to this point, wisely chosen to reject a policy of fatalism, as well as its accompanying prescription, a strategy of containment that would seek systematically to limit China's power and role. Instead, US policy has recognized the malleability of China's future course and the potential for America to influence it through engagement. For now, the weight of American political opinion appears to support that policy of engagement.

**This makes all global conflicts more likely**

Henry C K <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Liu</span>**</span>, 8-20-200<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">5</span>**</span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">chair of a New York-based private investment group</span></span>, “Trade wars can lead to shooting wars,” Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/global_economy/GH20Dj01.html


A China forced defensively by hostile US policy into isolationism, a recurring tendency throughout its long history, ironically would lead to regional decline and instability that would quickly turn global in this interconnected world. The decline of China that began in early 19th century was traceable in part to Chinese self-imposed isolationism, in contrast to Japan's forced opening to the then more technologically advanced West that led to the Meiji Reformation. The modern history of China might have been totally different if isolationism had not prevailed in Chinese politics in the early 1800s, and modernization had been allowed to proceed with needed stimulation from mutually beneficial contacts with the West before Western imperialism had a chance to take shape. / An internationally engaged China will be a positive force for world peace and prosperity. As the enormous China market becomes reality from rising income, it will impact traditional international economic relations to restructure residual prejudicial racial enmity and Cold War geopolitical alliances and give rise to a new mode of world order free of residual racial phobia and obsolete ideological conflicts. / US hostility and preemptive strategy toward a peacefully rising China may be forced to fall back on ineffective US unilateralism, devoid of willing partners even from among its residual Cold War allies. Trade protectionism will lead to isolationism, a movement with a significant past in US history. Yet as a superpower, the US cannot isolate itself from the rest of the world without severe penalties. Or to put it another way, the cost of US isolationism is the forfeiture of its superpower status. / Kissinger observed correctly in the Washington Post article that "in a US confrontation with China, the vast majority of nations will seek to avoid choosing sides". Already, normally dependable US allies such as the United Kingdom, the EU (particularly France and Germany), Japan, Australia and even Israel are experiencing rising conflicts with US policy on China. These nations are beginning to see US demands for unquestioning support of its hostile policy on China as not being congruent with their separate national interests. / Everywhere else in the world, from Asia to Latin America, from the Middle East to Africa, sympathy for China's effort to regain its natural prominence in the world and positive response to its effective development strategy are mounting while appreciation for unilateral US security and economic policies is falling. While the US is still a juggernaut in its coercive ability to commandeer much of the world's wealth, its ability to produce wealth appears to have declined. It is becoming increasingly obvious to some in Washington that a military option is the answer to arresting US economic decline that threatens the country's superpower status.


**And, containment forces other countries into tough diplomatic positions**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Shambaugh, 10 </span></span>
(David, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">September 2010</span></span>, professor at George Washington University and a non-resident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, former Fulbright senior research scholar at the Institute of World Economics and Politics, a part of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, “A New China Requires a New US Strategy,” Current History Vol 109 Iss 728, p. 222) 

For most Asian governments, the US effort effectively to encircle China with a ring of security relationships creates uncase and places these governments in a difficult position vis-a vis Beijing. While they do not wish the United States to withdraw from the region, neither are they comfortable with Washington's strategic posture against China. And China itself is clearly uncomfortable with it, pointing out that it is inconsistent with America's professed desire to build a global partnership. When combined with continuing US arms sales to Taiwan and assertive intelligence surveillance off China's coast, Beijing understandably sees hostile intent from Washington in general and the US military in particular.

===Advantage 2 is Regional Alliances=== 

**Reducing presence allows for regional alliances with China involved**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kaplan, 10 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The Geog­ra­phy of Chi­nese Power,” Foreign Affairs, NJ) </span>


A Greater China may be emerging politically, economically, or militarily in Central Asia, on the Indian Ocean, in Southeast Asia, and in the western Pacific. But just beyond this new realm will be a stream of U.S. warships, many perhaps headquartered in Oceania and partnering with naval forces from India, Japan, and other democracies. And in time, as China's confidence grows, its blue-water force could develop a less territorial approach and itself be drawn into a large regional naval alliance. / In the meantime, it is worth noting that, as the political scientist Robert Ross pointed out in 1999, in military terms, the relationship between the United States and China will be more stable than was the one between the United States and the Soviet Union. This is because of the particular geography of East Asia. During the Cold War, U.S. maritime power alone was insufficient to contain the Soviet Union; a significant land force in Europe was also required. But no such land force will ever be required around the edge of Eurasia, because even as the United States' land presence around the borders of a Greater China diminishes, the U.S. Navy will continue to be stronger than the Chinese navy. / Still, the very fact of China's rising economic and military power will exacerbate U.S.-Chinese tensions in the years ahead. To paraphrase Mearsheimer, the United States, the hegemon of the Western Hemisphere, will try to prevent China from becoming the hegemon of much of the Eastern Hemisphere. This could be the signal drama of the age.


**These alliances are effective**

Doug <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bandow</span>**</span>, Spring/Summer 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>**</span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, frmr Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan</span></span>, “Promoting Long-Term Economic Growth: America and East Asia Working Together” International journal of Korean Studies, http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/doug-bandow-ijks-xiv.pdf


The best means of obtaining this prosperity lies in maintaining an open trading system, encouraging bilateral investment flows, and working together to resolve economic disputes, whether over currency valuations or regulatory standards. Tough economic times may tempt national leaders to turn economics into political battlefields. However, history suggests that all countries lose when they sacrifice economic ties in an attempt to win short-term financial advantage. Indeed, a policy of isolation helped turn the once great Chinese Empire which dominated Asia into a geopolitical weakling, one vulnerable to Western imperialism. Unfortunately, Washington seems to be following in Imperial China’s path with the refusal of Congress to approve the U.S.-South Korea free trade agreement and the unwillingness or inability of President Barack Obama to make the case necessary to win congressional backing. / But Asia’s future depends on more than economics. Equally important is the preservation of peace through creation of stronger political and security arrangements in the region. Peace is necessary for Asia’s economic miracle to continue: the Korean, Japanese, Chinese, and other peoples have direct experience with how violence, both internal and external, can inhibit national development. Thankfully, Asia’s conflicts since World War II have been limited. In the aftermath of World War II the U.S. sought to promote stability through a series of essentially unilateral alliances with Australia, Japan, New Zealand, the Philippines, South Korea, and Taiwan (though nominally bilateral or multilateral, the defense guarantee ran only one way, from Washington). Whatever the merits of this system at the time, it is now obsolescent. / First, the geopolitical context has changed with the disappearance of the Cold War which led to hostility and conflict among the region’s most important powers. Second, countries which were weak and poor after being ravaged by years of war now are strong, prosperous, and confident. The basis of security and stability should shift from unilateral military alliances to multilateral cooperative relationships. Although policy disagreements and vigorous competition among the United States, China, Japan, ROK, and other states are inevitable, these countries have a powerful incentive to resolve their differences amicably while limiting military competition and pressure for an arms race. / Getting both economic and security policies right is important, not just for Asia but for the rest of the world. The dynamic core of world economic affairs long has been shifting to the Asia-Pacific. Japan remains an economic power even while stuck in the doldrums. South Korea continues to grow after recovering from the Asian financial crisis. Even more significant is China’s growing economic role. Beijing’s relative immunity from the worst of last year’s financial crisis merely reinforces Asia’s economic importance. / The region’s economic transformation has most obviously benefited people throughout Asia. As growth continues, those elsewhere around the world also will benefit greatly. Despite today’s short-term economic difficulties, the future appears to be bright, if we do not repeat the mistakes of the past. / The 21st Century may prove to be the Asian Century. But that is likely only if the 21st Century in Asia also proves to be a time of peace, liberty, prosperity, and stability. Tensions in the region have dropped dramatically with the end of the Cold War, along with increased international understanding and economic interdependence. All of these trends are embodied in Asia’s growing role as part of the international community. Still, neither peace nor prosperity can be taken for granted. Cooperation and goodwill will be necessary throughout Asia and across the Pacific. We all are benefiting from today’s environment of peace and prosperity. We all must work together to preserve it.


====**Subpoint A is China**==== 
**<span class="Cite">These alliances are uniquely key to prevent and check Chinese naval nationalism and Cyber warfare </span>**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bandow, 9 </span></span>
(Doug, Robert A. Taft Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance, former special assistant to President Reagan, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, “First Among Equals,” The National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/article/first-among-equals-2968, NJ)


That doesn't mean the United States will be threatened. Other countries won't be able to defeat America or force it to terms. But the outcomes of ever more international controversies will become less certain. Other governments will be more willing in more instances to say no to Washington. Especially China. / Much will change in the coming years, but as the JOE 2008 observes, / The Sino-American relationship represents one of the great strategic question marks of the next twenty-five years. Regardless of the outcome-cooperative or coercive, or both-China will become increasingly important in the considerations and strategic perceptions of joint force commanders. / What kind of a power is Beijing likely to become? Chinese policymakers emphasize that they plan a "peaceful rise," but their ambitions loom large. Argues JOE 2008, while the People's Republic of China doesn't "emphasize the future strictly in military terms," the Chinese do calculate "that eventually their growing strength will allow them to dominate Asia and the Western Pacific." More ominously, argues the Joint Forces Command, "The Chinese are working hard to ensure that if there is a military confrontation with the United States sometime in the future, they will be ready." / Yet this assessment is far less threatening than it sounds. The PRC is not capable (nor close to being capable) of threatening vital U.S. interests-conquering American territory, threatening our liberties and constitutional system, cutting off U.S. trade with the rest of the world, dominating Eurasia and turning that rich resource base against America. After all, the United States has the world's most sophisticated and powerful nuclear arsenal; China's intercontinental delivery capabilities are quite limited. America has eleven carrier groups while Beijing has none. Washington is allied with most every other industrialized state and a gaggle of the PRC's neighbors. China is surrounded by nations with which it has been at war in recent decades: Russia, Japan, South Korea, Vietnam and India. / Indeed, today Beijing must concentrate on defending itself. In pointing to the PRC's investment in submarines, the JOE 2008 acknowledges: "The emphasis on nuclear submarines and an increasingly global Navy in particular, underlines worries that the U.S. Navy possesses the ability to shut down China's energy imports of oil-80% of which go through the straits of Malacca." The Chinese government is focused on preventing American intervention against it in its own neighborhood, not on contesting U.S. dominance elsewhere in the world, let alone in North America. / Washington almost certainly will be unable to thwart Beijing, at least at acceptable cost. China needs spend only a fraction of America's military outlays to develop a deterrent capability-nuclear sufficiency to forestall nuclear coercion, submarine and missile forces to sink U.S. carriers, and anti-satellite and cyber-warfare weapons to blind and disrupt American forces. Washington could ill afford to intervene in East Asia against the PRC so equipped. / Such a military is well within China's reach. Notes JOE 2008: "by conservative calculations it is easily possible that by the 2030s China could modernize its military to reach a level of approximately one quarter of current U.S. capabilities without any significant impact on its economy." Thus, absent the unlikely economic and social collapse of China, in not too many years Beijing will able to enforce its "no" to America. / Washington must reconsider its response. U.S. taxpayers already spend as much as everyone else on earth on the military. It's a needless burden, since promiscuous intervention overseas does not make Americans safer. To maintain today's overwhelming edge over progressively more powerful militaries in China, Russia, India and other states would require disproportionately larger military outlays in the United States. It's a game Washington cannot win. / A better alternative would be to more carefully delineate vital interests, while treating lesser issues as matters for diplomacy rather than military action. Equally important, the American government should inform its allies that their security is in the first instance their responsibility. Washington should act as an offshore balancer to prevent domination of Eurasia by a hostile hegemon. But the United States should not attempt to coercively micro-manage regional relations. / Stepping back today would reduce pressure on Beijing to engage in a sustained arms buildup to limit U.S. intervention in the future. If the PRC nevertheless moved forward, its neighbors could take note and respond accordingly. Encouraging China to keep its rise peaceful is in everyone's interest.


**Cyber war causes accidental launch**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cimbala, 99 </span></span>
(Stephen, professor of political science at the Pennsylvania State University Delaware County Campus, Summer 1999, Armed Forces & Society: An Interdisciplinary Journal, NJ)


The nuclear shadow over the information age remains significant. The essence of information warfare is in subtlety and deception: the manipulation of uncertainty. The essence of nuclear deterrence lies in the credible and certain threat of retaliation backed by an information environment accepted and trusted by both sides in a partly competitive, partly conflictual relationship. Nuclear assets may themselves become the targets of cyberwarriors. Triumphalism about the RMA in high technology conventional weapons overlooks asymmetrical strategies that might appeal to U.S. opponents. Among these might be the reciprocal use of information warfare to deny U.S. access in time of need to a timely nuclear response or to a credible nuclear threat. But even more problematic is the potential collision course between intentional information warfare and unintended side effects when cyberwar is waged against a nuclear armed state, especially one with a non-Western culture. Neither the status of nuclear forces in the new world order, nor all of the military implications of the information revolution, are apparent now. There are reasons to suppose that the strategies and technologies of information warfare will develop along one track, whereas efforts to control nuclear weapons spread and to establish the safety and security of existing nuclear arsenals will involve a different community of specialists and attentive publics. Nevertheless, there are sufficient grounds to be concerned that a too successful menu of information strategies may contribute to a failure of nuclear deterrence in the form of accidental/inadvertent war or escalation. Unplanned interactions between infowarriors and deterrers could have unfortunate byproducts. 


**Global nuclear war**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Forrow, 98 </span></span>
(Lachlan Forrow, M.D. et al, 4-30-1998, “Accidental Nuclear War — A Post–Cold War Assessment,” New England Journal of Medicine, http://content.nejm.org/cgi/content/full/338/18/1326-a)

Even though both countries declared in 1994 that they would not aim strategic missiles at each other, not even one second has been added to the time required to launch a nuclear attack: providing actual targeting (or retargeting) instructions is simply a component of normal launch procedures.12,13,14 The default targets of U.S. land-based missiles are now the oceans, but Russian missiles launched without specific targeting commands automatically revert to previously programmed military targets.13 / There have been numerous "broken arrows" (major nuclear-weapons accidents) in the past, including at least five instances of U.S. missiles that are capable of carrying nuclear devices flying over or crashing in or near the territories of other nations.15,16 From 1975 to 1990, 66,000 military personnel involved in the operational aspects of U.S. nuclear forces were removed from their positions. Of these 66,000, 41 percent were removed because of alcohol or other drug abuse and 20 percent because of psychiatric problems.17,18 General George Lee Butler, who as commander of the U.S. Strategic Command from 1991 to 1994 was responsible for all U.S. strategic nuclear forces, recently reported that he had "investigated a dismaying array of accidents and incidents involving strategic weapons and forces."19 / Any nuclear arsenal is susceptible to accidental, inadvertent, or unauthorized use.20,21 This is true both in countries declared to possess nuclear weapons (the United States, Russia, France, the United Kingdom, and China) and in other countries widely believed to possess nuclear weapons (Israel, India, and Pakistan). The combination of the massive size of the Russian nuclear arsenal (almost 6000 strategic warheads) and growing problems in Russian control systems makes Russia the focus of greatest current concern. / Since the end of the Cold War, Russia's nuclear command system has steadily deteriorated. Aging nuclear communications and computer networks are malfunctioning more frequently, and deficient early-warning satellites and ground radar are more prone to reporting false alarms.10,22,23,24 The saga of the Mir space station bears witness to the problems of aging Russian technical systems. In addition, budget cuts have reduced the training of nuclear commanders and thus their proficiency in operating nuclear weapons safely. Elite nuclear units suffer pay arrears and housing and food shortages, which contribute to low morale and disaffection. New offices have recently been established at Strategic Rocket Forces bases to address the problem of suicide25 (and unpublished data). / Safeguards against a nuclear attack will be further degraded if the Russian government implements its current plan to distribute both the unlock codes and conditional launch authority down the chain of command. Indeed, a recent report by the Central Intelligence Agency, which was leaked to the press, warned that some Russian submarine crews may already be capable of authorizing a launch.26 As then Russian Defense Minister Igor Rodionov warned last year, "No one today can guarantee the reliability of our control systems. . . . Russia might soon reach the threshold beyond which its rockets and nuclear systems cannot be controlled."24 / A particular danger stems from the reliance by both Russia and the United States on the strategy of "launch on warning" — the launching of strategic missiles after a missile attack by the enemy has been detected but before the missiles actually arrive. Each country's procedures allow a total response time of only 15 minutes: a few minutes for detecting an enemy attack, another several minutes for top-level decision making, and a couple of minutes to disseminate the authorization to launch a response.27,28 / Possible scenarios of an accidental or otherwise unauthorized nuclear attack range from the launch of a single missile due to a technical malfunction to the launch of a massive salvo due to a false warning. A strictly mechanical or electrical event as the cause of an accidental launch, such as a stray spark during missile maintenance, ranks low on the scale of plausibility.29 Analysts also worry about whether computer defects in the year 2000 may compromise the control of strategic missiles in Russia, but the extent of this danger is not known. Several authorities consider a launch based on a false warning to be the most plausible scenario of an accidental attack.20,29 This danger is not merely theoretical. Serious false alarms occurred in the U.S. system in 1979 and 1980, when human error and computer-chip failures resulted in indications of a massive Soviet missile strike.10,30 On January 25, 1995, a warning related to a U.S. scientific rocket launched from Norway led to the activation, for the first time in the nuclear era, of the "nuclear suitcases" carried by the top Russian leaders and initiated an emergency nuclear-decision-making conference involving the leaders and their top nuclear advisors. It took about eight minutes to conclude that the launch was not part of a surprise nuclear strike by Western submarines — less than four minutes before the deadline for ordering a nuclear response under standard Russian launch-on-warning protocols.10,24,27 A missile launch activated by false warning is thus possible in both U.S. and Russian arsenals. For the reasons noted above, an accidental Russian launch is currently considered the greater risk. Several specific scenarios have been considered by the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization of the Department of Defense.31 We have chosen to analyze a scenario that falls in the middle range of the danger posed by an accidental attack: the launch against the United States of the weapons on board a single Russian Delta-IV ballistic-missile submarine, for two reasons. First, the safeguards against the unauthorized launch of Russian submarine-based missiles are weaker than those against either silo-based or mobile land-based rockets, because the Russian general staff cannot continuously monitor the status of the crew and missiles or use electronic links to override unauthorized launches by the crews. Second, the Delta-IV is and will remain the mainstay of the Russian strategic submarine fleet.27,32,33 / Delta-IV submarines carry 16 missiles. Each missile is armed with four 100-kt warheads and has a range of 8300 km, which is sufficient to reach almost any part of the continental United States from typical launch stations in the Barents Sea.34,35 These missiles are believed to be aimed at "soft" targets, usually in or near American cities, whereas the more accurate silo-based missiles would attack U.S. military installations.36 Although a number of targeting strategies are possible for any particular Delta-IV, it is plausible that two of its missiles are assigned to attack war-supporting targets in each of eight U.S. urban areas. If 4 of the 16 missiles failed to reach their destinations because of malfunctions before or after the launch, then 12 missiles carrying a total of 48 warheads would reach their targets. / Potential Consequences of a Nuclear Accident / We assume that eight U.S. urban areas are hit: four with four warheads and four with eight warheads. We also assume that the targets have been selected according to standard military priorities: industrial, financial, and transportation sites and other components of the infrastructure that are essential for supporting or recovering from war. Since low-altitude bursts are required to ensure the destruction of structures such as docks, concrete runways, steel-reinforced buildings, and underground facilities, most if not all detonations will cause substantial early fallout. / Physical Effects / Under our model, the numbers of immediate deaths are determined primarily by the area of the "superfires" that would result from a thermonuclear explosion over a city. Fires would ignite across the exposed area to roughly 10 or more calories of radiant heat per square centimeter, coalescing into a giant firestorm with hurricane-force winds and average air temperatures above the boiling point of water. Within this area, the combined effects of superheated wind, toxic smoke, and combustion gases would result in a death rate approaching 100 percent.37 / For each 100-kt warhead, the radius of the circle of nearly 100 percent short-term lethality would be 4.3 km (2.7 miles), the range within which 10 cal per square centimeter is delivered to the earth's surface from the hot fireball under weather conditions in which the visibility is 8 km (5 miles), which is low for almost all weather conditions. We used Census CD to calculate the residential population within these areas according to 1990 U.S. Census data, adjusting for areas where circles from different warheads overlapped.38 In many urban areas, the daytime population, and therefore the casualties, would be much higher. / Fallout / The cloud of radioactive dust produced by low-altitude bursts would be deposited as fallout downwind of the target area. The exact areas of fallout would not be predictable, because they would depend on wind direction and speed, but there would be large zones of potentially lethal radiation exposure. With average wind speeds of 24 to 48 km per hour (15 to 30 miles per hour), a 100-kt low-altitude detonation would result in a radiation zone 30 to 60 km (20 to 40 miles) long and 3 to 5 km (2 to 3 miles) wide in which exposed and unprotected persons would receive a lethal total dose of 600 rad within six hours.39 With radioactive contamination of food and water supplies, the breakdown of refrigeration and sanitation systems, radiation-induced immune suppression, and crowding in relief facilities, epidemics of infectious diseases would be likely.40 / Deaths / Table 1 shows the estimates of early deaths for each cluster of targets in or near the eight major urban areas, with a total of 6,838,000 initial deaths. Given the many indeterminate variables (e.g., the altitude of each warhead's detonation, the direction of the wind, the population density in the fallout zone, the effectiveness of evacuation procedures, and the availability of shelter and relief supplies), a reliable estimate of the total number of subsequent deaths from fallout and other sequelae of the attack is not possible. With 48 explosions probably resulting in thousands of square miles of lethal fallout around urban areas where there are thousands of persons per square mile, it is plausible that these secondary deaths would outnumber the immediate deaths caused by the firestorms. / Medical Care in the Aftermath / Earlier assessments have documented in detail the problems of caring for the injured survivors of a nuclear attack: the need for care would completely overwhelm the available health care resources.1,2,3,4,5,41 Most of the major medical centers in each urban area lie within the zone of total destruction. The number of patients with severe burns and other critical injuries would far exceed the available resources of all critical care facilities nationwide, including the country's 1708 beds in burn-care units (most of which are already occupied).42 The danger of intense radiation exposure would make it very difficult for emergency personnel even to enter the affected areas. The nearly complete destruction of local and regional transportation, communications, and energy networks would make it almost impossible to transport the severely injured to medical facilities outside the affected area. After the 1995 earthquake in Kobe, Japan, which resulted in a much lower number of casualties (6500 people died and 34,900 were injured) and which had few of the complicating factors that would accompany a nuclear attack, there were long delays before outside medical assistance arrived.43 / From Danger to Prevention / Public health professionals now recognize that many, if not most, injuries and deaths from violence and accidents result from a predictable series of events that are, at least in principle, preventable.44,45 The direct toll that would result from an accidental nuclear attack of the type described above would dwarf all prior accidents in history. Furthermore, such an attack, even if accidental, might prompt a retaliatory response resulting in an all-out nuclear exchange. The World Health Organization has estimated that this would result in billions of direct and indirect casualties worldwide.4


====**Subpoint B is Asian Security**==== 

**<span class="Cite">Alliances promote cooperation, solving conflict </span>**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Vogel, 10 </span></span>
<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">(Ezra, </span></span>Henry Ford II Emeritus Professor of Social Sciences at Harvard University, “Regionalism in Asia: Why we should stick with existing structures,” East Asia Forum, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2010/03/30/regionalism-in-asia-why-we-should-stick-with-existing-structures/, NJ) 


An important key to successful regional organisation is making good use of what some of the individual countries have to contribute. The strong points of some of the leading countries that can promote the region are thus detailed below. Japan has been the pioneer in bringing modernisation to Asia. Despite its relatively small size, Japan remains one of the three largest economies in the world, with one of the best-educated and healthiest populations. Its technology and quality of production set global standards, and its law-abiding citizenry facilitate one of the lowest crime rates in the world. As the only major country in the world that has chosen not to have nuclear weapons, Japan has the moral authority to take a leading position in the fight against nuclear proliferation. Finally, as the global leader in energy technology and environmental protection, it can make a major contribution in these areas. China, driven by explosive economic growth and a massive population, has begun to play a central role in energising the region’s economy. Its think tanks and universities have developed extraordinarily quickly, and China is now producing large numbers of young people with a deep understanding of major issues affecting the Asia-Pacific region. Whilst China was initially concerned about the speed of modernisation within Asia, it has come to realise the benefits inherent in regionalism, and has begun to take a role in strengthening regional and global organisations. As China’s economy has grown, its leaders have also turned their focus onto international efforts to solve environmental problems such as global warming. The United States remains the leader in higher education and research, and acts as a centre for educating talented people from around the globe. Additionally, international institutions sometimes lack the capacity to respond to urgent crises. In this context, the United States remains the country with the greatest capacity to resolve security and environmental emergencies. The United States recognises the importance of the Asia-Pacific and can be expected to take an active role in the region. The Southeast Asian countries that formed ASEAN have set the model for the ‘soft regionalism’ that is the glue binding together nations on both sides of the Pacific in a cooperative framework, most notably via APEC. It has unique convening power for bringing together the big powers of the region in a neutral setting. As the largest country in South-East Asia, Indonesia inevitably plays a central role in ASEAN. South Korea and Australia both also have unique contributions to make. South Korea, along with Singapore, is the most cosmopolitan country in East Asia, and continues to send many students to countries throughout the world. Australia has played a special role, not only as the region’s key supplier of many raw materials, but also as the one sizeable Caucasian country that is in effect in Asia. No country outside South Korea has trained a higher percentage of its population in Japanese language and culture. No country outside Indonesia has done more to study Indonesia. Accordingly, Australia continues to play a key role in maintaining security within the Asia-Pacific. The regional organisations in existence are already flexible enough to make good use of the capacities of the respective countries. But India and Russia should also be absorbed in these organisations. Together, these countries, through the regional associations, can address some of the critical issues facing the region. I will just briefly mention two of the most difficult of these issues that require our attention: historical disputes, and military balance of power issues. At the moment, issues as to Japanese interpretations of history are relatively submerged, as South Korea and China are making an effort to set aside this issue. This does not mean that the issue has been resolved. On the Japanese side, efforts must be made to engage in a thorough study of the tragedies caused by the occupation of Taiwan and Korea, and of the invasion of mainland China in World War II. Korea and China must also make an effort to communicate to their populations the fundamental changes that have occurred after World War II, as Japan has sought to maintain peace and avoid militarism. The security balance in Asia is the single biggest issue confronting regionalism in the Asia-Pacific. In the past several decades, stability in Asia has rested upon two pillars; the overwhelming military power of the United States and the cooperation of other countries, most prominently South Korea and Japan. Now, the Chinese military is growing in strength, and it is no secret that the US has an imbalanced budget that will constrain military expenses in decades ahead. If we are to maintain peace and stability in the Asia Pacific, we must have a solid understanding between the United States and China. It is in the interests of all countries in the region to deal with these issues, and regional organisations can make an important contribution.


**And, reduction is key to prevent these escalatory conflicts**

Doug <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bandow</span>**</span>, Spring/Summer 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>**</span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, frmr Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan</span></span>, “Promoting Long-Term Economic Growth: America and East Asia Working Together” International journal of Korean Studies, http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/doug-bandow-ijks-xiv.pdf


Economic cooperation has long been recognized as having beneficial political consequences. Commerce draws people together, substituting a real human partner with a name and face for an anonymous potential adversary. This process appears to have helped draw the people of China and Taiwan together, despite years of political contention. Economic ties have supplemented a military alliance between America and South Korea. In the case of the U.S. and China, many more people on both sides of the Pacific have a far better understanding of the other nation as a result of trade, investment, and other business dealings. / But prosperity also depends on the right political environment. For the last three decades all of the major powers in East Asia have been at peace. There have been tensions among them, to be sure. North Korea has been a particular problem. Nevertheless, the diminution of the threat of war has allowed countries throughout the Asia-Pacific to concentrate on economic development. To ensure that the region continues on its present course, China, other leading Asian nations, and the U.S. should resist the temptation to engage in an arms race, instead cooperating to create regional institutions likely to encourage both peace and stability. / Obviously, the outbreak of war between any of the major states in the region would disrupt commerce between them and would, depending on its nature, scope and severity, have destabilizing effects throughout the region. Preventing conflict thus is the first responsibility of nations seeking to ensure continued regional growth. / Also important is avoiding a sustained regional arms race. Military outlays always divert economic resources to unproductive ends and often increase political tensions. With the world’s number 1, 2, 3, and 5 military spenders (U.S., China, Russia, Japan) either part of Asia or involved in Asia, as well as other nations with substantial military outlays (ROK, India), there is potential for wasteful military outlays to stoke fears, promote miscalculation, and raise tensions. We all would be poorer as a result. / Although military spending per se does not create wars, it is more likely to spark instability where countries already share difficult histories and conflicting geopolitical interests. The perception of a regional “zero sum game” is enhanced by the survival of Cold War relationships even though the Cold War is long over. The U.S. has been particularly creative in developing new justifications for old alliances. / Many countries are affected, but the greatest potential for serious confrontation is between Washington and Beijing. Some American hawks now treat the PRC as the next security threat, warranting increased U.S. military outlays. In turn, Washington’s military activities and international intentions engender skepticism among many Chinese policymakers. Conflict between these two countries inevitably would draw in other East Asian states, starting with America’s closest allies, the ROK and Japan. / Other national pairings reflect varying degrees of hostility and fear. China and Japan, the two Koreas, North Korea and Japan are three of the more important. If Moscow continues to roughly assert itself, it might again enter more into the regional military equation. There are no reasons for any of these nations to come into conflict with any others, though the conduct of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea remains uniquely problematic. The fears sparked by the most recent sinking of the South Korean warship in the Yellow Sea in 2010, though apparently not caused by DPRK military action, well illustrates the problem. / All of these countries should consider the impact of their policy objectives, military outlays, and rhetorical outbursts on other interested nations. North Korea’s perpetual policy of brinkmanship is beyond the control of more responsible nations. However, Washington’s determination to maintain regional military dominance, Russia’s more belligerent outlook, and China’s sometimes harsh stance toward Taiwan also are among the factors affecting regional perceptions and responses. In particular, these three countries—superpowers former, current, and future—should emphasize defense transparency, military cooperation, and geopolitical moderation. / Especially important is integrating the PRC into security as well as economic arrangements. Doing so should not be viewed as concessions by Beijing, since the latter would benefit in a number of ways, including from the greater international trust that would result. Fruitful areas for future initiatives include humanitarian assistance, peace-keeping missions, search-and-rescue training, joint operations against pirates and smugglers, and military exercises. / There are practical reasons for such cooperation. Observes Jonathan Holslag of the Brussels Institute of Contemporary China Studies: “why should China not work with the United States? Both powers have many security interests in common. Maritime piracy is an obvious example. Collaboration on energy security can be explored as well, given shared concerns about violence in areas such as the Gulf of Guinea and eastern Africa. The United States should also seriously consider the added value of working with China in stabilizing Afghanistan/Pakistan.” Similar arguments apply to cooperation by both the U.S. and PRC with other Asian nations. / The ROK can play a particularly useful role, given its active military as well as economic role in the region. Seoul’s closer economic relationship with the PRC has reduced the possibility that the latter will support military adventurism by Pyongyang, despite the continuing bilateral alliance between the two traditional friends. South Korea should seek to establish ongoing military contacts and cooperation as well.


**And, those conflicts go nuclear**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Landay, 2k </span></span>
(Jonathon S, national security and intelligence correspondent, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, Knight Ridder)

Few if any experts think China and Taiwan, North Korea and South Korea, or India and Pakistan are spoiling to fight. But even a minor miscalculation by any of them could destabilize Asia, jolt the global economy and even start a nuclear war. India, Pakistan and China all have nuclear weapons, and North Korea may have a few, too. Asia lacks the kinds of organizations, negotiations and diplomatic relationships that helped keep an uneasy peace for five decades in Cold War Europe. "Nowhere else on Earth are the stakes as high and relationships so fragile," said Bates Gill, director of northeast Asian policy studies at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank. "We see the convergence of great power interest overlaid with lingering confrontations with no institutionalized security mechanism in place. There are elements for potential disaster."

===Solvency=== 

====**Plan: The Department of Defense should substantially reduce its naval presence in Japan.**==== 

**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">That solves naval nationalism</span>**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kaplan, 10 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Robert, national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security, “The Geog­ra­phy of Chi­nese Power,” Foreign Affairs, NJ) </span>


So can the United States work to preserve stability in Asia, protect its allies there, and limit the emergence of a Greater China while avoiding a conflict with Beijing? Offshore balancing may not be sufficient. As one former high-ranking Indian official told me early this year, major U.S. allies in Asia (such as India, Japan, Singapore, and South Korea) want the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Air Force to act in "concert" with their own forces -- so that the United States will be an integral part of Asia's landscape and seascape, not merely a force lurking over the distant horizon. There is a big difference between haggling with the United States over basing rights, as the Japanese have been doing recently, and wanting a wholesale withdrawal of U.S. forces. / One plan that has been mak­ing the rounds in the Pen­ta­gon argues that the United States could “counter Chi­nese strate­gic power … with­out direct mil­i­tary con­fronta­tion” with a U.S. fleet of just 250 ships (down from the 280 it has now) and a 15 per­cent cut in defense spend­ing. This plan, designed by the retired U.S. Marine colonel Pat Gar­rett, is sig­nif­i­cant because it intro­duces into the Eurasian equa­tion the strate­gic sig­nif­i­cance of Ocea­nia. Guam and the Car­o­line, Mar­shall, North­ern Mar­i­ana, and Solomon islands are all U.S. ter­ri­to­ries, com­mon­wealths with defense agree­ments with the United States, or inde­pen­dent states that would prob­a­bly be open to such agree­ments. Ocea­nia will grow in impor­tance because it is both rel­a­tively close to East Asia and out­side the zone in which China is eager to deny easy access to U.S. war­ships. Guam is only a four-hour flight from North Korea and a two-day sail from Tai­wan. It would be less provoca­tive for the United States to keep bases in Ocea­nia in the future than it has been for it to keep troops in Japan, South Korea, and the Philippines.


**And, that reduction strengthens our alliances in East Asia**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thon, 4 </span></span>
Scott R. <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Thon</span></span>, 5-3-200<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">4</span></span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Commander, Supply Corps, US Navy, “U.S. Military Overseas Presence in the Northeast Asia-Pacific Region,” US Army War College</span></span>, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA423938

These factors do not eliminate the need for forward deployed forces. However, they do challenge the current overseas force structure world wide, including the Northeast Asia-Pacific region. It is an opportunity for policymakers to re-examine the composition and location of forward deployed forces. The U.S. has options available today and in the future that can optimize our use of resources and achieve our national security objectives. The DOD must evaluate our force structure in the Northeast Asia-Pacific region in terms of possible reductions in personnel and infrastructure. The new force structure should reflect our capability to project power without the need for major installations. / Any evaluation must take into consideration the economic prosperity of these countries, as well as, the growing interdependence among them. Former Japanese prime minister Toshiki Kaifu, at the Northeast Asian Economic Forum, May 2002, expressed his view that, “Japan and other neighboring countries should not irresponsibly consider (China) as a threat. On the contrary, we should devote ourselves thoroughly to economic development, complement each other with the unique advantage of each side and achieve common prosperity.” 39 At the same conference, former Republic of Korea (ROK) prime minister Hong-Koo Lee said “economic and trade relations and scientific and cultural exchanges between the ROK and China have been expanding very rapidly since the two countries established diplomatic ties a decade ago. The two countries and Japan enjoy broad prospects for economic cooperation.”40 For example, in 2002, China surpassed the U.S. as South Korea’s largest export market.41 Regional stability and security goals are increasingly being aligned with the national interests through economic growth. As a result, a smaller U.S. military footprint would be acceptable to the peoples of the region and still achieve the U.S. interests of stability and security through regional cooperation. / It is important for America’s policy-makers to perform this evaluation now. Our Allies in the Asia-Pacific region might welcome a realignment or reduction of overseas basing in their countries. No country desires to have a foreign force occupying the territory of their country unless there is a perceived defensive advantage. The general populace often views U.S. military presence with disdain stemming from a variety of issues – crime, accidents, noise, and environmental damage. Returning installations and reassigning personnel would be favorably viewed by these countries. This could strengthen our long-term relationship and ensure future military cooperation. / Another advantage to conducting a re-evaluation now is to ensure required military capabilities are properly matched to our forward deployment strategy. If the Navy is to supplement sea basing strategy for overseas bases, then resources will need to be shifted to ensure proper funding for the development of ships and equipment. The Air Force “may place a greater premium on long-range operations that are well beyond normal flying radius. If so, the Air Force will need to buy or upgrade the necessary long-range combat aircraft, tankers, and other equipment.”42 The Army will need to ensure its rapid and mobile deployment of forces can be projected without the use of overseas intermediate staging areas. / The opportunity to remove forces from the Northeast Asia-Pacific region exists today. In Japan, for example, the primary operational forces have been the carrier battle group and amphibious readiness group. A conventional powered aircraft carrier has been the key ingredient in this operational force since 1973. However, USS KITTY HAWK (CV-62) is scheduled to be de-commissioned within the next 5 years. The only available replacement option is a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier which will face tremendous resistance from the Japanese people. In addition, it will require the Navy to invest in a nuclear-capable maintenance facility and related infrastructure in Yokosuka, Japan. The Navy could establish a homeport for a nuclear carrier in Guam or Hawaii without the political ramifications. In addition, the U.S. would be in a position to reduce personnel and close smaller facilities. The ESSEX ESG could be re-located in Yokosuka and the base expanded as a joint use facility with the Japanese Maritime Self Defense Force. / Diplomatic efforts should be pursued to establish territorial access rights to allow the U.S. to conduct mutually agreed upon operations. Such as agreements providing security assistance, humanitarian efforts, or combat support services. This type of relationship has already been successful in the Philippines. The visit of a U.S. Navy war ship to Vietnam in November 2003, has opened the door to the possibility of establishing access rights to support facilities within Vietnam. The advantage to establishing these type of relationships is the reduced commitment of overseas based forces and the associated cost. The risk will be the possibility that the host nation will deny access during a crisis. This risk can be minimized through efforts to develop multiple access agreements and to encourage mutual interests. / U.S. overseas presence will continue to be an important element of our National Security Strategy. The wholesale removal of our forces would be detrimental to achieving our goal of deterrence and maintaining a capability to quickly engage our adversaries. However, the U.S. needs to re-evaluate the core purpose of today’s overseas presence. Changes in technology and capabilities offer an opportunity to shift our strategy to be focused more on projecting stability rather than maintaining a massive presence. The time is right for this appraisal. It would enhance our goodwill with our Allies and ensure tough resourcing issues are properly addressed by Congress and the President.

**And, Alliances reduce coercion, providing stability**

Doug <span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bandow</span>**</span>, Spring/Summer 20<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">10</span>**</span>, <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute, frmr Special Assistant to President Ronald Reagan</span></span>, “Promoting Long-Term Economic Growth: America and East Asia Working Together” International journal of Korean Studies, http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/doug-bandow-ijks-xiv.pdf


Maintaining peaceful relations and moderating military build-ups will be easier if nations in the region as well as countries with which they are closely linked, such as the U.S., work together in strong institutions. Expanding its UN role has helped Japan move beyond its imperial past; the ROK has taken on greater political as well as economic roles as it has moved onto the international state. One of the most important ways in which the PRC has demonstrated its commitment to a “peaceful rise” is its increasing participation in international organizations. / Notes China specialist Ann Kent: “Formerly castigated as a ‘rogue’ or ‘renegade,’ China has changed its international behavior under the impact of international institutions. Its rapid integration into the international system since it replaced Taiwan as formal representative of ‘China’ in the UN in 1971 is indicated in the expansion of its membership from only one intergovernmental organization (IGO) and fifty-eight international nongovernmental organization (INGOs) in 1966, to forty-six conventional IGOs and 1,568 conventional INGOs in 2003.” / Obviously, quality participation as well as quantity membership matters. Nevertheless, placing nations within a web of international organizations and obligations is more likely to promote the peaceful resolution of conflicts. Of the existing international system, notes G. John Ikenberry of Princeton: “the postwar Western order has an unusually dense, encompassing, and broadly endorsed system of rules and institutions. Whatever its shortcomings, it is more open and rule-based than any previous order.” / Such a system helps shape the decisions of all participants. Asian nations such as the ROK and Japan long ago joined with other nations internationally. This approach will prove particularly valuable for a nation like the PRC as it moves toward the center of the international order. It also offers a positive benefit for a dominant power such as America. Multilateralism emphasizes constructive engagement and helps shift policy from coercion to cooperation. / However, Asian regionalism remains far behind that of Europe, epitomized by the European Union. In fact, observes Scott Snyder of the Asia Foundation: “The failure to develop official regional security cooperation stands in stark contrast to the economic regionalization that has developed along with China’s economic rise.” Important barriers to enhanced Asian political integration remain. Still, as the countries of the Asia-Pacific continue to develop and expand their influence, interest in creating effective regional institutions continues to grow. How far and how fast residents are willing to go is difficult to predict, but ultimately they are likely to go far and fast. This process can and should promote geopolitical stability, creating an even stronger foundation for ongoing economic cooperation and growth.

==2AC Stuff== 

===AT: T-Substantially=== 


**We Meet – we’ll insert a list of the troops on ships into the debate**


[[media type="custom" key="7651231"]]


**There’s a difference between forward–deployment and home–basing – you have to add our numbers together to calculate substantial.**


<span class="SmalltextChar">United States </span><span class="Cite">Navy, No Date </span>
(Date Accessed, 11/11/10, United States Navy, “List of Homeports,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/ships/lists/homeport.asp]]</span>, NJ) 

The following is … Military Sealift Command. 


**“Substantially” has no precise definition**

<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white;"><span class="Cite">Bauschard ‘6 </span></span>
(Stefan, Wake Forest Topic Guide) 

<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: lime;">It is difficult</span> …</span> Vol. 40, 1995, p. 458). 

**But, it should be defined in context**

<span class="Cite">Devinsky, 2 </span>
(Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm) 

In reversing a …the patent documents." 

**Thus, prefer naval definitions – 4 ships are substantial**

<span class="Cite">Eaglen and Dolbow, 8 </span>
(Mackenzie, Senior Policy Analyst for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, AND Jim, M.A. candidate in Statecraft and World Politics at the Institute of World Politics, “SOS: Congress Must Save the Aircraft Carrier Fleet,” Policy Archive, http://www.policyarchive.org/handle/10207/13617, NJ) 

Recently, U.S. Navy … year's defense bills.

**But, if they win numbers are good, prefer 25%**

<span class="Cite">US Code ‘10 </span>
(TITLE 10. ARMED FORCES SUBTITLE A. GENERAL MILITARY LAW PART IV. SERVICE, SUPPLY, AND PROCUREMENT CHAPTER 148. NATIONAL DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE, DEFENSE REINVESTMENT, AND DEFENSE CONVERSION SUBCHAPTER II. POLICIES AND PLANNING, lexis) 

"(f) Definitions. For … obligated by the contract.".


**Presence means visible deterrent force**

<span class="Cite">Patterson, 8 </span>
US Navy Reserve Captain (Mark, “DEFEND THE APPROACHES!”, httpwww.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA486738&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf,) 

Throughout history, U.S. ….<span class="Underline">permissive <span style="background-color: lime;">military op</span></span>eration<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: lime;">s</span></span><span style="background-color: lime;">.</span>


**Their interp wasn’t even passed**

<span class="Cite">Bill Tracking Report, 92</span>
(Bill Tracking Report for the Comprehensive Base Closure Reform and Recovery Act <span class="SmalltextChar">of 1992, 1992 Bill Tracking H.R. 4421; 102 Bill Tracking H.R. 4421, lexis)</span>

<span class="IntenseEmphasis"><span style="background-color: lime;">C</span></span><span class="SmalltextChar">OMPREHENSIVE </span><span class="IntenseEmphasis"><span style="background-color: lime;">B</span></span><span class="SmalltextChar">ASE </span><span class="IntenseEmphasis"><span style="background-color: lime;">C</span></span><span class="SmalltextChar">LOSURE </span><span class="IntenseEmphasis">…</span><span class="SmallTextChar0"> of military installations. </span>


===AT: Debt Commission=== 


**Debt commission won’t pass**

<span class="Cite">Leonard, 11/10</span>/10
(Andrew, Staff writer for the Salon, “A truly radical debt reduction scheme,” The Salon, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.salon.com/news/federal_deficit/?story=/tech/htww/2010/11/10/debt_commission_draft_report]]</span>, NJ) 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">How do you...</span>//<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: 'Times New Roman';">the unemployment rate!)</span>//


**And, Congressional Oversight kills CMR**

<span class="Cite">Snyder, 9 </span>
(Lewis R, Colonel in the National Guard, “THE GENERALS’ REVOLT AND CIVIL-MILITARY RELATIONS,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508321&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>, NJ) 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">For the past...the Department of Defense.</span>



**And, Key to heg**

<span class="Cite">Feaver, 96 </span>
(Peter Feaver, Professor, Duke University, “Delegation, Monitoring and Civilian Control of the Military.” http://www.wcfia.harvard.edu/olin/publications/workingpapers/civil_military/no4.htm)

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Most political applications</span>...<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt; line-height: 19px;">the actors' decisionmaking. </span>

=Negative= 

==Generics== 

===1NC ASPEC K=== 

<span class="CiteCardUpSize-HeavyChar">**ASPEC** </span>

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rotunda ‘1</span></span> <span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(18 Const. Commentary 319, “THE COMMERCE CLAUSE, THE POLITCAL QUESTION DOCTRINE, AND MORRISON,” lexis) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 11pt;">The Framers</span></span> of … of Congress. n12


**Social justice education**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Komesar ‘94 </span></span>
<span class="CardDownSizeChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Neil, John and Rylla Boshard Profesor @ U of Wisconsin, PhD in economics from U Chicago, __Imperfect Alternatives: Choosing Institutions in Law, Economics, and Public Policy__, p. 4-5) </span></span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ambiguity</span></span> and discretion <span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">…</span></span>vow of non-institutionalism. 


**Presumption**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Brovero ‘94 </span></span>
(Adrienne, Immigration Policies Expert, “Immigration Regulation: Borderline Policies,” www.wfu.edu/Studentorganizations/debate/MiscSites/DRGArticles/Brovero1994Immigration.htm )

The problem is …<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 11pt;">an agent</span></span> of action.


===1NC START DA=== 

<span style="page-break-after: avoid;">**START will pass – Lugar’s new substitute resolution**</span>

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rogin 9/7/</span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">10 </span></span>
(Josh, Foreign Policy, "Kerry's draft resolution on New START already facing Hill pushback," <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/09/07/kerrys_draft_resolution_on_new_start_already_facing_hill_pushback]]</span>)

The initial draft … GOP committee votes. 


**Reducing foreign military activism is overwhelmingly unpopular – destroys polcap**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Logan ‘10 </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Justin Logan, Associate Director of Foreign Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, March 23, 2010, “The Domestic Bases of America's Grand Strategy,” online: http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11606 </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: yellow; font-size: 11pt;">Domestic politics </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">… skewed toward activism.</span></span>


**Political capital’s key to passage**

<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Rogov ‘10 </span></span>
(Sergey, director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute, January, BBC, “Russian Russian pundit views <span class="term"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama</span></span>'s first year, prospects for relations with USA,” p. Lexis)

The domestic political … the United States.


**START is key to US-Russian relations, heg, and nonprolif regime**

Butler 7/23 
<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Desmond, 2010, “US-Russia nuke treaty facing hurdles in US Senate”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5iwGbzbS9cELaiIfmBjxLP1o4G8-QD9H4KUL80</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">WASHINGTON — </span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">The once smooth …this <span style="background-color: lime;">is significant</span></span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">." </span></span>


**START solves nuclear war, rogue prolif, terrorism, and US-Russian relations**

<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Collins 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (James Collins, Ambassador to Russia from 1997 – 2001, Director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, recipient of the Secretary of State's Award for Distinguished Service; the Department of State's Distinguished Honor Award; the Secretary of State’s Award for Career Achievement; the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service; and the NASA Medal for Distinguished Service, 2/16/2010. “START is key to reducing the nuclear threat,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=30993) </span>

<span style="display: block; font-size: 7pt; text-align: justify;">But arguments from …we must begin. </span>
===1NC Normativity K=== 


**A. __The Prewritten Script__. The aff’s “should” draws us into normative thought.**


Pierre <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schlag</span></span>, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 19<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">91</span></span>, “Normativity and the Politics of Form,” Lexis-Nexis



Against this backdrop …<span class="Underline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 11pt;"> explicit, they collapse.</span></span>



**B. __Negative Portable Impact__. This desensitizes us to real-world suffering as people outside of debate.**


Richard <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Delgado</span></span>, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 19<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">91</span></span>, “Norms and Normal Science,” Lexis-Nexis 



But what is … with subsistence claims. 



**C. Vote negative as an educator to refuse normativity.**


Pierre <span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schlag</span></span>, Professor of Law @ the University of Colorado, 19<span class="Cite"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">90</span></span>, “Normative and Nowhere to Go,” Lexis-Nexis



All of this …eaucratic logic of institutions.

==COIN Neg== 

===1NC Afghanistan Deterrence DA=== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Withdrawal exacerbates regional instability and obliterates primacy**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Cite">Stephens, 9</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Bret, foreign-affairs columnist of the Wall Street Journal and deputy editorial page editor, responsible for the editorial pages of the Journal's European and Asian editions, was editor-in-chief of the Jerusalem Post in 2002-2004, “The Afghan Stakes,” 9-7, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970203440104574398442481337048.html#articleTabs%3Darticle</span></span>]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="SmalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">So George Will …</span></span>__another 9/11 anniversary.__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Global nuclear omnicide**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Bradley <span class="CiteCardUpSize-HeavyChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Thayer</span></span>, Professor, Security Studies, Missouri State University, 11/<span class="CiteCardUpSize-HeavyChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt;">06</span></span>, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy.”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="Style12ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Those</span></span> arguing <span class="Style12ptUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">for</span></span> …<span class="Cite"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 11pt;">the world's ills</span></span><span class="Style12ptUnderline"><span style="background-color: lime; font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span></span>


==Futenma Neg== 

===1NC Relocation CP=== 



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Text: The United States federal government should end all currently existing relocation plans for Futenma Air Base. The United States federal government should create a new relocation plan that closes Futenma Air Base and moves base assets and forces stationed there to Omura Air Base in Nagasaki Prefecture, Japan.**</span>

**Solves the case and deterrence.**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span class="Cite">Katsumata and Shimbun</span>, 2-5-<span class="Cite">2010</span>**,** <span class="Underline">senior writers for Daily Yomiuri</span>, “Deterrence part of Futenma issue,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100218dy03.htm]]</span></span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Starting with a … between Japan and the United States. </span>

**Relocation CP – boosts Japan-US interoperability – boosts JASA.**

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Yoshida <span class="Cite">Kensei</span>, July 200<span class="Cite">8</span>, <span class="Underline">professor at Obirin University in Japan and has authored a number of books on Okinawa</span>, “US Bases, Japan and the Reality of Okinawa as a Military Colony,” Materials on Arms Reduction, http://old.japanfocus.org/products/topdf/2857</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">Since then, <span class="Underline">Japan … including</span> those in <span class="Underline">Okinawa</span>.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]