Jan/Feb

contact me a eckholm93@gmail for cites, questions etc.
Other ACs (and NCs for that matter) can be found on Nathan Lintz's page.
__//**SHACKLES AC:**//__
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13pt;">The United States Federal Government ought to ban indiscriminate shackling policies in all federal, state, and local juvenile justice systems for juveniles who commit violent felonies. Procedures for physical restraint will be brought in line with the adult systems. I reserve the right to clarify implementation.</span>

<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;">Anita Nabha [J.D. Candidate, Brooklyn Law School, 2009; M.S., Columbia</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> University School of Social Work, 2005; B.A., Amherst College, 2001]</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> “Why Children Should Not be Shackled” Brooklyn Law Review. 2008.</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Lexis-Nexis.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Juvenile Law Center. “Lessons from Luzerne County: Promoting Fairness,</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Transparency and Accountability Recommendations to the Interbranch</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Commission on Juvenile Justice” 2010.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Bernard P. Perlmutter [Assistant Professor of Clinical Legal Education</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> University of Miami School of Law; Director of the Children & Youth</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Law Clinic.] “SYMPOSIUM ISSUE: IN RE GAULT: ARTICLE: "UNCHAIN THE</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> CHILDREN": GAULT, THERAPEUTIC JURISPRUDENCE, AND SHACKLING” Barry Law</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Review Fall, 2007. Lexis Nexis.</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;">Jennifer M. Segadelli [2010 Juris Doctorate candidate at Seattle</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> University School of Law.] “ACCESS TO JUSTICE: Minding the Gap:</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Extending Adult Jury Trial Rights to Adolescents While Maintaining a</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Childhood Commitment to Rehabilitation” Seattle Journal for Social</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal;"> Justice. Spring/Summer. 2010</span>


<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Jeremy Packer, , Assistant Professor of Communications at Penn</span>
<span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 13px; line-height: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> State, Foucault, Cultural Studies, and Governmentality 2003</span><span style="border-collapse: collapse; color: #444444; font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;"> p. 151-153]</span>

Michael Clifford [professor of philosophy at the
Mississippi State University. He holds a Ph.D. in Philosophy from
Vanderbilt University.] "Political Genealogy After Foucault." Routledge
Publications, 2001. pg. 21 DC)

Foucault The History of Sexuality, Volume I: An
Introduction, p. 135-140]

Kulynych, Jessica J. [Assistant Professor of Political Science at Winthrop
University,] "Performing Politics: Foucault,
Habermas, and Postmodern Participation,” Polity (30.2), 1997 p, 37]


William Spanos [Professor of English at Binghamton University], The
End of Education: Towards Posthumanism, 1993, p. 196.

Henry A. Giroux “War Talk, the Death of the Social, and
Disappearing Children: A Lesson for Obama” Truthout. Tuesday, December
16, 2008

__//**NCs that have been broken (again not all of them):**//__
**__//Lawyers PIC//__**
Counterplan text: In the U.S. juveniles charged with violent felonies ought to be treated as adults in the criminal justice system except legal counsel for them must be mandatory.
solvency advocates yo:

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt; line-height: 115%; margin-right: -0.7in;">Berkheiser, Mary. “The Fiction Of Juvenile Right To Counsel: Waiver In The Juvenile Courts” 54 Fla. L. Rev. 2002.</span>

<span class="LDDebateCard"> Grisso 80</span> <span class="LDDebateCut"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas Grisso [Professor of Psychiatry, Director of Psychology, and Director of the Law-Psychiatry Program at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. Associations providing special acknowledgement of Dr. Grisso’s research contributions have included the American Psychological Association’s Award for Distinguished Contributions to Research in Public Policy (1995), the American Psychiatric Association’s Isaac Ray Award (2005), an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice (1998), and an Honorary Fellow Award by the Royal College of Psychiatrists (U.K.).] “Juveniles' Capacities to Waive Miranda Rights: An Empirical Analysis” California Law Review, Vol. 68, No. 6 (Dec., 1980), pp. 1134-1166 </span></span>