[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

Real Napster AC

Governments are Not Moral Agents
Cass Sunstein and Adrian Vermuele, “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17. University of Chicago Law Professor
"In our view...discourage it"

ought is a term of desirability

The value is optimal foreign policy

The standard for the round is utility calculus.

Thesis and sole contention is states ought not possess nuclear weapons to avoid acquisition from terrorists
A- Nuclear Arsenals are at high risk of cyber terrorist attacks
Cyber Terrorism is The Optimal Strat for Terrorist Organizations, Maximizes Destruction and Minimizes Effort

Fritz 09 (Jason, International Commission for non-proliferation and disarmament, Hacking Nuclear Command and Control BS (St. Cloud), MIR (Bond), http://www.icnnd.org/research/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
"Terrorists have...create synergy."

Terrorists Don’t Need Skills To Hack Weapon Systems, They can easily Buy hackers, This is On the Rise Now
Fritz 2
"Cyber terrorists...Indian Mujahedeen"

B- Cyber terrorists can manipulate weapon systems for their personal use

Cyber Terrorists Could Easly Create a False Signal To Create A Nuclear War
Fritz 3
"Cyber terrorists could ... Hollywood film."

MAD/Deterrence increases the risk of cyber terrorism
Fritz 4
"Nuclear command...and autonomous systems"


C- IMPACTS

Cyber Terrorism Increases the Chance of Miscommunication in Heightened Scenarios That Will Lead to The Accidental Launch of Nuclear Weapons Which is Catastrophic and Leads to War
Cimbala (CIMBALA, STEPHEN J. "Accidental/Inadvertent Nuclear War and Information Warfare." Armed Forces & Society: An Interdisciplinary Journal 25.4 (1999): 653. Academic OneFile. Web. 9 Sept. 2010. Document URL
"If the two sides... have unfortunate byproducts"

And famine that would result from even LIMITED REGIONAL nuclear war would lead to global famine, epidemics, and political turmoil in nations.
Helfand 07 (Ira, An Assessment of the Extent of Projected Global Famine Resulting From Limited, Regional Nuclear War Ira Helfand, MD Ira Helfand is an emergency physician and internist practicing in Springfield, Massachusetts, and is on the boards of both Physicians for Social Responsibility and International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War. He has written extensively on the issues of accidental nuclear war and nuclear terrorism. 2007 Royal Society of Medicine
"Somewhat paradoxically...hundreds of millions"


===Butter Battle Book AFF (Rd 1 Bronx)=== 
Dr. Seuss, Butter Battle Book
**<span style="color: maroon; font-family: Arial; font-size: 13.5pt;">"O</span>****<span style="color: maroon; font-family: Arial;">n the last... We will see" </span>**

<span class="cite">The Butter Battle Book is Key to Challenging Dominating Values Within Society </span>
<span class="cite"> </span>
<span class="cite">Nel 99</span> (Philip, PhD Professor at College of Charleston, “Dada Knows Best: Growing up ‘Surreal’ with Dr. Seuss,” Children’s Literature, Vol 27, Muse)


"Placing Dr. Seuss ... the mass market"


Nel 2

"Seuss continued to...he put it"


<span class="cite">Edkins 99</span> (Jenny, Profesor of International Politics at <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://aber.academia.edu/|Aberystwyth University]]</span>, __Poststructuralism and International Relations: Bringing the Political Back In__, Questia, P. 6)

"<span style="font-family: "Times New Roman"; font-size: 12pt;">In Western modernity </span>... of western societies"



==Negative== 

===PAL CP=== 
A: The CP text: The United States ought to equip all nuclear sites with PAL systems and share technology with all states who posses or in the process of acquiring nuclear weapons

B: Net Benefits

PAL Systems would Solve For an Un-authorized Acquisition of Nuclear Weapons, this Solves For the Entirety of the AC

Blair (Bruce, “The Terrorist Threat to World Nuclear Programs,” Currenst WSI President, Garry D. Brewer School of Organization and Management Yale University originally appeared in:The Journal of Conflict Resolution Vol. 31, No. 3, September 1977 pp. 379-403.

“Carefully selected… execution directives”


Even if nukes are acquired, PALs prevent detonation through self-destruction

Steve Fetter, “Reasons for Nuclear Testing,” in Towards a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (Oslo: Royal Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 1992), pp. 8–25

”Turning to the issue … bypass the PAL.”

===Conventional War DA=== 
A-Uniqueness

Nuclear prolif creates incentives for de-escalation and guarantees international stability –

Asal & Beardsley, 2007

[Victor, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci. – SUNY Albany, and Kyle, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci. – Emory U., Journal of Peace Research, “Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior”, 44:2, Sage]

Other, more optimistic, … gains of an attacker’.

B- Link

The Abolition of Nuclear Weapons Will End Stability and Lead to Conventional War Between Nations

Smith 02 (The Abolition of Nuclear Weapons: Possibilities and Practicalities. Contributors: Ron Smith - author. Journal Title: New Zealand International Review. Volume: 22. Issue: 1. Publication Year: 1997. Page Number: 9+. COPYRIGHT 1997 New Zealand Institute of International Affairs; COPYRIGHT 2002 Gale Group)

“To abolish nuclear weapons … a very bad deal.”

C- Impacts

Conventional Wars are worse than nuclear war

Preston, 2007 [Thomas, Associate Prof. IR at Washington State U., Faculty Research Associate, Moynihan Institute of Global Affairs, “From Lambs to Lions: Future Security relationships in a World of Biological and Nuclear Weapons”, p. 31-2]

“1.) The Cost of Deterrence … have resulted in war (Hagerty 1998). “

Conventional war outweighs – more likely to cause massive destruction.

Waltz, 2000 [Kenneth, Prof. Emeritus of Pol. Sci – UC Berkeley, “Interview: Is Kenneth Waltz Still M.A.D. about Nukes?” Winter/Spring, http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/gjia/gjia_winspr00f.html, SM]

“Nuclear weapons are a serious business… and for small nuclear countries.”

===Things CP=== 

The CP TEXT: States ought possess nuclear things


It solves:

Debating specific nuclear systems doesn’t matter, as long as they’re referred to as “nuclear weapons.” The only way to get at the root of nuclear danger is to re-frame the nuclear debate through language. Their deployment of the words “nuclear weapons” ensures the continuance of the violence that causes nuclear danger in the first place.



Brien Hallett, University of Hawaii Matsunaga Institute for Peace, and Ralph Summy, Founder of Peace Studies and professor of political science, University of Queensland, April 2003, Peace and Change, Vol. 28 no. 2, p. 238



“Thus the …prudential regulations.”4’



By using the terms of the opposition, the ENTIRE anti-nuclear movement is effectively disabled. Only by changing language can the movement force the debate onto their own terms, putting proponents of nuclear things on the defensive.



Brien Hallett, University of Hawaii Matsunaga Institute for Peace, and Ralph Summy, Founder of Peace Studies and professor of political science, University of Queensland, April 2003, Peace and Change, Vol. 28 no. 2, p. 236-37



“Before concluding … the entire antinuclear movement.”



Using the traditional nuclear language ensures that the movement plays the role of the loyal opposition – it may be heard, but any time a decision has to be made, decision-makers will reject the movement.

Brien Hallett, University of Hawaii Matsunaga Institute for Peace, and Ralph Summy, Founder of Peace Studies and professor of political science, University of Queensland, April 2003, Peace and Change, Vol. 28 no. 2, p. 238

“Due to the … their decision-makers.”

===Asteroids DA=== 

Apophis is Heading For Earth, Any Attempt To Deflect it Must Begin 10-18 Years Before it Strikes, Meaning 2010 is the Latest We Can Act, Deflecting this Asteroid is Key to Survival, For Realzies

Rakobowchuk 9/5 (Peter Rakobowchuk The Canadian Press Asteroid warning: Get ready for the big one, astronauts say, The Star, http://www.thestar.com/article/857006--asteroid-warning-get-ready-for-the-big-one-astronauts-say

“Canadian and American … planet in 2182.”

The Aff operates in a world without nuclear weapons, this means they will lack the ability to prevent any contact with a large NEO
Nuclear weapons are the most effective method of dealing with asteroids and other methods do not have the technical readiness to replace them

NASA 07 March, Report to Congress, “Near-Earth Object Survey and Deflection Analysis of Alternatives,” http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/171331main_NEO_report_march07.pdf rmg

“The study team … decades are possible.”

Nuclear weapons are the most effective weapon against asteroids because very little data is needed on the asteroid
NASA 07 March, Report to Congress, “Near-Earth Object Survey and Deflection Analysis of Alternatives,” http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/171331main_NEO_report_march07.pdf rmg

“In the impulsive … against most threats.”

Because of an astronomical keyhole an asteroid large enough to destroy the planet will hit the earth unless we destroy it

Lafferty Writer Columbus Dispatch 07

Mike Lafferty, 2-27-2007, "Scientists warn that world needs to keep an eye on asteroids," The Columbus Dispatch, l/n rmg
“Right now, … he said”

Probability- asteroid collision is inevitable and coming soon- guarantees total extinction

Jha Guardian Science correspondent 07 Alok Jha, The Guardian science correspondent, 3-7-7, The Guardian, "Collision with Earth is seen as inevitable, but scientists are meeting to find solution," l/n rmg

“A huge asteroid … a big one.”


===See Mountain Brook AC for Chalupka K=== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]