=[[#September-October]]<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">September-October</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#September-October-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#September-October-Negative]]Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#November-December]]November-December</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#November-December-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
**__//<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AC 1</span>//__**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Standard: Liberation of Racism</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism dooms the planet – it must rejected.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Joseph Barndt, Dismantling Racism: The Continuing Challenge to White America, 1991, p. 155-56</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"To study racism is to study walls... not allow it to continue."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Racism denies the minorities the right to feel human.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Michael Billig, Loughborough University, “Humor and hatred: the racist jokes of the Ku Klux Klan” Discourse & Society, Copyright 2001. Volume 12, No. 3, pp. 267-289</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"The article...violent humour."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DEHUMANIZATION IS THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL; IT CAUSES GENOCIDE, SLAVERY, STERILIZATION, AND SUBJUGATION</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Katz, 1997 (Katheryn D. Katz, prof. of law - Albany Law School, 1997, Albany Law Journal )</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "It is undeniable...misery of others."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DEHUMANIZATION IS WORSE THAN NUCLEAR WAR</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Montagu and Matson, Author and Professor of American at the University of Hawaii, 1983 (Ashley and Floyd, THE DEHUMANIZATION OF MAN, preface)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "It neither...is dehumanization."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mandatory minimums display racism and increase it.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even Obama’s democratic policies on mandatory minimums retain the racist nature of these principles.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russ Belville, July 28, 2010 “Democrats make crack cocaine sentencing slightly less racist” http://stash.norml.org/democrats-make-crack-cocaine-sentencing-slightly-less-racist</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"So Congress, controlled...racist to blacks." </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Beyond the crack and powder cocaine distinction, mandatory minimum systems regarding illegal drugs are racist.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“General Effect of Mandatory Minimum Prison Terms” B S Meierhoefer, Federal Judicial Ctr Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building United States, 1992, NCJ 137258</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Although there... their white counterparts." </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 2:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Mandatory minimums specifically target minorities. Institutionalizes racism.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Olatunde Johnson, Professor of Law at Columbia, 08 [[@http://www3.law.columbia.edu/hrlr/hrlr_journal/39.1/j.%20OJohnson-F.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">LEGISLATING RACIAL FAIRNESS IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE -- Associate Professor, Columbia University School of Law. B.A., Yale University; J.D., Stanford Law School. For helpful research assistance I thank Aimee Pringle and Aslihan Bulut of the Columbia Law School Library. The ideas in this article were originally presented at the symposium entitled “Pursuing Racial Fairness in the Administration of Justice: Twenty Years After McCleskey v. Kemp,” held by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and Columbia Law School on March 2–3, 2007. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "The factors... drug offenders." </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DPA corroborates Johnson’s point:</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Race and the Criminal Justice System” Drug Policy Alliance [1] – organization that provides policy alternatives to the drug war. August 2001</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Unequal treatment of ... profiling and punitive drug policies."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 3: </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Drug laws racist.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Sentencing Project. October 4, 2001. “Crack Cocaine Sentencing Policy: Unjustified and Unreasonable.” See <http://www.sentencingproject.org/pdfs/1003.pdf> (June 16, 2004). </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Approximately 2/3 of ...than white men and women."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This treatment option eliminates the racist nature of the current drug criminalization system. </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Race and the Criminal Justice System” Drug Policy Alliance [2] – organization that provides policy alternatives to the drug war. August 2001</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Affluent predominantly white...particularly to people of color."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Treatment helps these drug abusers by stopping the self-harm they commit by abusing illicit drugs by curbing addiction.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transformations, a Drug & Alchohol Treatment Center. How Can a Drug Treatment Center Help Someone You Love. [[@http://www.transformationstreatment.com/contact.html]] Last Edited on October 26th, 2010.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"A successful drug rehab...drug treatment program."</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#November-December-Negative]]Negative</span>== 
**//__<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NC 1</span>__//**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Link 1: Public health is a form of social control</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Alan R. Petersen. Senior Lecturer in Sociology at Murdoch University, Western Australia. 1997.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Foucault, health and medicine, Page 100-101.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> “All this is not…of good health”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Link 2: Medicalization of social problems justifies biopolitical control.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Peter Conrad. Department of Sociology, Brandeis University; Department of Sociology, Drake University. Annu. Rev. Sociol. 1992 18:209-32: Medicalization and Social Control, Page 216-217.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> “To these categories…for self-regulation”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Link 3: Healthcare system creates slaves of the state.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Robert A. Nye. Professor of the Humanities and pro­fessor of history at Oregon State University. Journal of History of the Behavioral Sciences, Vol. 39(2), 115-129 Spring 2003: The Evolution of the Concept of Medicalization In The Late Twentieth Century, Page 119-120.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> “However, reluctant or not…filth and disorder”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Impact: Genocide</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Michael Foucault. The History of Sexuality. Volume 1: The Introduction: Chapter 5. 1978. Pantheon Books.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> “Since the classical…phenomena of population”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Alt: stop biopolitical control</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Pickett Associate professor of Political Science at Chaldron State College 2005 [On the Use and Abuse of Foucault For Politics pp. 42-43]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> “The ultimate goal…never exist again”</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Framework: K comes first because fiat is illusory.</span>

//__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NC 2</span>**__//

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. Uniqueness: Obama is holding back </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ian Swanson, 9/14/10</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Punishing China becomes issue for Democrats in midterm election,” http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/118813-punishing-china-becomes-issue-in-midterm-election-</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Just a vote legislation back."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B. Link: Reform of US drug laws will drain Obama’s political capital – the affirmative is highly controversial</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Huffington Post 8/9/09</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">http://www.huffingtonpost.com/norm-stamper/drug-prohibition-and-the_b_255006.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"There's little doubt...on health care."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. Internal link: Obama’s political capital is key to prevent China bashing and a decline in the trade relationship</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ide 10 </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(William, Washington Bureau – VOA, “US, China Meet to Smooth Ties; Analysts Say Big Challenges Remain”, Voice of America News, 9-8, [[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/asia/US-China-Meet-to-Smooth-Ties-Analysts-Say-Big-Challenges-Remain-102472234.html]])</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"Liberthal noted...said Liberthal."</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama’s political capital is key to check China bashing protectionist legislation</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Financial Times 9/12/10</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [Alan Beattie, “Beijing currency saga returns,” September 12, 2010, [[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/716f8442-be86-11df-a755-00144feab49a.html]]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"The Obama...on an airliner."</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">D. Impact – protectionism against China collapses trade, the global economy, and causes US/China war
Droke, 10 – Editor of the Momentum Strategies Report (3/29/10, Green Faucet, “America and the Next Major War,” [[http://www.greenfaucet.com/technical-analysis/america-and-the-next-major-war/79314]])</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> "In the current phase...suffer," writes Barker."</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US China war causes global nuclear war
Johnson, 1 (5/14/01, The Nation, “Time to Bring the Troops Home,” [[http://www.thenation.com/article/time-bring-troops-home]])</span></span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">"No sane...nuclear holocaust."</span>




=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#January-February]]January-February</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#January-February-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#January-February-Negative]]Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#March-April]]March-April</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#March-April-Affirmative]]Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#March-April-Negative]]Negative</span>==