=<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Affirmative</span>= 
*1AC*

PLAN: THE USFG SHOULD FULLY FUND AND LAUNCH THE JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE.


1AC Solvency/Inherency
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Webb telescope will be cut in the status quo – delay causes tech failure, launch date set back and kills focus</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Clark 11</span> (Stephen, writer @ spaceflight now, 7/14/11, http://www.spaceflightnow.com/news/n1107/14jwst/index.html) JPG
One week after a House subcommittee proposed terminating NASA's costly successor to the orbiting Hubble observatory, agency officials told an advisory panel Thursday that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the James Webb Space Telescope can be launched as soon as 2018, but political realities could delay the mission's start well into the 2020s. </span>Following an independent assessment condemning JWST's management practices, NASA kicked off its own review to come up with a realistic projection of the flagship space telescope's projected launch date and total cost. Rick Howard, NASA's JWST program director, said the agency determined <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the observatory could launch</span> on a European Ariane 5 rocket <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">as soon as</span> October <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">2018, but it would require fresh funding.</span> And with the federal government focused on wrangling in debt, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">a budget increase for the troubled JWST project is unlikely.</span> NASA officials were speaking to the agency's astrophysics advisory council, a board of senior researchers chartered to provide advice and input in major scientific and programmatic decisions. "To get to [launch] in 2018, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it's going to take a significant amount of new funds,"</span> Howard said. But no one would say how much it will cost to launch the telescope in 2018. The White House has embargoed those figures until the Obama administration rolls out its fiscal year 2013 budget request next February. Until then, scientists said, it will be difficult to persuade the astronomy and astrophysics communities JWST is still worth continued NASA investment, which is gobbling up the agency's dwindling space science budget and holding back the start of other missions. NASA has spent $3.5 billion on JWST to date. An independent review team reported in November the mission would likely cost at least $6.5 billion, assuming it could launch in 2015. In President Obama's last budget request, which covers the fiscal year starting in October, the administration proposed spending $375 million annually on JWST over the next five years. To many scientists attending the two-day advisory council meeting in Washington this week, that is the best-case scenario. The House Appropriations Committee's panel overseeing NASA last week released a draft budget that would cancel JWST. There is more support for the mission in the Senate, but budget-conscious lawmakers could sway Congress to slash JWST's budget or keep it flat. "<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">If we stick at that, we're talking about stretching out the program and launching well beyond 2020,"</span> Howard said. "I think, personally, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">that is not</span> a <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">viable</span> solution space." Ed <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Weiler</span>, NASA's associate administrator for science, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">called the </span>Obama administration's <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">flat budget for JWST a "road to nowhere." </span>"You'll get to launch, but our grandchildren will have to use it," Weiler said. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Stretching out the program and launching the observatory in the 2020s will inevitably add to the mission's overall cost</span>, Weiler said. "If you want to do JWST as early as possible, and with a high level of confidence...this is the replan you want to use," Howard said. "If you start pushing things out to the right, it's going to cost more. If you want the least amount of money from the taxpayer, this is it." <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Delaying the launch beyond 2020 would also stress the development team's ability to stay focused on the project</span>. Howard said two of his primary concerns are keeping the team intact and storing some components, such as mirrors and instruments, which are due for completion by 2012 and not due for more work until years later. "It is best to complete this work and retire the risk...rather than stretching out the delivery schedules of the instruments from Europe or Canada or stopping and starting test activities," Howard said. "The result is you have long periods of low levels of activity or inactivity for some subsystems." Speaking to the House Science, Space and Technology Committee this week, NASA Administrator Charlie Bolden implied JWST could be launched at the same cost as Hubble. "I would say that for about the same cost as Hubble in real-year dollars, we'll bring James Webb into operation," Bolden said. NASA has spent about $10 billion on Hubble since its inception, but it was launched years later than planned after development difficulties, rising costs and the Challenger accident of 1986. "JWST hasn't got close yet to the 400 percent overruns on Hubble," Weiler said. "No one remembers the Hubble overruns yet because it's the greatest thing since sliced bread." The next-generation James Webb mission will be parked one million miles from Earth, out of reach of any conceivable servicing and repair mission. Hubble's success is due to the space shuttle's ability to fix broken parts and replace scientific instruments in low Earth orbit. Weiler and Howard agreed <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">scaling back JWST's lofty science ambitions would do nothing to save money at this point. </span>Developed as the replacement for the Hubble Space Telescope, JWST is a joint project between NASA and the European Space Agency. With a 21.3-foot-diameter primary mirror, the telescope is designed to peer back in time almost to the Big Bang, giving astronomers a glimpse of infant galaxies as the universe cooled after its formation. JWST will also track the evolution of galaxies, observe star formation and measure the chemical make-up planets beyond the solar system, potentially investigating whether life is possible on those planets. It carries four instruments built by consortiums in the United States, Europe and Canada. "It's too late in the program," Weiler said. The <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">instruments are almost delivered. The mirrors are finished.</span> It's like all over the [world], you're building a car where the carburetor is in California and the motor's in Germany. The good news is <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">we've got most of the pieces built</span>. How do we descope it when the real cost is putting it all together?" A team evaluating JWST's lengthy test campaign recommended shaving six months from the mission's development by eliminating redundant tests and optimizing the schedule. About <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">75 percent of the flight hardware,</span> as measured by mass, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">is ready to fabricate, in fabrication, in testing or already delivered, </span>according to NASA. That doesn't account for complicated lightweight mechanisms like the sunshield, a five-layer insulating blanket the size of a tennis court. The sunshield will keep JWST's infrared instruments cool enough to resolve cold pockets of the universe and distant galaxies. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">"Descoping and cutting things back aren't going to help you, other than losing science," Howard said.</span> "You're not going to gain anything by doing it."


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Funding is the only barrier – the tech and hardware are there</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Borowitz 11</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> (Mariel John, research analyst @ space foundation, July 2011, PhD candidate @ university of Maryland, http://www.spacefoundation.org/docs/James_Webb_Space_Telescope_-_A_Worthy_Investment.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Technical performance in developing the James Webb Space Telescope has been excellent, and more than 75 percent of the telescope’s hardware has already been delivered. The funding required to complete the project in a timely manner should be provided</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">, allowing the United States, its international partners, and the world to realize all the benefits articulated above.15 Unrealistic cost estimating, such as that which positioned JWST for cost and schedule overruns, is unfortunate and frustrating for everyone involved. While recrimination has its place, the nation must make decisions based upon current reality. According to the report of the Independent Comprehensive Review Panel, released in late 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the current estimate for completing and launching JWST by 2015 is approximately $1.5 billion.</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> So the decision at hand is whether to cut JWST funding and gain none of the capabilities offered by the observatory, or to fund JWST to its logical conclusion—completion of the project. 16 </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">In making this cost-benefit decision,</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> each of the myriad of benefits offered by </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST is compelling</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">. In aggregate, the case for JWST is overwhelming. In addition, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">truncating funding for a project for which 75 percent of the hardware has been delivered—and whose technical progress is described by an independent panel as “commendable and often excellent”—represents a “penny wise and pound foolish”approach</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> to stewardship of taxpayer dollars.17 </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The James Webb Space Telescope should be fully funded</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">. In addition to fiscal and political considerations, it is our shared responsibility and privilege to enable new generations to experience the excitement of seeing things no one has ever seen before and to feel the thrill of unlocking the secrets of the universe.</span>


1AC Adv 1
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Recent studies prove China will quickly become the science leader absent US investments in major projects</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Shelton and Foland 10</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> (R.D. Felton – president at World Tech Evaluation Center (WTEC), and P. Foland – researcher @ WTEC, 2/24/10, http://www.usinnovation.org/files/RaceforInnovationRSheltonWTEC.pdf) JPG</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">A simple summary</span> of the current status of the indicators selected here also <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">makes it sound like the US lead is alive and</span> pretty <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">well</span>; it leads in researchers, GERD, patents, impacts, and high technology exports. However, the EU leads in GDP, SCI publications, Nobel prizes, and PhD production. China leads only in overall international trade balance, and that vast population of producers and consumers. But, as shown by the forecasts, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the trends are very unfavorable for the US and the EU. They show that it is just a matter of time--short for leading indicators</span> like the number of researchers, and longer for lagging ones like patents-- <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">until China will be a scientific superpower</span> comparable to the US and EU, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">and perhaps lead the world</span> by a reasonable selection of indicators. Only a paradigm shift could disrupt this process. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The</span> current <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">financial crisis may</span> slow, or even <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">speed</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">China’s</span> relative <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">progress</span>. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Or</span> politicians in <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Western nations could wake up to this</span> emerging <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">challenge to their scientific leadership and do something about it.</span> If Shelton is right about GERD share being the driver, the only realistic remedy for loss of leadership in publications (and perhaps for other indicators) is by matching China’s rapid increases in R&D investment. (Trying to gain share by increasing national efficiency in papers per dollar invested, as some smaller nations have done, is even more difficult for these huge science establishments.) Thus <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Western nations would have to make a substantial reallocation of budgets toward</span> this kind of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">long-term investment</span>—by both governments and industry. Sounds impossible? Of course, this is just what has been done in China, South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Some are sceptical of</span> such findings about <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">China’s progress toward world leadership of science</span> and technology. They cite visits to Chinese labs that merely follow Western science, or speak of their (current) low rate of other output indicators like citations or patents. However, some confirmation of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">these</span> quantitative <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">findings comes from recent qualitative studies of R&D in China.</span> Since 2005 WTEC has sent four peer-review delegations to the PRC on simulation, carbon nanotubes, catalysis, and brain-computer interfaces; reports are posted at (WTEC, 2009). This small sample tends to confirm these trends; delegations always are struck by how rapid Chinese progress is. Only very recent witnesses can be up-to-date. Is China’s rapid growth in S&T really unprecedented? Like China in 1976, Japan in 1854 was deliberately isolated and backward in the day’s technology. Afterwards, Japan made incredible progress in industrializing to the point that they could defeat a Great Power (Russia) in 1905 using the highest technologies of the day. Japan also quickly went from rags to riches after World War II by manufacturing for export, then using the profits to achieve self-sufficiency in technology. In planning the recovery from the wreckage of the Cultural Revolution in the late 1970s, Deng Xiaoping clearly had in mind Japan’s successes, and other similar ones in the region. Since science itself is much more than a zero-sum game, everyone should appreciate that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the Chinese are making huge and rapidly increasing investments in science and in science education, and are starting to reap the output benefits</span>, which benefit all mankind. Westerners only wish their governments could be so wise in their investments – for even greater benefit to mankind.


<span style="font-size: 16px;">US is struggling to attract top students – cancellation Webb decks US space science leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Overbye 11</span> (Dennis, writer @ NYT, 7/7/11, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/science/07webb.html?_r=1) JPG
Astronomers reacted with immediate dismay, fearing that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the death of the Webb telescope could have the same dire impact on American astronomy that killing the Superconducting Supercollider</span>, a giant particle accelerator in Texas, did in 1993 for American physics, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">sending leadership abroad. Canceling the Webb telescope would “have a profound impact on astrophysics far into the future, threatening U.S. leadership in space science,”</span> said Matt Mountain, director of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, which would run the new telescope. “This is particularly disappointing at a time when <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the nation is struggling to inspire students to take up science and engineering,”</span> he added. Tod R. Lauer, an astronomer at the National Optical Astronomy Observatory in Tucson, echoed his view. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">“This would be an unmitigated disaster for cosmology,”</span> he said. “After two decades of pushing the Hubble to its limits, which has revolutionized astronomy, the next step would be to pack up and give up. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The Hubble is just good enough to see what we’re missing at the start of time.” The Webb telescope</span>, he said, “<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">would bring it home in full living color.”</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">There are no technical hurdles to Webb – funding is key to international science leadership and cooperation – also stimulates public interest</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Discover 11</span> (7/7/11, http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/cosmicvariance/2011/07/07/james-webb-space-telescope/) JPG
JWST is a 6.5 meter IR-optimized telescope, which has been scheduled to launch in 2018. It is certainly true that it has suffered from numerous cost overruns, and has essentially eaten the rest of the NASA astrophysics program. However, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">nearly all the technical hurdles have now been overcome. And the science reach of JWST is spectacular. It is now the only observatory-class mission</span> planned to operate once the current Great Observatories (Hubble, Spitzer, Chandra) reach their end of life. JWST has been the highest priority for NASA of the Decadal Surveys and essentially every other study commissioned by the field. Hubble Space Telescope has given us amazing views of the Universe, back to about a billion years after the big bang. However, it has reached its limits there — JWST would allow us to see well into this first billion years, to view the formation of the first stars, galaxies, and black holes, and to study in detail how radiation from these objects reionized the Universe. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">There are no other planned missions that will allow us to observe this earliest stage of galaxy formation with this</span> level of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">detail</span>. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST would also allow us to observe the chemical composition of planets outside the solar system</span>, and to image the disks around stars as they begin planet formation. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">It is hard to overstate the impact of HST on astronomy</span> over the last two decades, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">and</span> in particular on <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">thepublic’s engagementwith</span> astronomy and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">science</span> in general. There is just something incredibly inspiring and awesome about <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">space-based observatories</span> and the images they produce, that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">are unmatched by ground-based telescopes.</span> JWST is a natural successor to Hubble in this mission: it has tremendous potential to be a vehicle of wonder. In addition to the science that would be lost, the funding losses to US astronomy, and the set back of our research progress, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">this loss to the public inspiration and engagement in scientific discovery could be</span>one of the most <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">substantial</span>hits if JWST does not go forward. I encourage all who are concerned about the next decade of astronomy to contact your representatives and senators as soon as possible. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Termination of JWST would reduce the strength and visibility of the US science program as a whole, its impacts would be felt far beyond astrophysics. Killing JWST now also substantially threatens US credibility as an international partner, and sends the message that the US is just not interested in scientific leadership in major projects.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Astronomy leadership is key to STEM education</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Blandford et. al 10</span> – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, //New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics//, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 103-5]
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Astronomy offers a high return on investment for the U</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">S</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">attracting young people to science and technology careers and providing the kind of education and training that can help solve major societal challenges</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> involving science and technology. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Because astronomy enjoys broad public appeal as an accessible science, it also plays a role in</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> K-12 science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">STEM</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">) </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">education and encourages science literacy</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> in the population as a whole. Many of the breakthroughs being made in our understanding of the universe involve close connections with other scientific fields, developments in which also find increasing application in our everyday lives. At the same time, an enthusiastic and vibrant amateur community continues to play an important role in the advancement of the field in specific areas (e.g., variable stars; discovery of comets, supernovae, and microlensing events) (see Figure 4.1). </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Practitioners of astronomy and astrophysics pursue research in the U</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">S</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">in a wide variety of venues</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, including public and private universities and observatories; national observatories, centers, and laboratories; industry; and museums and planetariums. There is a recognized need to encourage underrepresented groups to participate in the profession. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Recent growth in the number of Ph.D. astronomers has been driven by the exciting opportunities in the field</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Although the research enterprise itself may not be able to offer permanent positions to all qualified new entrants to the field, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">training in U.S. astronomy and astrophysics programs affords the ability to pursue many valuable career paths</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Benefits of Astronomy to the Nation Astronomy Engages the Public in Science </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Astronomy stirs the public imagination and the human spirit</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Indeed, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the results of modern astronomical research are already deeply ingrained in our culture, and terms like “light-year,” “big bang,” and “black hole” have joined the vernacular</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. The astronomy aisle of any fully stocked bookstore includes large, beautiful picture books of the cosmos as well as technical books about the advancing frontier—­written by working astronomers, writers educated as astronomers, and journalists. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">About once per week on average, national television broadcasts an interview with a professional astronomer</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, a rate that increases dramatically during the semi­annual meetings of the American Astronomical Society (AAS). </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The steady stream of discoveries from space missions and</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> ground-based </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">telescopesgenerates hundreds of press stories per year and has made some facilities, such as the</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> Hubble Space Telescope (</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">HST</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">), </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">into international icons</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">A single astronomical image can play a large role in our cultural life</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The Eagle Nebula</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, framed by HST, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">is an inspiring work of art</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> (Figure 4.2). </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The iconic Apollo 8 photograph of Earth rising over the lunar landscape</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, showing its blue oceans, dry land, and clouds floating alone in the cosmic void with no national ­ boundaries visible (Figure 4.3), </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">testifies to the unity of mankind far more effectively than any political speech</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">— and in delivering that message emphasizes a value to society that may be beyond measure. Astronomy on television has come a long way since the 1980 PBS premier of Carl Sagan’s ground-breaking multipart documentary Cosmos. Many cable channels offer copious programming on a large variety of astronomical topics, and the big-three networks occasionally offer specials on the universe, too. Another barometer of the public’s curiosity about the cosmos is the popularity of IMAXformat films on space science, as well as the number of big-budget Hollywood movies whose plotlines derive directly or indirectly from space themes (including 5 of the top 10 grossing movies of all time in the United States). The Internet also plays a pervasive role in bringing astronomy to the public, attracting worldwide audiences on websites such as Galaxy Zoo (http://www.galaxyzoo.org) and others that feature astronomical events such as NASA missions. Astronomy applications are now available for most mobile devices, and even social networking technology plays a role, e.g., by enabling tweets from the Spitzer NASA Infrared Processing and Analysis Center (http://twitter.com/cool_cosmos). </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Public interest in astronomy has caught the attention of corporate giants as well, which see commercial value in and synergy with what astronomers do</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. The Microsoft World Wide Telescope, a corporate version of previously underfunded efforts of astronomers to coordinate the world’s public-domain cosmic imagery and make it available in one resource, allows people on home PCs to explore the cosmos as if they were at the helm of the finest ground and space-based telescopes. And Google’s interest in maps now extends to the universe, as seen in Google Earth, Google Sky, Google Moon, and Google Mars. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">These nascent corporate efforts to connect people with the broader universe offer yet another indication of the breadth and depth of influence that discovery of the cosmos enjoys in our culture</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Astronomers</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, too, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">have seized opportunities to be innovators in public outreach. New approaches to promoting public engagement in science include “citizen science,” bringing astronomy to wide audiences via large databases available on the Internet and enabling amateur scientists to participate actively in the analysis of astronomical data</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> (Figure 4.4). </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The continued growth of astronomical data sets will allow further opportunities for public involvement over the coming decade</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">STEM is key to the US economy and competitiveness</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Augustine 7</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> (Norman, retired CEO of Lockheed Martin, serves on Pres’s Council of Advisors on Science and Tech, 3/13/7, http://commdocs.house.gov/committees/science/hsy33801x.000/hsy33801x_0f.htm) JPG</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The United States takes deserved pride in the vitality of its economy</span>, which forms the foundation of our high quality of life, our national security, and our hope that our children and grandchildren will inherit ever-greater opportunities. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">That vitality is derived</span> in large part <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">from the productivity of well-trained people and the steady stream of scientific and technical innovations</span> they produce. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Without high-quality, knowledge-intensive jobs and the innovative enterprises that lead to discovery and new technology, our economy will suffer</span> and our people will face a lower standard of living. Economic studies conducted before the information-technology revolution have shown that even then <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">as much as 85 percent of measured growth in U.S. income per capita is due to technological change.</span>(see footnote 1) Today, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Americans are feeling the</span> gradual and subtle <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">effects of globalization that challenge the economic and strategic leadership</span> that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the United States</span> has <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">enjoyed</span> since World War II. A substantial portion of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">our workforce finds itself in direct competition</span> for jobs with lower-wage workers <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">around the globe</span>, and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">leading-edge scientific and engineering work is being accomplished in many parts of the world.</span> Thanks to globalization, driven by modern communications and other advances, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">workers in virtually every sector must now face competitors who live just a mouse-click away</span> in Ireland, Finland, China, India, or dozens of other nations whose economies are growing.


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Economic Collapse risk global nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Harris and Burrows 09</span> PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) & member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit
Mathew, and Jennifer “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” <span style="color: #000000;">[[@http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf|__http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf__]]</span>

Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so,<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">history may be more instructive than ever</span>. While we continue to believe that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the Great Depression</span> is not likely to be repeated, the <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">lessons</span> to be drawn from that period <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies</span> (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">and</span> on the<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">sustainability of multilateral institutions</span> (think League of Nations in the same period). <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century</span>. For that reason, the ways in which <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the potential for greater conflict could grow</span> would seem to be even more apt <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">in a constantly volatile economic environment</span> as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced.</span> For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Terrorist groups</span> in 2025 <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">will</span> likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks_and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of an</span>y <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">economic</span>ally-<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would</span> almost certainly be <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the Middle East</span>. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">worries</span> about a nuclear-armed Iran <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">couldlead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions.</span> It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">conflict</span> and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict</span> if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">close proximity of potential nuclear rivals</span>combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty</span>of Iranian intentions <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">may place more focus on preemption</span> rather than defense, potentially <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">leading to escalating crises</span>. 36 Types of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">conflict</span> that the world continues to experience, such as <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">over resources, could reemerge</span>, particularly if <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions</span> of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources</span>, for example, to be <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">essential for</span> maintaining domestic stability and the <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">survival of their regime</span>. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">If</span> the <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">fiscal stimulus focus for</span> these<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional</span> naval <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves</span>, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes.<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">With water</span> also <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult</span> both <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.</span>




<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space leadership and STEM are key to hegemony</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Bell 11</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> (Larry, prof @ Houston U, director of Sasakawa Intl Center for Space Architectre and grad program, 7/12/11, http://blogs.forbes.com/larrybell/2011/07/12/does-the-united-states-still-care-about-space-leadership/) JPG</span>
So <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">what have we really gained from </span>these <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">space developments </span>up until now, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">thus warranting </span>rededicated <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">leadership and investment? </span>Consider the answer from your personal experience, but with a few broad issues in mind. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">First, </span>we’ve all heard about <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">unexpected space technology spin-offs </span>— everything from Teflon to the satellite-dependent internet network, with all manner of other “space age” innovations in between. Sure, those products and discoveries appear endless, but a lot of them might well have occurred as a result of free market innovation incentives anyway. Yes, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">space exploration programs</span>produce technological innovations, but even more, don’t they <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">produce inspiration for </span>our children, grandchildren <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">and other generations who </span>follow to <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">realize that the sky is literally no limit </span>to what can be achieved with ambitious goals, solid educational foundations and disciplined commitment? <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">They will</span>be the ones that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">advance future innovation and progress in all fields. Contributions to encourage vision, leadership and competence are vital products that will drive our nation’s future</span>– and theirs as well. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Then there’s</span> the matter of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">national security and prestige reflected by technological superiority</span>. After all, that priority really got our space program off the ground from its inception. Despite diminished superpower competition that attended the Soviet Union’s implosion, it’s hard to dismiss some lingering concerns that validate needs for continuing progress in these areas as well. Of course, we could rely on a military space program for much of that, and forget about winning approval for appearing to be nice. But again, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">doesn’t our national security most fundamentally depend upon the continued vitality of our economy</span>…our ability, among other things, to stay ahead of the technology curve? Here, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">space exploration has served to stimulate interests of young people in science – and engineering – based studies</span>, providing lessons and problem-solving challenges that apply at all levels of learning. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Sadly</span>, however, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">many of the technical programs in top-ranked U.S. universities are now dominated by students from Asia and India. In China, strong math and science backgrounds are prerequisites for admittance to the best universities</span> or to be hired by foreign corporations operating there. The Microsoft research center in Beijing is one of the most sought-after places there, and the competition is fierce. There is a popular saying: “If you are one in a million, there are 1,300 people just like you.” <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">It’s difficult to ignore the symbolic and real benefits of international cooperation and national prestige gained through space exploration developments</span>. But I submit that there is something else that our programs represent of equal or even greater value. Namely, it is less important how the rest of the world views us; instead it’s about how we see ourselves: as a culture willing to take risks in quests for uncertain, yet potentially unlimited rewards; as a nation that recognizes that to not do something presents one of the greatest risks of all; because that’s the sort of people we are.


<span style="font-size: 16px;">The telescope is 75 percent complete and only needs funding – webb is key to maintain space and science leadership against rising competitors</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Gough 11</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> (Myles, writer @ Cosmos Science Magazine, 7/21/11, http://www.cosmosmagazine.com/features/online/4541/will-cost-kill-hubble%E2%80%99s-successor?page=0%2C0) JPG</span>
"<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Such a proposal threatens American leadership in the fields of astrophysics and advanced space technology</span> while likely eliminating hundreds, if not thousands, of high-tech jobs," said a statement issued by the American Astronomical Society following the bill's release. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">"This would be the biggest disaster in U.S. astronomy</span> to have the project cancelled now ... <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">and would demonstrate a severe loss of confidence in the U.S. for funding major science facilities</span>," echoes Couch. "I can't imagine for a minute that astronomers in their science community, and even the public at large, would take this lying down."<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The scientific reward is "absolutely" worth the cost, </span>says Couch, especially when you look at Hubble's legacy of scientific discovery, which has hailed the dawn of exoplanets and given rise to better understanding of stellar populations in the Milky Way and nearby galaxies. NASA administrator Charles <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Bolden told </span>members of the Science, Space and Technology committee on July 12 that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the telescope could be brought into operation for about the same cost in "real-year dollars" as the Hubble</span>, which has already had five service missions and more than 20 spacewalks devoted to extending its lifespan.He also told committee members that the <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">management had been restructured and that 75% of the hardware for the telescope had already been delivered</span>. Construction has been ongoing since 2004, and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the spacecraft has already passed preliminary and critical design reviews."Scrapping it makes no sense, you lose your entire investment,"</span> says Charley Lineweaver, an astrophysicist from the Australian National University in Canberra. "It makes much more sense … to slow the project down but keep it going."From a scientific perspective, continuity with Hubble after it runs its course is not that important, says Lineweaver, "but from a manpower point of view, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it's important to keep the best astronomers and instrument builders employed."</span>As the U.S. government wrangles over how to move forward with the James Webb, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Russia has re-asserted its space-based scientific presence</span> with the July 18 launch of a powerful space-based radio telescope, Spektr-R, that has also drawn comparisons to the Hubble. The long delayed Spektr-R telescope was placed into a highly elliptical orbit around Earth that peaks around 330,000 km - roughly 50,000 km shy of the moon. With the end of NASA's shuttle program, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Russia also remains the only nation capable of transporting astronauts to the International Space Station. </span>In 2010, a NASA-conducted survey of the American astronomical community, asking them to prioritise their most important scientific questions and the missions that will be required to answer them, identified two of the top three research areas as requiring an operational James Webb."<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The United States position as the leader in astronomy, space science, and spaceflight is directly threatened by this proposal," says the American Astronomical society. </span>"Too many taxpayer dollars have already been spent to cancel the mission now; <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">its benefits far outweigh the remaining costs. We must see the mission through."</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Webb is key to perception of US space and science leadership</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Illingworth 11</span> (Garth, PhD in astronomy & astrophysics @ Australia National U, Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics Astronomer, UC Observatories/Lick Observatory,1/21/11, www.stsci.edu/jwst/community-advice/JSTAC_Holdren_JWST.pdf) JPG
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The James Webb Space Telescope</span> is a project of astonishing scientific capability that is the natural successor to the iconic Hubble Space Telescope. With 100X the power of Hubble, yet a comparable cost to launch, it <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">reflects the huge technological steps that the US</span>, and our international partners (Europe and Canada), <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">have made</span> in the last two- three decades since Hubble was designed and built. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST will maintain US leadership in space science and technology. </span>The partnership for JWST with the European Space Agency (ESA), its member states and the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) reflects the success of such past partnerships (e.g., Hubble) between NASA and these international agencies. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST</span> was the top- ranked project of all projects, ground and space, in the 2000 US Decadal Survey, and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">is extensively acknowledged as a cornerstone of the next decade’s astronomical research</span> in the 2010 US Decadal Survey (where it was understood for the report that JWST would become operational this decade). Furthermore, JWST is now the single largest investment by Canada in astronomy and a major investment by Europe, consistent with its very high scientific importance to each of their scientific and political communities. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">It is crucial for our international partners that JWST progresses expeditiously. </span>Hubble, and the other ongoing Great Observatories (Chandra and Spitzer) have demonstrated the value and cost-effectiveness of broadly-capable space observatories through their wide-ranging and continuing scientific discoveries. Such Great Observatories have been shown to return discoveries very cost-effectively. The Great Observatories have also made a disproportionately large contribution to advancing public science interest and literacy (Hubble again is the pre-eminent example). Furthermore, the breadth of the science programs that such flagship missions can undertake, along with their ability to respond quickly to discoveries from other missions and observatories, makes them a truly unique scientific resource that benefits large numbers of scientists, their students and their postdoctoral researchers. Hubble’s role in the discovery of planets beyond our solar system, of dark energy, and of young galaxies looking back through 96% of time to just 500 Myr after the Big Bang are some of the many examples of forefront science areas that have touched the popular imagination. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST will</span> play a similar role to Hubble, except that its dramatically higher performance will lead to an <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">even broader range of</span> studies and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">discoveries</span> even <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">closer to the cutting- edge of astrophysical frontiers</span>. The James Webb Space Telescope Advisory Committee (JSTAC) is an international committee of senior members of the scientific community who are experienced with large space projects and their optimal operation. Given the importance and cost of JWST, the Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) Director set up JSTAC with the support and concurrence of NASA, ESA and CSA. The core focus of the JSTAC is to offer advice on maximizing the scientific return from JWST within its 5-year required life (10-yr goal). The JSTAC’s recommendations to the STScI Director are made available to the space agencies and are also made public to the science community (and all interested parties) through the STScI website. The space agencies are also cognizant of the JSTAC’s deliberations and recommendations through their ex-officio agency members. The JSTAC fully endorses the completion of the construction and the launch of JWST not only because it will dramatically increase humanity’s understanding of the cosmos, but also because it will continue Hubble's legacy of inspiring the next generation of scientists. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST will also demonstrate technologies crucial for future NASA science missions of all sizes. </span>The JSTAC is very concerned that recent funding and management issues during the development process for JWST may place the future of the mission at risk. The JWST Independent Comprehensive Review Panel (ICRP) report provided a critical assessment of the recent management problems and budget issues in response to a letter from Senator Mikulski to the NASA Administrator. As the ICRP report noted, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">technical progress on the mission had been excellent but a number of issues</span> have arisen that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">require additional funding to resolve.</span> The JSTAC recognizes the fiscal challenges facing the US as well as the international partners, but asks for your support and that of OSTP to work with OMB and NASA, and ultimately Congress, to find a cost- effective approach to bring this remarkable mission to fruition. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The impact of not </span>moving forward expeditiously towards <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">launching JWST as soon as practical would reverberate far beyond the astronomical science community</span>. The cancellation of the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) had ramifications for US leadership in the physical sciences that is still being felt. The center of gravity of high- energy physics moved to Europe. As a project of comparable scale and scientific importance, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST is crucial to US scientific leadership both in science and through the visibility of its space program.</span> US leadership in space has arisen through NASA’s human spaceflight program and through its stunningly successful and popular science missions. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">To abandon JWST at this time would not only have a dramatic impact on NASA’s science programs, but would also have a dramatic impact on US leadership in space. JWST</span>, like Hubble, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">is a flagship program that has public visibility and scientific capabilities</span> far beyond smaller missions. The cost and the risks of flagships are more than compensated for by the scientific and public interest returns. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Our international partners are making very substantial investments in JWST</span>, and are key partners for the US effort. The contributions of the European Space Agency (ESA), its member states and the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) are central to the success of the project. Europe is providing two scientific instruments, the launch vehicle and operations staff for the project at the STScI. In value, this contribution is equivalent to the total cost of a medium-sized space mission within ESA. The Canadian contribution of the critical fine guidance sensor and a further science instrument is the largest space science project supported to date by the Canadian Space Agency. The CSA also provides operations staff at the STScI. The international contributions have been essential for the development and implementation of the project and their contributions represent a major commitment of their resources towards a project that will do much to raise the visibility of the US and its technological capabilities. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST is challenging but doable. No other nation could currently undertake a mission of the scale of JWST. JWST distinguishes the US technologically and scientifically, and is a striking example of US leadership in</span> the field of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">space science</span>. The JSTAC asks for your support in moving JWST forward expeditiously to launch. I would be happy to provide further information or a briefing on the importance of the JWST science mission from the perspective of the JSTAC.



<span style="font-size: 16px;">Science leadership is critical to science diplomacy which solves wars, the economy, and the environment</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dr. Federoff 8</span> <span style="font-size: 12px;">(Nina, Sec of State, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-110hhrg41470/html/CHRG-110hhrg41470.htm)</span>
Chairman Baird, Ranking Member Ehlers, and distinguished members of the Subcommittee, thank you for this opportunity to discuss science diplomacy at the U.S. Department of State. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The U.S. is recognized globally for its leadership in science</span>and technology. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Our scientific strength is both a tool of ``soft power''</span>--part of our strategic diplomatic arsenal--<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">and a basis for creating partnerships</span>with countries as they move beyond basic economic and social development. Science diplomacy is a central element of the Secretary's transformational diplomacy initiative, because <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">science and technology are essential to achieving stability and strengthening failed</span> and fragile <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">states. S&T advances have immediate and enormous influence on national and global economies</span>, <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">and thus on the international relations between societies. Nation states, nongovernmental organizations, and multinational corporations are largely shaped by their expertise in and access to intellectual and physical capital in science, technology, and engineering. Even as S&T advances of our modern era provide opportunities for economic prosperity, some also challenge the relative position of countries in the world order, and influence our social institutions and principles. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">America must remain</span> at the forefront of this new world by maintaining its technological edge, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">and leading the way internationally through science diplomacy and engagement</span>. The Public Diplomacy Role of Science Science by its nature facilitates diplomacy because it strengthens political relationships, embodies powerful ideals, and creates opportunities for all. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The global scientific community embraces principles Americans cherish</span>: <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">transparency</span>, meritocracy, accountability, the objective evaluation of evidence, and broad and frequently <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">democratic participation</span>. Science is inherently democratic, respecting evidence and truth above all. Science is also a common global language, able to bridge deep political and religious divides. Scientists share a common language. Scientific interactions serve to keep open lines of communication and cultural understanding. As <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">scientists everywhere have a common evidentiary external reference system, members of ideologically divergent societies can</span> use the common language of science to <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">cooperatively address</span> both domestic and the increasingly <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">trans-national and global problems</span> confronting humanity in the 21st century. There is a growing recognition that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">science and technology will increasingly drive</span> the successful <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">economies</span> of the 21st century. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Science and technology</span> provide an immeasurable benefit to the U.S. by bringing scientists and students here, especially from developing countries, where they see democracy in action, make friends in the international scientific community, become familiar with American technology, and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">contribute to the U.S. and global economy</span>. <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">For example, in 2005, over 50 percent of physical science and engineering graduate students and postdoctoral researchers trained in the U.S. have been foreign nationals. Moreover, many foreign-born scientists who were educated and have worked in the U.S. eventually progress in their careers to hold influential positions in ministries and institutions both in this country and in their home countries. They also contribute to U.S. scientific and technologic development: According to the National Science Board's 2008 Science and Engineering Indicators, 47 percent of full-time doctoral science and engineering faculty in U.S. research institutions were foreign-born. Finally, some types of science--particularly those that address the grand challenges in science and technology--are inherently international in scope and collaborative by necessity. The ITER Project, an international fusion research and development collaboration, is a product of the thaw in superpower relations between Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and U.S. President Ronald Reagan. This reactor will harness the power of nuclear fusion as a possible new and viable energy source by bringing a star to Earth. ITER serves as a symbol of international scientific cooperation among key scientific leaders in the developed and developing world--Japan, Korea, China, E.U., India, Russia, and United States--representing 70 percent of the world's current population. The recent elimination of funding for FY08 U.S. contributions to the ITER project comes at an inopportune time as the Agreement on the Establishment of the ITER International Fusion Energy Organization for the Joint Implementation of the ITER Project had entered into force only on October 2007</span>. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The elimination of</span>the promised <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">U.S. contribution drew our allies to question our commitment and credibility in international cooperative ventures</span>. More problematically, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it jeopardizes a platform for reaffirming U.S. relations with key states.</span> It should be noted that even at the height of the cold war, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the United States used science diplomacy</span>as a means <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">to</span>maintain communications and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">avoid misunderstanding between</span>the world's two <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">nuclear powers-</span>-the Soviet Union and the United States. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">In a complex multi-polar world, relations are more challenging, the threats perhaps greater, and the need for engagement more paramount.</span> Using Science Diplomacy to Achieve National Security Objectives <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The welfare and stability of countries </span>and regions in many parts of the globe <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">require a concerted effort by the developed world to address the causal factors </span>that render countries fragile and cause states to fail. Countries that are unable to defend their people against starvation, or fail to provide economic opportunity, are susceptible to extremist ideologies, autocratic rule, and abuses of human rights. As well, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the world faces</span> common threats, among them <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">climate change, energy and water shortages, public health emergencies, environmental degradation, poverty, food insecurity, and religious extremism. These threats can undermine the national security of the U</span>nited <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">S</span>tates<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, both directly and indirectly. Many are blind to political boundaries, becoming regional or global threats. The United States has no monopoly on knowledge in a globalizing world and the scientific challenges facing humankind are enormous. </span> <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Addressing these</span> common <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">challenges demands common solutions and necessitates scientific cooperation</span>, <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">common standards, and common goals. We must increasingly harness the power of American ingenuity in science and technology through strong partnerships with the science community in both academia and the private sector, in the U.S. and abroad among our allies, to advance U.S. interests in foreign policy.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Science leadership solves every impact – also key to soft power</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Coletta 9</span> (Damon, PhD in Poli Sci @ Duke, Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard, Assoc Prof of Geopolitics & National Security Policy @ US Air Force Academy, September 2009, http://www.usafa.edu/df/inss/Research%20Papers/2009/09%20Coletta%20Science%20and%20InfluenceINSS(FINAL).pdf.) JPG
<span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">Less appreciated is how </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">scientific progress facilitates diplomatic strategy</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> in the long run, how </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it contributesto</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> Joseph Nye‘s </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">soft power, which translates to staying power in the international arena.One</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> possible </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">escape from the geopolitical forces</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> depicted in Thucydides‘ history for all time </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">is for the current hegemon to maintain its lead in science, conceived as a national program</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> and as an enterprise </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">belonging to all mankind.</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> Beyond the new technologies for projecting military or economic power, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the scientific ethos conditions the hegemon‘s approach to social-political problems. It effects how the leader organizes </span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">itself and other states to </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">address </span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">well-springs </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">of </span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">discontent—material </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">inequity</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">, religious or ethnic oppression</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">, and environmental degradation. The scientific mantle attracts others‘ admiration, which softens</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> or at least complicates </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">other societies‘ resentment of power disparity.</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> Finally, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">for certain global problems—nuclear proliferation, climate change, and financial crisis—the scientific lead ensures robust representation in transnational</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> epistemic </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">communitiesthat</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> can </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">shepherdintergovernmentalnegotiationsontoaconservative</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">, or secular, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">path in terms of preserving international order.</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> In today‘s order, </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">U.S. hegemony is yet in doubt even though military and economic indicators confirm its status as the world‘s lone superpower</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">. America possesses the material wherewithal to maintain its lead in the sciences, but it also desires to bear the standard for freedom and democracy. Unfortunately, patronage of basic science does not automatically flourish with liberal democracy. The free market and the mass public impose demands on science that tend to move research out of the basic and into applied realms. </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Absent the lead in basic discovery, no country can hope to pioneer humanity‘s quest to know Nature. There is a real danger U.S. state</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> and society could permanently </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">confuse</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> sponsorship of </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">technology with patronage of science</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;">, thereby </span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">delivering a self-inflicted blow to U.S. leadership among nations.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Soft power solves extinction – also key to heg</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Nye 8</span> – distinguished service professor and former dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government, PhD in Political Science from Harvard [March 7, 2008, Joseph S. Nye Jr., “Security and Smart Power,” http://abs.sagepub.com/cgi/content/abstract/51/9/1351]
Etzioni is correct that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">a successful policy of security first will require</span> the combi- nation of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">hard and soft power.</span> Combining <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the</span> two <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">instruments</span> so that they <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">reinforce</span> rather than undercut <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">each other</span> is crucial to success. Power is the ability to get the outcomes one wants. In the past,<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it was assumed that military power dominated most issues</span>, but in today’s world, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the contexts of power differ greatly on military, economic, and transnational issues.</span> These latter <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">problems</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">including</span> everything from <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">climate change</span> to <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">pandemics</span> to transnational <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">terrorism, pose</span> some of the greatest <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">challenges</span> we face today, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">and yet few are susceptible to</span> purely <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">militarysolutions</span>. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The only way to grapple</span> with these problems <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">is through cooperation with</span> others, and that requires smart power—a strategy that combines the <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">soft power</span> of attraction with the hard power of coercion. For example ,American and British intelligence agen- cies report that our <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">use of hard power</span> in Iraq <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">without</span> sufficient attention to <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">soft power</span> has <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">increased</span> rather than reduced <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the number of</span> Islamist <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">terrorists</span> throughout the past 5 years. The soft power of attraction will not win over the hard core terrorists but it is essential in winning the hearts and minds of mainstream Muslims,without whose sup- port success will be impossible in the long term. Yet all the polling evidence suggests that American soft power has declined dramatically in the Muslim world. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">There is no simple military solution that will produce the outcomes we want</span>. Etzioni is clear on this and highly critical of the failure to develop a smart power strategy in Iraq. One wishes, however, that he had spent a few more pages developing one for Iran.


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Soft power and tech leadership are the biggest internal to heg in the information age</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Nye 4</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif"; font-size: 16px;"> (Joseph, former Asst Sec of Defense and Dean of JFK School of govt @ Harvard, 8/2/4, http://hbswk.hbs.edu/archive/4290.html) JPG</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The conditions for projecting soft power have transformed</span> dramatically in recent years. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The information revolution</span> and globalization <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">are transforming</span> and shrinking <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the world</span>. At the beginning of the 21st century, those two forces have enhanced American power. But with time, technology will spread to other countries and peoples, and America's relative preeminence will diminish. Even more important, the information revolution is creating virtual communities and networks that cut across national borders. Transnational corporations and nongovernmental actors will play larger roles. Many of those organizations will have soft power of their own as they attract citizens into coalitions that cut across national boundaries. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Political leadership becomes in part a competition for attractiveness, legitimacy, and credibility. The ability to share information</span>—and to be believed—<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">becomes an important source of attraction and power. </span>This political game in <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">a global information age suggests that the relative role of soft power to hard power will likely increase</span>. The most likely gainers in an information age will have: multiple channels of communication that help to frame issues, cultural customs and ideas that are close to prevailing global norms, and credibility that is enhanced by values and policies. Soft power resources are difficult to control. Many of its crucial resources are outside the control of governments, and their effects depend heavily on acceptance by the receiving audiences. Moreover, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">soft power resources often work indirectly by shaping the environment for policy, and sometimes take years to produce the desired outcomes. </span>Of course, these differences are matters of degree<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">. Not all hard power actions promptly produce desired outcomes</span>—witness the length and ultimate failure of the Vietnam War, or the fact that economic sanctions have historically failed to produce their intended outcomes in more than half the cases where they were tried. But generally, soft power resources are slower, more diffuse, and more cumbersome to wield than hard power resources. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Information is power, and today a much larger part of the world's population has access to that power. </span>Technological advances have led to dramatic reduction in the cost of processing and transmitting information. The result is an explosion of information, and that has produced a "paradox of plenty." When people are overwhelmed with the volume of information confronting them, it is hard to know what to focus on. Attention rather than information becomes the scarce resource, and those who can distinguish valuable information from background clutter gain power. Editors and cue-givers become more in demand. Among editors and cue-givers, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">credibility is an important source of soft power. Politics has become a contest of competitive credibility</span>. The world of traditional power politics is typically about whose military or economy wins. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Politics in an information age may ultimately be about whose story wins. Reputation has always mattered in political leadership, but the role of credibility becomes an even more important power resource because</span> of the paradox of plenty. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Information</span> that appears to be propaganda may not only be scorned; it may also turn out to be counterproductive if it undermines a reputation for credibility. Under the new conditions more than ever, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the soft sell may prove more effective than a hard sell. </span>Finally, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">power in an information age willcome</span> not just <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">from</span> strong hard power, but from strong <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">sharing. In an information age</span>, such sharing not only enhances the ability of others to cooperate with us but also increases their inclination to do so. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">As we share with others, we develop common outlooks and approaches</span> that improve our ability to deal with the new challenges. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Power flows from that attraction</span>. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Dismissing the importance of attraction</span> as merely ephemeral popularity <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">ignores</span> key insights from <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">new theories of leadership as well as the</span> new realities of the <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">information age. </span>Conclusion <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Soft power has always been a key element of leadership. The power to attract</span>—to get others to want what you want, to frame the issues, to set the agenda—<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">has its roots in thousands of years of human experience</span>. Skillful leaders have always understood that attractiveness stems from credibility and legitimacy. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Power has never flowed solely from the barrel of a gun</span>; even the most brutal dictators have relied on attraction as well as fear. When the United States paid insufficient attention to issues of legitimacy and credibility in the way it went about its policy on Iraq, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">polls showed a dramatic drop in American soft power.</span> That did not prevent the United States from entering Iraq, but <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it meant that it had to pay higher costs in the blood and treasure than would otherwise have been the case</span>. Similarly, if Yasser Arafat had chosen the soft power model of Gandhi or Martin Luther King rather than the hard power of terrorism, he could have attracted moderate Israelis and would have a Palestinian state by now. I said at the start that leadership is inextricably intertwined with power. Leaders have to make crucial choices about the types of power that they use. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Woe be to</span> followers of those <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">leaders who ignore or devalue the significance of soft power.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Heg de-escalates conflicts and prevents great power wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thayer 6</span> (Bradley A. Thayer, November/December, 2006 “In Defense of Primacy,” NATIONAL INTEREST Issue 86)
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">peace and stability have been great benefits of</span> an era where there was <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">a dominant power</span>--<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Rome, Britain or </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">theUnited States today</span>. Scholars and statesmen have long recognized the irenic effect of power on the anarchic world of international politics. Everything we think of when we consider the current international order--free trade, <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">a robust monetary regime, increasing</span> respect for human rights, growing democratization--is directly linked to U.S. power. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Retrenchment proponents</span> seem to <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">think</span> that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the current system can be maintained without</span> the current amount of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">U.S. power</span> behind it. In that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">they are dead wrong</span> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">and need to be reminded of one of history's most significant lessons</span>: <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Appalling things happen when international orders collapse</span>. The Dark Ages followed Rome's collapse. Hitler succeeded the order established at Versailles. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">Without U.S. power, the liberal order created by the United States will end just as assuredly.</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> As country and western great Ral Donner sang: "You don't know what you've got (until you lose it)." Consequently, it is important to note what those good things are. In addition to ensuring the security of the United States and its allies, </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">American primacy</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> within the international system </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">causes many positive outcomes</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> for Washington and the world. </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">The first has been a more peaceful world</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">. During the Cold War, </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">U.S. leadership reduced friction among many states</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> that were historical antagonists, most notably France and West Germany. Today,</span> <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">American primacy helps keep a number of complicated relationships aligned</span>--between Greece and Turkey, Israel and Egypt, South Korea and Japan, India and Pakistan, Indonesia and Australia. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">This is not to say it fulfills Woodrow Wilson's vision of ending all war</span>. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Wars still occur</span> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">where Washington's interests are not seriously threatened, such as in Darfur</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">but a Pax Americana does reduce war's likelihood, particularly</span> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">war's worst form</span>: <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">great power wars. </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">Second</span><span style="font-size: 13.33px;">, American power gives the United States the ability to spread</span> democracy <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">and other elements of its ideology of </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">liberalism</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">: Doing so is a source of much good for the countries concerned as well as the United States because, as John Owen noted on these pages in the Spring 2006 issue, liberal democracies are more likely to align with the United States and be sympathetic to the American worldview.( n3) So, </span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 13.33px;">spreading democracy helps maintain U.S. primacy</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">. In addition</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">once states are governed democratically, the likelihood of any type of conflict is significantly reduced.</span> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">This is not because democracies do not have clashing interests. Indeed they do. Rather, it is</span> because they are more open, more transparent and more likely to want to resolve things amicably in concurrence with U.S. leadership. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">And so, in general, democratic states are good for their citizens as well as for advancing the interests of the United States. Critics have faulted the Bush Administration for attempting to spread democracy in the Middle East, labeling such aft effort a modern form of tilting at windmills. It is the obligation of Bush's critics to explain why :democracy is good enough for Western states but not for the rest, and, one gathers from the argument, should not even be attempted. Of course, whether democracy in the Middle East will have a peaceful or stabilizing influence on America's interests in the short run is open to question. Perhaps democratic Arab states would be more opposed to Israel, but nonetheless, their people would be better off. The United States has brought democracy to Afghanistan, where 8.5 million Afghans, 40 percent of them women, voted in a critical October 2004 election, even though remnant Taliban forces threatened them. The first free elections were held in Iraq in January 2005. It was the military power of the United States that put Iraq on the path to democracy. Washington fostered democratic governments in Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Caucasus. Now even the Middle East is increasingly democratic. They may not yet look like Western-style democracies, but democratic progress has been made in Algeria, Morocco, Lebanon, Iraq, Kuwait, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt</span>. By all accounts, the march of democracy has been impressive. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Third</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">along with the growth in the number of democratic states around the world has been the growth of the global economy.</span> <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">With its allies,</span> <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the United States has labored to create an economically liberal</span> worldwide <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">network characterized by free trade</span> and commerce, respect for international property rights, and mobility of capital and labor markets. The <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">economic stability and prosperity</span> that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">stems from this economic order</span> is a global public good from which all states benefit, particularly the poorest states in the Third World. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The United States created this network not out of altruism but for the benefit and the economic well-being of America. This economic order forces American industries to be competitive, maximizes efficiencies and growth, and benefits defense as well because the size of the economy makes the defense burden manageable.</span> Economic spin-offs foster the development of military technology, helping to ensure military prowess. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Perhaps the greatest testament to the benefits of the economic network comes from Deepak Lal, a former Indian foreign service diplomat and researcher at the World Bank, who started his career confident in the socialist ideology of post-independence India. Abandoning the positions of his youth, Lal now recognizes that the only way to bring relief to desperately poor countries of the Third World is through the adoption of free market economic policies and globalization, which are facilitated through American primacy.( n4) As a witness to the failed alternative economic systems, Lal is one of the strongest academic proponents of American primacy due to the economic prosperity it provides. Fourth and finally, the United States, in seeking primacy, has been willing to use its power not only to advance its interests but to promote the welfare of people all over the globe.</span> The United States is the earth's leading source of positive externalities for the world. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">The U.S. military has participated in over fifty operations since the end of the Cold War--and most of those missions have been humanitarian in nature. Indeed,</span> <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the U.S. military is the earth's "911 force"</span>--it serves, de facto, as <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the world's police, the global paramedic and the planet's fire department</span>. Whenever there is a natural disaster, earthquake, flood, drought, volcanic eruption, typhoon or tsunami, the United States assists the countries in need. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">On the day after Christmas in 2004, a tremendous earthquake and tsunami occurred in the Indian Ocean near Sumatra, killing some 300,000 people. The United States was the first to respond with aid. Washington followed up with a large contribution of aid and deployed the U.S. military to South and Southeast Asia for many months to help with the aftermath of the disaster. About 20,000 U.S. soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines responded by providing water, food, medical aid, disease treatment and prevention as well as forensic assistance to help identify the bodies of those killed. Only the U.S. military could have accomplished this Herculean effort.</span> <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">No other force possesses the communications capabilities or global logistical reach of the U.S. military</span>. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">In fact, UN peacekeeping operations depend on the United States to supply UN forces.</span> American generosity has done more to help the United States fight the War on Terror than almost any other measure. <span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Before the tsunami, 80 percent of Indonesian public opinion was opposed to the United States; after it, 80 percent had a favorable opinion of America. Two years after the disaster, and in poll after poll, Indonesians still have overwhelmingly positive views of the United States. In October 2005, an enormous earthquake struck Kashmir, killing about 74 000 people and leaving three million homeless. The U.S. military responded immediately, diverting helicopters fighting the War on Terror in nearby Afghanistan to bring relief as soon as possible To help those in need, the United States also provided financial aid to Pakistan; and, as one might expect from those witnessing the munificence of the United States, it left a lasting impression about America. For the first time since 9/11, polls of Pakistani opinion have found that more people are favorable toward the United States than unfavorable, while support for Al-Qaeda dropped to its lowest level. Whether in Indonesia or Kashmir, the money was well-spent because it helped people in the wake of disasters, but it also had a real impact on the War on Terror. When people in the Muslim world witness the U.S. military conducting a humanitarian mission, there is a clearly positive impact on Muslim opinion of the United States.</span> As the War on Terror is a war of ideas and opinion as much as military action, for the United States humanitarian missions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Collapse causes multiple nuclear wars</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Arbatov 7</span> (Alexei, corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs, “Is a New Cold War Imminent,” Russia in Global Affairs, No. 2, July-September 2007, http://eng.globalaffairs.ru/numbers/20/1130.html)
However, the low probability of a new Cold War and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the collapse of American unipolarity</span>(as a political doctrine, if not in reality) <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">cannot be a cause for complacency. Multipolarity,</span> existing objectively at various levels and interdependently, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">holds many difficulties and threats. </span>For example, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">if the Russia-NATO confrontation persists, it can do much damage to both parties and international security</span>. Or, alternatively, if Kosovo secedes from Serbia, this may provoke similar processes in Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Transdniestria, and involve Russia in armed conflicts with Georgia and Moldova, two countries that are supported by NATO. Another flash point involves Ukraine. In the event of Kiev’s sudden admission into the North Atlantic Alliance (recently sanctioned by the U.S. Congress), such a move may divide Ukraine and provoke mass disorders there, thus making it difficult for Russia and the West to refrain from interfering. Meanwhile, U.S. plans to build a missile defense system in Central and Eastern Europe may cause Russia to withdraw from the INF Treaty and resume programs for producing intermediate-range missiles. Washington may respond by deploying similar missiles in Europe, which would dramatically increase the vulnerability of Russia’s strategic forces and their control and warning systems. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">This could make the stage for nuclear confrontation even tenser. Other “centers of power” would immediately derive benefit from the growing Russia-West standoff</span>, using it in their own interests. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">China would receive an opportunity to occupy even more advantageous positions in its economic and political relations with Russia</span>, the U.S. and Japan, and would consolidate its influence in Central and South Asia and the Persian Gulf region. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">India, Pakistan, member countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and some exalted regimes in Latin America would hardly miss their chance, either. A multipolar world</span>that is not moving toward nuclear disarmament <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">is a world of an expanding Nuclear Club</span>. While Russia and the West continue to argue with each other, states that are capable of developing nuclear weapons of their own will jump at the opportunity.<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The probability of nuclear weapons being used in a regional conflict will increase significantly. International Islamic extremism and terrorism will increase dramatically</span>; <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">this threat represents the reverse side of globalization. The situation in Afghanistan, Central Asia, the Middle East, and North and East Africa will further destabilize. The wave of militant separatism, trans-border crime and terrorism will also infiltrate Western Europe, Russia, the U.S., and other countries. The surviving disarmament treaties</span>(the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Conventional Armed Forces in Europe Treaty, and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty) <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">will collapse.</span> In a worst-case scenario, there is the chance that an adventuresome regime will initiate a missile launch against territories or space satellites of one or several great powers with a view to triggering an exchange of nuclear strikes between them. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Another high probability is the threat of a terrorist act with </span>**__the use of__** <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">a nuclear device in one or several major capitals of the world.</span>


1AC Adv 2
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Webb is key to astrophysics and locating exoplanets – other telescopes don’t have the tech – NASA reforms solve any inefficiency</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Mountain 11</span> (Matt, Director of the Space Telescope Science Institute & Prof of Physics @ Johns Hopkins and Oxford, Space Times Vol. 50 Issue 3, May/June 2011, https://blogs.stsci.edu/newsletter/2011/02/07/the-james-webb-space-telescope%E2%80%94it%E2%80%99s-complicated-but-so-is-leadership/) JPG
The recent release of NASA’s Independent Comprehensive Review Panel report (<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the Casani report) on the</span> //James Webb Space Telescope// (<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST) has</span> understandably <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">caused consternation</span> within the community, and some of our colleagues’ sound-bite quotes decrying the state of space astrophysics were quickly circulated in the press and on the Internet. As the dust has settled, it’s important to step back for a moment to reflect on why we want to build such an audacious telescope. The words of the President of the AAS, Debra Elmegreen, in a recent article in //Space News// bear repeating, “<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">We all need to recognize that JWST and the initial $5 billion investment cannot</span> be allowed to <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">fail</span>, since so much of future astrophysics research was built upon the foundation it was to provide—<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">as the Casani report concludes, ‘JWST will play a key role in understanding</span> //how and when the first// <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">galaxies</span> //were born, characterizing the planets that are now being discovered around nearby stars, in providing further insights into the nature of the dark energy and dark matter, and into how stars and planetary systems are born.// <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">There is no easy path to understanding such complex scientific questions</span>//. To do these things at the level needed to advance scientific understanding requires a complex telescope with truly unique capabilities.// <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST is that telescope.’</span>//”// (//Space News//, “American Leadership in Astrophysics at Risk,” 22 November 2010.) I came to the Space Telescope Science Institute because of //JWST//. Even though I helped to build two large ground-based telescopes, I recognized that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">there are astronomical observations we struggle to do from the ground.</span> For example, even with 8-m or 10-m telescopes <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it is next to impossible to take the spectra of high-redshift galaxies</span> to understand the star-formation processes a billion years after the Big Bang. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The same is true when trying to measure</span> distant (//z// > 1) supernovae to try and unravel <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Dark Energy</span>—it’s a really tough measurement from the ground. As is mapping dust emission to uncover telltale trails of young planetary systems; this is proving to be difficult even in the closest systems. My colleagues who built the //Hubble// and //Spitzer// space telescopes similarly realized that to take the next steps in exploring the Universe would require a bigger space telescope. There is no mystery why: observational astrophysics is a photon-limited field, and once you have near perfect detectors (as we do), our only free parameters are either to spend millions of seconds on every observation or to increase the aperture of the telescope. A large-aperture space telescope combined with the low backgrounds found at L2 was the basic design rationale for //JWST//, and the broad science this telescope enables was compelling enough to make it the highest-priority large space mission of the 2000 Decadal Survey on Astronomy and Astrophysics. A decade later, even as our scientific expectations have evolved since the original science case was written—<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">as the Casani report</span> itself <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">notes—JWST remains the most scientifically powerful telescope NASA, ESA and CSA will ever have built</span>: “//the next Great Observatory to replace the Hubble Space Telescope//.” A decade ago, we were just coming to terms with the possibility of Dark Energy. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">With JWST, we will</span> reach back to the beginning of time to detect very early supernovae and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">break the</span> possible <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">degeneracy between supernova evolution and Dark Energy</span>. A decade ago, we had not yet begun to measure the constituents of exoplanetary atmospheres with transit spectroscopy using //Hubble// and //Spitzer//. With //JWST//, we will use the same technique; as the recent 2010 Decadal Survey (New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics; NWNH) recognized, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST will be “a premier tool for studying planets orbiting stars that are smaller and cooler than the Sun.” The goal of detecting liquid water on a planet close to the size of Earth, in the habitable zone </span>around another star, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">may be within the reach of JWST. </span> As NWNH notes, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">with JWST “the era of study of … cousins of the Earth … is underway.” </span>And this does not include the great unknown territory that will be uncovered when we fly a telescope 100 times more sensitive than //Hubble//, almost 1000 times more sensitive than //Spitzer//. Imagine the creative energy unleashed by the roughly 8,000 astronomers who currently use //Hubble// and //Spitzer//. According to a White Paper submitted to NWNH (Sembach et al. 2009), over the period 2005–2007, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the Spitzer and Hubble programs alone generated over $130M in General Observer grants</span>, and this community published over 3,000 papers based on //Hubble// and //Spitzer// data. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST is the next Hubble, the next Spitzer</span>—that’s why we are building this ambitious telescope. It is true //JWST// has confronted us with some seriously tough technological challenges: how to build a telescope 65% the size of the W. M. Keck telescope, but reduce its mass by almost two orders of magnitude compared to a ground-based telescope; how to find a way to package it so it could be launched on an Ariane 5 rocket and deployed a million miles from Earth; and how to operate it at 40K. It’s been very hard to manufacture 18 beryllium mirrors that can hold their figures to better than 20 nanometers at cryogenic temperatures, or build a deployable gossamer-like sunshield the size of a tennis court. But we have. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The Casani report recognized</span> these <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">technological achievements: “a substantial amount of cutting-edge hardware has been delivered and is now being tested</span> //as part of the first steps toward the overall integration and test of the Observatory.//” <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">We are not looking at a trail of technological failures or wasted resources.</span> In fact, what <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">we see</span> is <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">a series of “solved problems”</span> on the complex and difficult journey to build the most powerful space telescope launched by any space-faring nation. A few weeks ago, //The New York Times// ran an obituary of Joseph Gavin, who designed and built the lunar lander. It drew me back to an earlier era, where doing difficult things in space defined a nation and a generation. //The Times// quoted Gavin as saying, “<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">If a project is truly innovative, you cannot possibly know its exact cost and exact schedule at the beginning</span>//… and if you do know the exact cost and the exact schedule, chances are that the technology is obsolete.//” <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The Casani report echoed these words: “from 2002 to 2008, JWST struggled with several cutting-edge developments</span>//. These developments took longer and consequently cost more than forecast.//” Let us remind ourselves <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it was very hard to build the Hubble Space Telescope. But we did</span>. Today //Hubble// supports thousands of astronomers worldwide, and continues to inspire the public and a new generation of school children with its images of breathtaking beauty. Now we are again struggling with the consequences of doing something no one has done before. Those of us who have built machines like large telescopes have experienced the myriad ways that unpredictable problems emerge from new technologies, challenging engineering, and the complicated logistics of putting complex things together.The //JWST// project needs to do better, and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the Casani report articulates what needs to be changed. NASA and the Project Team have committed to learning these lessons</span> and regaining the trust of both those who have advocated for //JWST// and the tax-payers who have funded //JWST//. But I don’t see an astronomers’ hurricane, leaving devastation in its wake. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">I see committed engineers and scientists struggling to work at the edge of the impossible</span>. I see a community willing to take risks on behalf of science, so we can extend the scientific frontiers and do things no one has done before. I see that building a state-of-the-art machine for science is in the end an inherently complex and tremendously imperfect human endeavor. The cover letter to the Casani report on why //JWST// should go forward finished on a famous quote from the dawn of the Space Age//,// “//…we do these things and others, not because they easy, but because they are hard.//” To finish President John F. Kennedy’s quote: “//… because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills; because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone.//” In the end, someone has to provide “the next //Hubble//” to the next generation. If not us, then who?



<span style="font-size: 16px;">JWST is critical to astrophysics</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Illingworth 11</span> (Garth, PhD in astronomy & astrophysics @ Australia National U, Professor of Astronomy and Astrophysics Astronomer, UC Observatories/Lick Observatory, 7/21/11, http://science.nasa.gov/media/medialibrary/2011/07/22/7_21_2011-Illingworth_JWST-Comments_for_APS.pdf.) JPG
I think its most effective to fight one battle at a time, and it is clear that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the long term future is either (1) a budget large enough for major missions or (2) a budget that does little that is interesting. The first</span> absolutely <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">requiresJWST</span> to survive, and be completed, so that there is a post-JWST funding wedge in our future. The second will be there for us unless we all push very strongly and consistently for JWST. There is no doubt a price to pay to complete JWST, but <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">NASA top management have repeatedly stated that Astrophysics will not be required to pay for all of any additional funds that are needed for the JWST</span> replan and a 2018 launch. "Who pays" is clearly a "discussion in progress" within the agency, but I think Ed made a very good point. SMD has routinely contributed (and lost funding) when other parts of the agency needed funds at critical times in the past decade. Other divisions in SMD have also contributed when major programs within SMD needed extra resources. Thus there is a tradition of shared pain. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST is an agency responsibility. It will be,</span> like Hubble, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">a very clear demonstration of NASA doing what no others can do.</span> The added funds to finish <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">JWST</span> should come from a variety of places in the agency and not just from SMD. It <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">is</span> both fair to do so, and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">in the agency's best interest</span>. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Astrophysics will share in the pain in the short term, but be much better positioned for a long-term future if JWST goes ahead for a 2018 launch</span>. I have stated the options bluntly but I truly believe these to be the case given the current political situation. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">We are at a make-or-break point for Space Astrophysics and the key factor is whether JWST continues to launch or whether it does not.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Astronomy and astrophysics solves warming</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Blandford et. al. 10</span> – a Pehong and Adele Chen Professor of Physics and director of the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology at Stanford University [Roger D. Blandford, Chair, Committee for a Decadal Survey of Astronomy and Astrophysics National Research Council, New Worlds, New Horizons in Astronomy and Astrophysics, 2010, ISBN: 9780309158008, pg. 114-5]
Astronomy Addresses the Challenges of the 21st Century The examples above show that astronomy contributes in unexpected ways to national agendas that extend far beyond the study of the universe itself. In science and technology today, two of the most important challenges are the impact of global climate change and the search for clean, sustainable, carbon-free sources of energy. In his address to the National Academy of Sciences in April 2009, President Obama issued a call to action, exhorting the United States to muster its collective expertise and energy to assume international leadership in addressing these challenges. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Astronomy has already played a major role in our understanding of global climate and climate change. The first understanding of the</span> planet-wide <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">greenhouse effect came from studies of Venus</span>, whose surface temperature exceeds 800 degrees Fahrenheit because of a thick atmosphere of carbon dioxide. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The first understanding of rapid global climate change came from computer models of the effects of nuclear war, and of catastrophic asteroid impacts that led to a mass extinction 60 million years ago</span>. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">One of the best ways to investigate the complex problem of how Earth’s climate responds to stress is to study the geological record of changes induced by periodic changes in Earth’s orbit over the past few million years</span>. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">A better understanding of the Sun is also critical to modeling and understanding climate change</span>. Over the past few decades, as computational power has increased, our fundamental understanding of how the Sun works has been improving dramatically. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">One of the most ambitious efforts to solve the nation’s energy problems involves the development of controlled nuclear fusion. Nuclear fusion was first understood early in the last century by astronomers seeking the energy source of the stars, and since then there has been a close and fertile collaboration between astrophysicists trying to understand the behavior of plasmas in astrophysical systems and fusion researchers working to control plasmas in the laboratory</span>; indeed, the U.S. fusion program was started by the same astronomer, Lyman Spitzer, Jr., who first proposed the concept of a space telescope. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Astronomers can bring to these initiatives their relevant experience, capabilities, and expertise in the atmospheres of planets and stars</span>, radiative transfer, fluid dynamics, nuclear physics, plasma physics, electronics, detectors, remote sensing, numerical simulation of complex systems, and data handling, as well as one of their most important skills— the ability to draw reliable inferences from incomplete observations as opposed to controlled experiments. CONCLUSION: <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Astronomy is a pure science, driven by human curiosity</span>. Nevertheless, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the techniques and models developed in the process of conducting astronomical research often have broad utility. Advances in under­ standing of the Sun and of the climates of other planets help illuminate critical issues and inform thinking about climate change here on Earth. The impact of recent discoveries and the many new opportunities that they have created have led to great interest in astronomy</span>.


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Warming is real & anthropogenic – causes extinction and outweighs every impactDeibel 7</span> (Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
Finally, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">there is one major existential threat</span>to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">. It is</span>the threat of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">globalwarming</span>to the stability of the climate upon which all earthly life depends. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Scientistsworldwide havebeenobserving</span>the gathering of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">this threat for three decades now</span>, and what was once a mere possibility has passed through probability to near certainty. Indeed <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">not one of more than 900 articles on climate change</span> published in refereed scientific journals from 1993 to 2003 <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">doubted</span>that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">anthropogenic warming is occurring</span>. “In legitimate scientific circles,” writes Elizabeth Kolbert, “it is virtually impossible to find evidence of disagreement over the fundamentals of global warming.” <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Evidence from a vast international scientific monitoring effort accumulates</span> almost weekly, as this sample of newspaper reports <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">shows: an international panel predicts</span>“brutal <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">droughts</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">floodsand</span>violent <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">storms</span>across the planet over the next century”; climate change could “literally alter ocean currents, wipe away huge portions of Alpine Snowcaps and aid the spread of cholera and malaria”; “glaciers in the Antarctic and in Greenland are melting much faster than expected, and…worldwide, plants are blooming several days earlier than a decade ago”; “rising sea temperatures have been accompanied by a significant global increase in the most destructive hurricanes”; “NASA scientists have concluded from direct temperature measurements that 2005 was the hottest year on record, with 1998 a close second”; “<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Earth’s warming climate is estimated to contribute to more than 150,000 deaths and 5 million illnesses each year</span>” as disease spreads; “widespread bleaching from Texas to Trinidad…killed broad swaths of corals” due to a 2-degree rise in sea temperatures. “The world is slowly disintegrating,” concluded Inuit hunter Noah Metuq, who lives 30 miles from the Arctic Circle. “They call it climate change…but we just call it breaking up.” From the founding of the first cities some 6,000 years ago until the beginning of the industrial revolution, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere remained relatively constant at about 280 parts per million (ppm). At present they are accelerating toward 400 ppm, and by 2050 they will reach 500 ppm, about double pre-industrial levels. Unfortunately, atmospheric CO2 lasts about a century, so there is no way immediately to reduce levels, only to slow their increase, we are thus in for significant global warming; <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the only debate is how much and how serious the effects will be.</span> As the newspaper stories quoted above show, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">we are already experiencing the effects of 1-2 degree warming in</span> more violent <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">storms</span>, spread of <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">disease</span>, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">mass die offs of plants and animals, species extinction, and</span>threatened <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">inundationof low-</span>lying <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">countries</span> like the Pacific nation of Kiribati and the Netherlands at a warming of 5 degrees or less the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets could disintegrate, leading to a sea level of rise of 20 feet that would cover North Carolina’s outer banks, swamp the southern third of Florida, and inundate Manhattan up to the middle of Greenwich Village. Another catastrophic effect would be the collapse of the Atlantic thermohaline circulation that keeps the winter weather in Europe far warmer than its latitude would otherwise allow. Economist William Cline once estimated the damage to the United States alone from moderate levels of warming at 1-6 percent of GDP annually; severe warming could cost 13-26 percent of GDP. But <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the most frightening scenario is runaway greenhouse warming, based on positive feedback</span> from the buildup of water vapor in the atmosphere that is both caused by and causes hotter surface temperatures. Past ice age transitions, associated with only 5-10 degree changes in average global temperatures, took place in just decades, even though no one was then pouring ever-increasing amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. Faced with this specter, the best one can conclude is that “<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">humankind’s</span>continuing <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">enhancement of the</span> natural <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">greenhouse effect is akin to playing Russian roulette with the earth’s climate and humanity’s life</span>support system. At worst, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">saysphysicsprofessorMarty Hoffert of New York University</span>, “we’re just going to burn everything up; we’re going to heat the atmosphere to the temperature it was in the Cretaceous when there were crocodiles at the poles, and then <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">everything will collapse.”</span> During the Cold War, astronomer Carl Sagan popularized a theory of nuclear winter to describe how a thermonuclear war between the Untied States and the Soviet Union would not only destroy both countries but possibly end life on this planet<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">. Global warming is the</span> post-Cold War era’s <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">equivalent of nuclear winter</span>at least as serious <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">and considerably better supported scientifically.</span>Over the long run <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it puts dangers from terrorism and traditional military challenges to shame. It is a threat</span>not only to the security and prosperity to the United States, but potentially <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">to the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Webb is the only option for discovering HABITABLE exoplanets – causes future exploration</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Spotts 11</span><span style="font-family: "Times","serif";"> (Pete, staff writer @ Christian Science Monitor, 6/17/11, http://www.csmonitor.com/Science/2011/0617/Space-exploration-Will-budget-cuts-stall-search-for-other-Earths) JPG</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Never has</span> the young field <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">of "exoplanet" research been so ripe with promise,</span> its practitioners say, with dozens of new planet candidates emerging every year. But now, with scientists ready to take the next step and discern whether any of these planets might have the potential conditions for life, the rug has been pulled from beneath them. Two orbiting observatories seen as crucial to taking the measure of exoplanets and their atmospheres in detail have been scrapped. Budget cuts are one reason, but infighting within the scientific community made those cuts easier, according to several accounts. It leaves exoplanet hunters seeking creative solutions, such as retrofitting one space telescope with a special shade or sending up shoebox-size mini-observatories to nibble away at the job. But some in the field can't help but feel concern that their <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">dreams of one day being heralded as discoverers of new solar systems that later generations will explore may be slipping away. </span>"We really want to be the first generation to find planets" like Earth, says Sara Seager, an astrophysicist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Cambridge. "Now, it's not clear to me anymore that it will." Part of the frustration is born of the field's unbridled success in the face of initial, deep skepticism. When Wesley Traub prepared to head for his first exoplanet meeting in Colorado in 1990 – five years before the first confirmed exoplanet discovery – "I didn't tell anybody I was going because I was embarrassed," he says. "This was something you didn't talk about then" in the company of other astrophysicists. Now he is the chief scientist for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's exoplanet exploration program, and with each passing month, fresh detections from dozens of research teams point to a Milky Way galaxy teeming with solar systems utterly unlike our own. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">More discoveries are in the pipeline.</span> NASA's Kepler mission has added at least 1,235 planet candidates to the list for confirmation. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">While detecting new planets is important</span>, astronomers add, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the field has reached a point where it must begin to study the atmospheres of exo-planets and comb them for gases that signify the presence of life</span>. The study of stars was at a similar point a century ago, notes Geoff Marcy, a pioneer of planet-hunting at the University of California, Berkeley. At first, scientists simply fit stars into categories based on their color and intrinsic brightness. But eventually they began to use starlight to understand a star's chemical compositions, which gave clues about their stage of evolution. Similarly, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">it's now time to begin to understand the nature of exoplanets using the same tools – chemical fingerprints captured in light</span> as it passes through or is reflected from an exoplanet's atmosphere. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Without these measurements, "studying the constitution of stars or planets is virtually impossible,"</span> Dr. Marcy says. To get these measurements, however, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">planet hunters were relying on the two observatories no longer on the books. </span>One project, the Space Interferometer Mission, was supposed to launch in 2005. But budget cuts forced the date to slip. The project, which was included in two surveys intended to set NASA's priorities for the coming decade, eventually disappeared from the 2010 Decadal Survey as the community faced even tighter budget constraints. The fact that $600 million was spent to develop a project that never came to fruition is "the most embarrassing, humiliating thing I've seen in my life," says NASA's Dr. Traub. The second major loss is the Terrestrial Planet Finder (TPF), whose demise can be traced to flip-flops at NASA over the observatory's design, say Marcy and others. It, too, had a high priority in previous decadal surveys and was expected to be launched as early as 2015. But internal bickering among the planet-hunting community over which design to support prompted its removal from NASA's to-do list for this decade. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Faced with the collapse of two keystone projects, researchers are becoming more inventive. </span>For instance, one space telescope that remains on the books, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the James Webb Space Telescope, </span>in principle<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">could perform spectra-gathering duties on nearby exoplanets</span> – something no one envisioned at the time the telescope was planned, says Matt Mountain, director of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">If less than 10 percent of the telescope's observing time is dedicated to exoplanets</span> – and if the project adds a "star shade" flying in formation with the telescope to block light from an exoplanet's host star – studies suggest that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the telescope could detect and characterize at least five Earth-like planets around nearby stars</span> during five years of observing. "This looks remarkably like what TPF-C would do," Dr. Mountain says, referring to one of the designs for the TPF.


<span style="font-size: 16px;">And that sparks a new era of space colonization.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Harrold, 08</span> – staff writer for the Gazette [July 18, 2008, Max Harrold, The Gazette, “Earth's twin coming into view; Scientists believe habitable planet will be spotted soon,” Lexis]
With less fanfare than H.G. Wells's science fiction, but no less of the sweep, scientists in Montreal this week are conjuring new Earths. This time, it's for real. Spotting Earth's twin is tantalizingly close - perhaps a year or two away - a conference of the world's top space scientists was told yesterday. "<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Everywhere we can look for planets we are finding them</span>," said Sara Seager, a Torontonian who teaches physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Everyone wants to meet an alien," Seager said, "but (extraterrestrial) life might just be bacteria." <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Of the 300 or so known exoplanets, as planets in other star systems are called, most are too close to their suns and too hot to sustain life. Some astronomers have claimed there are about 45 Earth-like planets. They might have water vapour in their atmospheres</span>, Seager added. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">But until better optical techniques are devised, the Earth-like worlds can't be hailed as certainties</span>, she said. "It certainly will happen in my lifetime," said Seager, who is about 40. "I intend to live a very long life." <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Finding an Earth twin, or several, would revolutionize how humans see themselves</span>, she said. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">It might</span> also <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">begin a new era of space colonization</span>. People "would probably want to send a probe there," she said. The hitch? "The closest one is probably 200 years away" using existing means of space travel. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">The distance isn't stopping scientists around the globe from engaging in a race to nail an Earth-like sighting</span>, however. The biggest challenge is separating the intense light of a star to isolate a planet orbiting the star. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Some planets have been sighted next to stars, but they are often so large and dense they would not support life</span>. Seager is excited about other scenarios. If not Earth's twin, how about a cousin? she asked. Some planets spotted close to their suns might be habitable since the suns are much smaller and cooler. Some are several times larger than Earth, but with what might be a rocky composition, like Earth, and the chemicals in their atmospheres to sustain life. Seager said <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">existing space telescopes like</span> the Hubble, and <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the J</span>ames <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">W</span>ebb <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">S</span>pace <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">T</span>elescope, to be launched in 2013, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">could be the ones to spot another oasis in space. Canada's $130-million contribution to the Webb includes providing its guidance system</span>. A full-scale, 5.4-tonne model of the telescope is on view until tomorrow at the Old Port. The 37th International Scientific Assembly, for 2,000 leading space scientists, wraps up Sunday. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Seager said looking for life on other planets is no longer considered futile, or blasphemous. "Even the Vatican's astronomer has said it's okay to look."</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space colonization is the ONLY way to save the human race from extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Fox News 10</span> [Fox News, “Abandon Earth or Face Extinction, Stephen Hawking Warns – Again”, http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2010/08/09/abandon-earth-face-extinction-warns-stephen-hawking/, 6/9/10]
<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">It's time to abandon Earth, warned the world's most famous theoretical physicist</span>. In an interview with website Big Think, Stephen Hawking warned that the long-term future of the planet is in outer space. "<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">It will be difficult enough to avoid disaster on planet Earth in the next hundred years, let alone the next thousand, or million. The human race shouldn't have all its eggs in one basket, or on one planet,</span>" he said. "<span style="font-size: 13.33px;">I see great dangers for the human race," Hawking said</span>. "There have been a number of times in the past when its survival has been a question of touch and go. The Cuban missile crisis in 1963 was one of these. The frequency of such occasions is likely to increase in the future." "But I'm an optimist. If we can avoid disaster for the next two centuries, our species should be safe, as we spread into space," he said. That said, getting to another planet will prove a challenge, not to mention colonizing it for humanity. University of Michigan astrophysicist Katherine Freese told Big Think that "the nearest star [to Earth] is Proxima Centauri which is 4.2 light years away. That means that, if you were traveling at the speed of light the whole time, it would take 4.2 years to get there" -- or about 50,000 years using current rocket science. Still, we need to act and act fast, Hawking stated. "It will be difficult enough to avoid disaster in the next hundred years, let alone the next thousand or million. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Our only chance of long-term survival is not to remain inward looking on planet Earth but to spread out into space. We have made remarkable progress in the last hundred years. But if we want to continue beyond the next hundred years, our future is in space." This is not the first time Hawking has warned of impending planetary doom</span>. In 2006, the physicist warned that Earth was at an ever increasing risk of being wiped out. And lately, Hawking has become quite outspoken. In April, he warned of the dangers of communicating with aliens, telling the Discovery Channel that extra-terrestrials are almost certain to exist -- and humanity should avoid contact with them at all cost. “To my mathematical brain, the numbers alone make thinking about aliens perfectly rational,” he said. “The real challenge is to work out what aliens might actually be like.” The answer, he suggests, is that most of alien life will be the equivalent of microbes or simple animals -- the sort of life that has dominated Earth for most of its history -- and they could pose a serious threat to us. In May Hawking said he believed humans could travel millions of years into the future and repopulate their devastated planet. If spaceships are built that can fly faster than the speed of light, a day on board would be equivalent to a year on Earth. That's because -- according to Einstein -- as objects accelerate through space, time slows down around them. “Time travel was once considered scientific heresy, and I used to avoid talking about it for fear of being labelled a crank," he said in Stephen Hawking's Universe. "These days I’m not so cautious.”
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Space colonization solves extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Matheny 7</span> [Jason G. Matheny, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” December 7, 2007, Risk Analysis: Volume 27, Issue 5, pages 1335–1344, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1539-6924.2007.00960.x/full, DA 7/16/11]//RS
As for astronomical risks, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">to escape our sun's death, humanity will eventually need to relocate</span>. If we survive the next century, we are likely to build self-sufficient colonies in space. <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">We would be motivated by self-interest to do so, as asteroids, moons, and planets have valuable resources to mine, and the technological requirements for colonization are not beyond imagination</span> (Kargel, 1994; Lewis, 1996). <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">Colonizing space sooner, rather than later, could reduce extinction risk</span> (Gott, 1999; Hartmann, 1984; Leslie, 1999), <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">as a species' survivability is closely related to the extent of its range</span> (Hecht, 2006). Citing, in particular, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">the threat of new biological weapons, Stephen Hawking has said, “I don't think the human race will survive the next thousand years, unless we spread into space. There are too many accidents that can befall life on a single planet</span>” (Highfield, 2001). Similarly, <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">NASA Administrator, Michael Griffin</span> (2006), recently remarked: “The history of life on Earth is the history of extinction events, and human expansion into the Solar System is, in the end, fundamentally about the survival of the species.” Perhaps more cost effective than building refuges in space would be building them on Earth. Elaborate bunkers exist for government leaders to occupy during a nuclear war (McCamley, 2007). And remote facilities are planned to protect crop seeds from “nuclear war, asteroid strikes, and climate change” (Hopkin, 2007). But I know of no self-sufficient, remote, permanently occupied refuge meant to protect humanity from a range of possible extinction events. Hanson (2007) argues that <span style="font-size: 13.33px;">a refuge permanently housing as few as 100 people would significantly improve the chances of human survival during a range of global catastrophes</span>. The Americas and Polynesia were originally populated by fewer than 100 founders (Hey, 2005; Murray-McIntosh et al., 1998). Although it would take thousands of years for 100 people to repopulate Earth, this would be a small setback compared to extinction.
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">
</span>
=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]