If you have any questions, email me at [[mailto:k.thakore95@gmail.com|k.thakore95@gmail.com]] ... mahnvee will never answer, trust me
YES I WILL GOSH-- you can email me at mahnveed@gmail.com 
[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==COIN 1AC (Most recent one read)== 



<span style="border: initial none initial; display: block; padding: 0in;">
<span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; line-height: 11.4pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Inherency </span>**</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">No endgame has been defined – the plan is key</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Lieutenant General **Barno**, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and **Exum 2010** [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> p. 7-8] 8</span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> The Obama administration has articulated consistently its desired policy... rapidly growing national debt will place greater</span>


<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> </span>
<span style="border: initial none initial; display: block; padding: 0in;">
<span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; line-height: 11.4pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan_Aff_Blake-Terror]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Terrorism</span>** </span></span>

<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Afghanistan is the key safe haven</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Lieutenant General **Barno**, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and **Exum 2010** [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> p. 9] 9</span></span>

<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The United States has many interests in Afghanistan, … struggle remains firmly in the AfghanPakistan border region.</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Cambria Math',serif; font-size: 8pt;">⁷</span></span>

<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">A nuclear terrorist attack is inevitably by 2013 - Al Qaida will execute it and it will kill thousands and cause global instability - ALL top experts agree</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Allison 10</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> - Douglas Dillon professor of government and director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government (Graham, “A Failure to Imagine the Worst,” Foreign Policy, January 25th,</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/25/a_failure_to_imagine_the_worst?page=0,0]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">)</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In his first speech to the U.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">action, and relentless determination to pursue it.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Al Qaeda has the means to launch a CBW attack on the US – recruitment</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Woodward, 2010</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Bob, Obama’s Wars. Published 9/27 2010 Kindle Edition Locations 228-36] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">McConnell had then moved during the September briefing to one of the most pressing worries. Al Qaeda was recruiting people from the 35 countries who didn’t need visas to enter the United States. It was paying them good money, bringing them into the ungoverned regions by the dozens, training them in all aspects of warfare—explosives and chemical—and trying to have them acquire biological weapons. “We’re a big open sieve,” McConnell said. “They’re trying to get people with passports that don’t require a visa to get into the United States.” Al Qaeda had not succeeded yet, but that was the big worry. “We can’t find any cell in the United States, but we suspect there may be some.” That got Obama’s full attention. Some of the 9/11 hijackers had operated for nearly 18 months in the United States before their attacks. As he had said at the end of that meeting, there were reasons to worry about winning the election.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Afghanistan is the ONLY staging point for al Qaeda to launch a large-scale attack</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Arkedis 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jim Arkedis is the director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007. OCTOBER 23, 2009, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven]]</span> | Suo)</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">As deliberations about the Obama administration's strategic direction </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Qaeda the only physical space it can access.</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Escalates to US-China-Russia war, environmental collapse, and extinction</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Morgan 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science/journal/00163287|Futures]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[@http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezp-prod1.hul.harvard.edu/science?_ob=PublicationURL&_tockey=%23TOC%235805%232009%23999589989%231515128%23FLA%23&_cdi=5805&_pubType=J&view=c&_auth=y&_acct=C000014438&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=209690&md5=7eaadd08919055b45011bba80bf06023|Volume 41, Issue 10]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In a remarkable website on nuclear war, </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">through the accidental or reckless use of strategic weapons</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Nuclear terrorism is a d-rule – we cant afford to make any mistakes.</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Woodward, 2010</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Bob, Obama’s Wars. Published 9/27 2010 Kindle Edition Locations 6097] </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">To address worries of a nuclear terrorist attack in the United States, Brennan ran a top-to-bottom classified exercise on Tuesday, May 18, testing how the intelligence agencies and federal government would respond. Called COOPEX 2010 (Continuity of Operations Exercise), it was essentially a scripted war game in which terrorists detonated a small, crude nuclear weapon in Indianapolis, taking down several city blocks and killing thousands. In the hypothetical scenario, the terrorists had access to about 17 kilograms of fissile material. After the Indianapolis blast, enough was left over for a second bomb, which the terrorists planned to set off in Los Angeles. Obama himself participated, appearing on the secure video with a series of questions. How did this happen? Who most likely did it? Was it state-sponsored? How can we retaliate? As part of the game, the nuclear material had come from a country much like Pakistan, but the attack was not state-sponsored because that country—just as Pakistan was in some cases—had been fighting the terrorist group responsible for it. No immediate retaliation against the country was deemed necessary. Each federal department and agency had to weigh in with evaluations and recommendations. The Agriculture Department noted that the price of food was shooting through the roof. Some discussion focused on the demand for services and treatment at Indianapolis hospitals, but no one addressed the question of clean water, one of the major needs after a nuclear fallout. Such an attack would create mass panic and almost unimaginable dislocations in the economy and transportation, making 9/11 look small. But COOPEX 2010 included no discussion of what Congress, the media or 300 million Americans were doing. The attack was presented in a vacuum, as if all those people stayed on the sidelines. Michael Morell, named deputy director of the CIA a month earlier, raised a different problem. According to his calculations, there was likely enough fissile material for yet another bomb. “We haven’t found the third bomb,” Morell said. “Brennan went ripshit,” recalled one senior participant. This was designed as a two-bomb scenario, not three. “And he’s trying to wrap it up neatly and tidily, but Morell kept wondering if there was a third bomb. What about a third bomb? And they couldn’t wrap it up.” This participant said the whole exercise was “dumbfounding” and “surrealistic,” demonstrating that the administration seemed woefully unprepared to deal with such an attack. During my Oval Office interview with the president, Obama volunteered some extended thoughts about terrorism: “I said very early on, as a senator, and continued to believe as a presidential candidate and now as president, that we can absorb a terrorist attack.” I was surprised. “We’ll do everything we can to prevent it, but even a 9/11, even the biggest attack ever, that ever took place on our soil, we absorbed it and we are stronger. This is a strong, powerful country that we live in, and our people are incredibly resilient.” Then he addressed his big concern, “A potential game changer would be a nuclear weapon in the hands of terrorists, blowing up a major American city. Or a weapon of mass destruction in a major American city. And so when I go down the list of things I have to worry about all the time, that is at the top, because that’s one area where you can’t afford any mistakes. And so right away, coming in, we said, how are we going to start ramping up and putting that at the center of a lot of our national security discussion? Making sure that that occurrence, even if remote, never happens.”</span></span>

<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Removing troops increases local pressure against Al-Qaeda</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> **<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dorronsoro 9</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (DR. Gilles November 17, “U.S. STRATEGY IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN; COMMITTEE: HOUSE ARMED SERVICES; SUBCOMMITTEE: OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS”, lexis)</span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The International Coalition's main objective in Afghanistan is </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND </span></span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">invest more resources into fighting its primarily enemy directly</span></span>


<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> </span>
<span style="border: initial none initial; display: block; padding: 0in;">
<span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; line-height: 11.4pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan_Aff_Blake-Region]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Regionalism Advantage</span>** </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> Status Quo is a proxy war between regional powers</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Pant, Visiting Scholar (Winter 2010) Center for the Advanced Study of India University of Pennsylvania Lecturer, Department of Defence Studies King’s College London, 2010 [ Harsh V. , “INDIA’S CHALLENGE IN AFGHANISTAN: WITH POWER COMES RESPONSIBILITY”</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://casi.ssc.upenn.edu/system/files/India%27s+Challenge+in+Afghanistan+-+Harsh+V.+Pant+%28CASI+Working+Paper%29.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">] 1</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> Pakistan remains concerned about deepening India-Iran …. in order to secure its larger strategic interests.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> This leads to Indo-China competition and escalation through war by proxies.</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> p. 14] 11</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> As President Obama weighs his choices in the coming months, … responsibility in Afghanistan to the Afghans by the end of 2014.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> Continued Indo-China competition sparks arms race increasing chance of war</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Sullivan and Maza 2010 [ Tim and Michael, “The Next Nuclear Arms Race” September 27 2010,</span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703384204575509163717438530.html]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">] 6</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> India and Pakistan are the two countries most likely … creates the conditions for heightened insecurity.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> A Shift to smaller footprint curbs regional competition and lowers Pakistani leverage</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> Amritage and Berger 11/12 2010 [Richard L and Samuel R. “U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan” PDF p.56-8] 3</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> As this assessment unfolds, the Obama administration should share with … Pakistan-based terrorist networks, like LeT.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> Thats key to US-India Relations</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Win 11/3 2010 [Hanna Ingber, “Obama in India: counterterrorism cooperation” </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/india/101027/president-barack-obama-counter-terrorism-mumbai-attacks]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">] 31</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> And yet, despite the glowing rhetoric, ... there are incident-related times of cooperation.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> India relations key to denuke Iran, secure indian ocean, and stop regional competition. Prioritization key.</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Andersen, 2010 [Walter K. “Reviving the Momentum in US Engagement with India : An American Perspective ” India Quarterly: A Journal of International Affairs 2010 66: 13 </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://iqq.sagepub.com/content/66/1/13.full.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">] 43</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> The end of the Cold War gave India an opportunity to break out of the narrow … make to US objectives in Asia and the potential threat of China to India.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> Plan key to stop destabilization of the region and stop a large scale proxy war. Spills over – extremist recruitment.</span>
<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> p. 9 – 10] 10</span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> The United States has many other interests in Afghanistan, Pakistan and the surrounding region. … that would serve as a useful recruiting tool. The second-order effects of the next U.S. choices in Afghanistan should not be underestimated.</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> Central Asian instability risks global nuclear conflict involving the U.S. and Russia</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> Blank, 1 - professor of research at the Strategic Studies Institute of the US Army War College, (Stephen, Central Asian Security: The New International Context, ed: Allison, p. 142-144) OLD</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;"> The regional structure of political forces hardly engenders optimism … to create spheres of influence but also provides smaller states with the means to resist them by balancing competing rivals.66</span>



<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> </span>
<span style="border: initial none initial; display: block; padding: 0in;">
<span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; line-height: 11.4pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan_Aff_Blake-Plan_T]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Plan Text</span>** </span></span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 11.4pt;">The United States federal government should begin a phased transition starting in July of 2011 to no more than 35,000 troops in Afghanistan by 2014.</span>



<span style="line-height: 11.4pt;"> </span>
<span style="border: initial none initial; display: block; padding: 0in;">
<span style="border-bottom-style: none; border-color: initial; border-left-style: none; border-right-style: none; border-top-style: none; border-width: initial; line-height: 11.4pt; padding-bottom: 0in; padding-left: 0in; padding-right: 0in; padding-top: 0in;">[[#Affirmative-Afghanistan_Aff_Blake-SOLVEN]]**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">SOLVENCY</span>** </span></span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Plan’s signal is key to reassure allies and protect US interests</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> p. 2 - 34-5] 16</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Establishing a hard and fast timeline for implementing a new strategy … the United States is the right decision at the right time.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Plan solves resurgency – US power and planning</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> p. 29] 22</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> As the United States and NATO begin to draw down and consolidate bases a ... will likely impose a dramatic psychological toll on Taliban resilience.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Reform fails – plan is key to transition towards development and undermine the shadow economy.</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> p. 15-17] 12</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The unfortunate state of the Afghan central government … entirely – must be seen as even less palatable to the leadership in Kabul.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Timetable key – sole conditions risk infinite presence</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Retired Lieutenant General Barno, Senior Advisor and Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security. and Exum 2010 [ Luitenant General (retired) David Barno and Andrew Exum, “Responsible Transition Securing U.S. Interests in Afghanistan Beyond 2011” Center for a New American Security, </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_ResponsibleTransition_BarnoExum_2.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> p. 26] 15</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Does this plan to draw down forces operate on a... should guide future decisions to allocate forces and efforts.</span>




=Negative= 


=Topicality= 



==T Shifting Strategies Bad== 



A. Interpretation – presence is the physical deployment of military forces.
GAO, 1 – General Accounting Office (“EUROPEAN SECURITY U.S. and European Contributions to Foster Stability and Security in Europe,” November
[http://www.investigativeproject.org/documents/testimony/214.pdf]

DOD defines overseas presence as … full range of military operations.

B. Violation – the aff doesn’t reduce the physical deployment of forces – they change particular military combat tactics by stopping the use of one type of force. Presence is only the military means – not the particular mission it’s used for
Kugler, 98 – senior consultant at the Center for Technology and National Security Policy (CTNSP) of the National Defense University, he previously was a Distinguished Research Professor there (Richard, “Future Directions for the U.S. Overseas Military Presence”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR956/MR956.2.pdf)

Overseas presence is a policy … economic, and military in nature.

C. Voting issue –

1. Limits – defining presence as a mission is unlimited – it refers to any or every political goal or tactic the US has
Dismukes, 94 – representative of the Center for Naval Analyses to the London staff of the Commander in Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe. (Bradford, “National Security Strategy and Forward Presence: Implications
for Acquisition and Use of Forces,” March, http://cna.org/sites/default/files/research/2793019200.pdf)

Beyond the direct defense of … outlined in table 1, on page 23.

2. Predictable negative ground – there’s no stable mechanism for the negative to attack under their interpretation, the only predictable ground stems from disads and counterplans based on removing force deployments.


==T Presence not weapons== 



1. Definition - Presence consists of infrastructure, troops and agreements and exercises conducted with the host country but excludes weapons systems
J.E. Peterson, Ph.D. Fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute, Middle East Institute, an Adjunct Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, worked at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, and more. 2008. “Foreign Military Presence and its Role in Reinforcing Regional Security: A Double-Edged Sword.” Emirates Center for Strategic Studies and Research. pp. 183-205. <http://www.jepeterson.net/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderfiles/Foreign_Military_Presence_in_the_Gulf.pdf>

Table 7.2 Levels of Foreign Military Presence … movements; Cuba in Africa. 

2. Violation- The aff only removes a weapon system

3. Standards
a. The aff justifies squirrely weapon of the week affs which are unpredictable and unlimiting because the United States uses thousands of different guns, tanks, planes, and other weapons systems that could possibly be removed.
b. We allow for the most educational and predictable aff ground, 
c. They destroy key neg ground, like the redeployment and deterrence disad
d. The aff can claim the weapons they remove are replaced by some different type, functionally makes the topic bidirectional
e. And even if they remove troops, they are extra-T which is uniquely bad in this instance because their internals are all based off of the explicit removal of these 
f. They justify removing weapon systems that aren’t explicitly within the topic countries but could be utilized within these countries like the drones in Pakistan or tomahawk missiles positioned on carriers 
g. They are stealing neg ground, changing the troop’s tactics and weapons are key cps to test the desirability of actually removing presence 
Vote Neg for Fairness and Education


==PSPEC== 

A. Interpretation the Aff must specify what type of presence they withdraw - Presence includes an array of activities
Thomason 2 – Project Leader, Institute for Defense Analysis (James, “Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD,” July, http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.122.1144&rep=rep1&type=pdf)

WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE … contingency should call for them.

B. Violation: Aff doesn’t specify a type of presence

C. Kills PIC ground – Justifies vague plan texts that allows to aff to not defend withdrawal of specific presence activities. PICs are the only way for the neg to have the element of surprise promoting aff strategic thinking which allows for the development of quick smart responses.

D. Incentivizes the use of conditions, consult, and international CP’s which are comparatively worse for both neg education and aff strategic thinking

E. Kills Education – Destroys our ability to have a dialectic discussion on core military issues since we can’t go in depth on the intricacies of the topic

Voter for Fairness and Education


=Kritiks= 


==Heroism== 


The discourse of losing war is a notion that we must continue winners – this is at the root of the heroic narrative that dominates the cultural narrative 
Creed, Dissertation for doctorate of philosophy ; Master of Education and Bachelor of Arts, 2009 [Pamela M. “Myth, Memory and Militarism: The Evolution of an American War Narrative” PDF] 

Nancy C.M. Hartsock (Hartsock, 1984) argues … with it - the very real horror of war.

War creates an unescapable addiction that controls every part of society in order to continue the conflict. This quest inevitably leads to human destruction 
Hedges, 2002 [Christopher “War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” Kindle Edition Locations 41-70] 

I learned early on that … stupid once the war ended.

The alternative is to connect to empathy rather than go to war – we have an individual responsibility to reject war’s myth and accept that our enemies have morals.
Hedges, 2002 [Christopher “War is a Force That Gives Us Meaning” Kindle Edition Locations 175-98]

Before conflicts begin, the first … is a call for repentance.


==Security== 


The concept of security is a social construct. Claims of war and conflict create a false dichotomy between the evil “them” and the good “us” ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. The social context of realist security discourse outweighs affirmative advantage claims. 
David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) 

Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices … state’s very conditions of existence are generated18. 

Securitization is a precondition to genocide- their advantage descriptions will be used to justify massive violence
Karsten Friis, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]

The problem with societal securitization … where truth is never questioned. 

The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s appeals to securitization. Questioning the conditions of possibility for power relations created through the affirmative’s representations refuses to participate in calculative and depoliticizing worst case scenario predictions. 
Edkins 1999 [Jenny, Senior Lecturer in International Politics at the University of Wales Aberystwyth, Postructuralism and International Relations: Bringing the Political Back In, p. 1-3]

Ironically, what we call "politics … representation of power to emerge?"12



=Counter Plans= 



==Appropriations== 


The United States Congress should end any and all appropriations for operations in _.

Ending funding precipitates withdrawal – only check Congress has on war powers
Rosen, ‘7, “In Wartime, Who Has the Power?”, (Legal Analyst for the New York Times and CNN)
[Jeffrey, http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?_r=4&pagewanted=all]

Legal scholars — both critics and … how the war is conducted. 

Congress using the funding powers unilaterally is the clearest way to check presidential actions
Will, ‘7, “Congress’s Unused War Powers”, (ABC News Pulitzer-Prize Winning Journalist, PhD Princeton of Journalism)
[George, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/11/02/AR2007110201785_pf.html]

While legislators try to leash … will merit its current marginalization. 

This is key for Separation of Powers – empirical proof
Harvard Law Review, ‘6, “Recapturing the War Power”, (Issue 119, April 2006, ‘Notes’)
[http://www.harvardlawreview.org/issues/119/april06/notes/war_power.pdf, 10-11]

The Constitution adopts a similar … continue a national military engagement.59

Lack of separation of powers causes nuclear war
Forrester, ’89, “Presidential Wars in the Nuclear Age: An Unresolved Problem”, (Professor @Hastings College of Law)
[The George Washington Law Review Volume 636 ]

On the basis of this … he making of presidential wars. 


==PRT’s== 


The United States federal government should substantially reduce non-Provincial Reconstruction Team counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan. 

PRTs are part of COIN 
Currier, 2009 [J Max, “The U.S. Mission in Afghanistan: Counterinsurgency and Provincial Reconstruction Teams” http://www.hamilton.edu/documents//levitt-center/Currier_article.pdf]//

//Provincial reconstruction teams (PRTs)—joint … comprehensive, and simultaneous counterinsurgency approach.//

//PRTs can exists alongside counterterrorism twenty thousand is a maximum//
//Currier, 2009 [J Max, “The U.S. Mission in Afghanistan: Counterinsurgency and Provincial Reconstruction Teams” http://www.hamilton.edu/documents//levitt-center/Currier_article.pdf] 

Establishing a PRT outpost in … village (where most PRTs are based) (Hallett, 2008).

PRTs key to stability – infrastructure bolsters the economy and decreases suicide bombings. 
Currier, 2009 [J Max, “The U.S. Mission in Afghanistan: Counterinsurgency and Provincial Reconstruction Teams” http://www.hamilton.edu/documents//levitt-center/Currier_article.pdf] 

Commander Dave Adams (U.S. Navy), commander … to the ANA at one of them (Marlowe, 2008)


==Tactial PIC== 


Text: The USFG should remove its forward-deployed nuclear weapons in Turkey.

Observation 2: Net benefits 

Labeling weapons as “tactical” makes nuclear weapons more “useable” and cheapens their perceived effects
Capello, Hall and Lambert ’02 [John, USAF Major, Assistant Director of Operations/Chief Long Range Planning. Gwendolyn, USAF Lieutenant Colonel, Commander of the Dean of Faculty Squadron Section and a Sequential Tour Officer at the Air Force Academy. Stephen, USAF Major, Special Air Missions Pilot with the 99th Airlift Squadron at Andrews AFB, MD “Tactical Nuclear Weapons: Debunking the Mythology” http://74.125.47.132/search?q=cache:AJAFouZ1UxkJ:www.usafa.af.mil/df/inss/OCP/OCP46.pdf+%22yost%22+%22tactical+nuclear+weapons%22&cd=3&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us]

It is unfortunate that the … destructive” than other nuclear weapons. 

Nuclear “usability” makes nuclear development and war inevitable
Kimball ’03 [Daryl, Executive Director of the Arms Control Association, Nov. 7, “Arms Experts Rap Congress for Backing Bush Administration's Nuclear Weapons Ambitions; A "Setback" for Addressing Global Nuclear” http://www.armscontrol.org/print/2543]

A congressional decision announced today … or another country,” he stressed.

They diminish psychological fear of the bomb
Capello, Hall and Lambert ’02 [John, USAF Major, Assistant Director of Operations/Chief Long Range Planning. Gwendolyn, USAF Lieutenant Colonel, Commander of the Dean of Faculty Squadron Section and a Sequential Tour Officer at the Air Force Academy. Stephen, USAF Major, Special Air Missions Pilot with the 99th Airlift Squadron at Andrews AFB, MD “Tactical Nuclear Weapons: Debunking the Mythology” http://74.125.47.132/search?q=cache:AJAFouZ1UxkJ:www.usafa.af.mil/df/inss/OCP/OCP46.pdf+%22yost%22+%22tactical+nuclear+weapons%22&cd=3&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us]

While a 20 kiloton yield … problem masquerading as a solution.

Fear of the bomb is key to prevent its use
Rajaraman ’02 [Ran, Professor of Theoretical Physics, JNU, April 22, “Ban battlefield nuclear weapons” http://www.hindu.com/2002/04/22/stories/2002042200431000.htm]

The U.S. in Vietnam and … face of serious military crises.


=Disads= 



==Detterence (skorea)==


US troop pullout causes Japan to nuclearize and embolden China against Taiwan. 
Dao, 03 (1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html, JMP)

Deciding if now is the time … that they see in the region."

China-Taiwan causes extinction. 
The Strait Times, 2000 
[“No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis]   

The high-intensity scenario postulates a cross-strait … China puts sovereignty above everything else.   

Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT. 
Halloran, 2009
[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html]

That anxiety has reinvigorated a debate … huddled under the US nuclear umbrella. 

Nuclear war. 
Cimbala, 2008  
[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]

If the possibility existed of a mistaken … marginalization of major interstate warfare.



==Deterrence (afghan)== 

Withdrawal causes nuclear terrorism. 
Chase and Bacevich, 9
(Genevieve, founder of American Women Veterans, AND Andrew, professor of international relations at Boston University, “SEN. JOHN KERRY HOLDS A HEARING ON SOLDIERS' STORIES FROM THE AFGHAN WAR,” Political Transcript Wire, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_8167/is_20090427/ai_n50869482/pg_30/, NJ)

CHASE: With all due respect, sir … leave them to their devices. 

Nuclear terrorist attack causes extinction
Morgan, 9
(Dennis Ray Morgan, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693, World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race)

In a remarkable website on … reckless use of strategic weapons.



==Turkey Prolif DA== 

Removing nukes from Turkey causes Turkish prolif
McNamara and Spring, March 4, 2010 (Sally and Baker, “President Obama Must Not Remove Nuclear Weapons from Europe” The Heritage Foundation, << http://heritage.org/Research/Reports/2010/03/President-Obama-Must-Not-Remove-Nuclear-Weapons-from-Europe>> DA: July 19, 2010, SL) 

At this time, however, a … force posture at a disadvantage

Turkish prolif leads to global proliferation and water wars
Romero 99 (Jane's Intelligence Review March 1, 1999; Pg. 32 HEADLINE: Charting reactions to the Islamic bomb)

Turkey, like Israel, has expressed … region trying to develop WMD.



==US Turkey Relations DA== 


US and Turkey relations high- cooperation
M&C 12/11/10 (Monsters and Critics, A European News Paper, US, Turkey to maintain cooperation despite cable leaks, http://www.monstersandcritics.com/news/europe/news/article_1605030.php/US-Turkey-to-maintain-cooperation-despite-cable-leaks)

The United States and Turkey intend … to maintain a model relationship.

TNWs first and foremost strengthen the U.S.-Turkish bond –withdrawal would weaken the longstanding relationship 
Kibaroglu,05 (Mustafa, Assistant professor in the department of international relations at Bilkent University, European Security 14.4, December 2005)

However, the fundamental reason why … would prefer to term it).

US-Turkish relations are crucial to Middle East stability, counterterrorism, oil conflicts, and free trade
Menon and Wimbush, 07, (Rajan and S. Enders, Monroe J. Rathbone Professor of International Relations, Lehigh University Fellow, New America Foundation and Director, Center for Future Security Strategies, Hudson Institute. “Is The United States Losing Turkey?” Hudson Institute, http://www.hudson.org/files/pdf_upload/Turkey%20PDF.pdf. 3/25/2007)

If Turkey, a key friend … Iraq and Turkey’s other neighbors

Central Asian oil conflicts leads to regional arms races that escalate into great power wars

Klare 2008 (Michael, professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College “The rise of the new energy world order,” http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Global_Economy/JD17Dj04.html)

A growing risk of conflict … who control its global distribution.


=On Case Answers= 




==Heg Advantage== 

Only multipolarity can solve
Weber et al 07 Professor of Political Science and Director of the Institute for International Studies at Berkeley
(Steven with Naazneen Barma, Matthew Kroenig, and Ely Ratner, Ph.D. Candidates at the University of California-Berkeley and Research Fellows at its New Era Foreign Policy Center, [“How Globalization Went Bad,” Foreign Policy, Issue 158, January/February,)

Axiom 1: Above a certain threshold … means of constraining American power.

Latent power means heg inevitable
Wohlforth 07 Olin Fellow in International Security Studies at Yale University
(William, Unipolar Stability: The Rules of Power Analysis, A Tilted Balance, Vol. 29 (1) - Spring 2007)

US military forces are stretched … large wellsprings of latent power. 



==Terrorism Advantage== 

Terror key to US presence in Central Asia
Tertrais 01 [Bruno Tertrais, Senior Research Fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research, 12/4/’1 (What are the Strategic and Geopolitical Consequences of the War Against Terrorism?, p. Google)]

Finally, I should add the … for Al-Qaida-like organizations.

That solves nuclear war
Ahrari 01 [Dr. M. Ehsan, Professor of National Security and Strategy of the Joint and Combined Warfighting School at the Armed Forces Staff College, 8/1/’1 (www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/Pubs/display.cfm?pubID=112)]

South and Central Asia constitute a … a gain for all concerned.

The odds of terrorists constructing and detonating a nuclear weapon is one in over three billion
Choong 9 (William, Senior Writer at The Straits Times, Lexis) 

This leaves the second route … to questions by this newspaper.

Yemen and Somalia matter more – al Qaeda adapts
Mazzetti 10 – Pulitzer Prize for international reporting for NYT (Mark, 2/3, The New York Times, “Al Qaeda Intent on Attack, Senators Told” Lexis Nexis) 

Citing a recent wave of … were taking on more importance.

It’s empirically proven force reduction will reduce intelligence gathering and create sanctuaries for terrorists.
O'Hanlon, ’09 (Michael, senior fellow the Brookings Institution , former national security analyst at the Congressional Budget Office, Oct. 6, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/10/05/AR2009100502705.html, “ A General Within Bounds”, da: 7-19-10, twm)

The past eight years have … for McChrystal to pretend otherwise



==
==
==Pakistan Advantage== 
==
==


Pakistan stability increasing now – four reasons
Fair, 10 - assistant professor at Georgetown University and a visiting scholar at the Lahore University of Management Science (Christine, “Is Pakistan a failed state? No.,” 6/24, 
http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/24/is_pakistan_a_failed_state_no

So, Pakistan faces severe challenges … failed or even failing state. 

No risk that Pakistani nukes are stolen
Innocent, 10 - foreign policy analyst at the Cato Institute (Malou, “Away from McChrystal and Back to the Basics,” Huffington Post, 6/28, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11934) 

Pakistan has an elaborate command … Rambo-like scenario remains highly unlikely.

Drawdown will crush US-Pakistan relations – Pakistan wants commitment – breakdown in relations guts cooperation against Al-Qaeda. 
Wall Street Journal, 2009 (Wall Street Journal, "U.S. Credibility and Pakistan," October 2009, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704471504574443352072071822.html) arjun

Critics of the war in Afghanistan … Pakistan to help against al Qaeda.

Al- Qaeda rise leads to extinction 
The Washington Times 8 (By Louis Rene Beres, Thomas McInerney and Paul E. Vallely, SPECIAL TO THE WASHINGTON TIMES, July 18, “McCain and Obama must take note”, lexis)

Neither presidential candidate has made … less than our physical survival.

Withdrawal would kill Afghanistan stability
Twining 9 (Dan Twining 09/30/2009, Foreign Policy, “The stakes in Afghanistan go well beyond Afghanistan”<http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan>. )

And that is the point … and prosperity than any other.


==Specific Neg Strats (for this partnership)== 


==Fayette==

Fayette Round 1 - Sequoyah ?? (Kritikal Okinawa (Rape, Okinawa Identity))

1NC: PSPEC, Appropriations, Politics (Debt Ceiling), Detterence, Framework, Case

Neg Block: Appropriations, Framework, PSPEC

2NR: Appropriations, Framework


Fayette Round 4 - Westminster LM (South Korea (korean war, regionalism))

1NC: PSPEC, Heroism, Detterence, Japan Rearm, Case

Neg Block: Heroism, PSPEC

2NR: PSPEC


==JV State==


JV STATE Round 1- Pace BC (TNW's (Diplomacy and Iran))

1NC: T Presence not weapons, Turkish Prolif, Detterence DA, Tactical PIC, Case

Neg Block: PIC, Case, T Presence not weapons

2NR: PIC


JV STATE Round 3 - Chatahooche DK (COIN (Heg and Insurgency))

1NC: T Shift Strat Bad, Detterence, PRT's, Heroism, Case

Neg Block: Heroism and T

2NR: Heroism


JV STATE Round 5 - Dunwoody HW (COIN (Heg and Pakistan))

1NC: T Shift Strat Bad, Detterence, PRT's, Heroism, Case

Neg Block: Heroism and T

2NR: Heroism


==Woodward==

Woodward Round 1 - Niles West BG (COIN (Heg and Stability))
1NC: Heroism, Deterrence, PRT's, T Shift Strat Bad Case

Neg Block: PRT's, Case and T

2NR: PRT's

Woodward Round 4 - Hooch KK (COIN (Heg and Insurgency))
1NC: T Shift Strat bad, Heroism, Detterence, PRT's Case

Neg Block: Heroism, Case, and PRT's

2NR: PRT's and Heroism

Woodward Round 5 - GBN KT (SKorea (Russia, China rels, North Korea))
1NC: PSPEC, SKFTA, Appropriations, Detterence, Case

Neg Block: Appropriations, Detterence, Case

2NR: Detterence, Case,