[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="color: black;">Plourde 2004, (Shawn is a writer and animal rights activist, ‘What Did You Do in the War Fido?’, </span>http://www.thenausea.com/elements/special%20topics/crimesagainstanimals/animals%20in%20warfare/anim als%20in%20warfare.html<span style="color: black;">)</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0.25in;">The list of animals … than that of humans.</span>

Plourde 2004, (Shawn is a writer and animal rights activist, ‘What Did You Do in the War Fido?’, http://www.thenausea.com/elements/special%20topics/crimesagainstanimals/animals%20in%20warfare/anim als%20in%20warfare.html)
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0.25in;">The single greatest … treatment of animals.”</span>

LA Times 2010, (‘Along with troop surge in Afghanistan, a dog surge. Along with dog surge, a dog food dilemma’, January 25th) http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/unleashed/2010/01/along-with-troop-surge-in-afghanistan-a-dog-surge-along-with-dog-surge-a-dogfood-dilemma.html
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0.25in;">KANDAHAR AIR FIELD, Afghanistan — The U.S. troop … better than us."</span>
<span style="color: black;">Thus we present the following plan:</span>
<span style="color: black;">The United States federal government should substantially decrease its police presence in Afghanistan and all topically designated animal units.</span>
<span class="MsoCommentReference">
</span>
Francione 1996, (Gary is a professor at The Rutgers University School of Law, ‘Animal Rights: The Future’, World Prat Assembly, DLD: June 24th 2010, http://www.worldproutassembly.org/archives/2005/04/animal_rights_t.html)
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0.25in;">But there are …for the planet.</span>
<span class="MsoCommentReference">
</span>
<span style="color: black;">Steven Best, Chair of Philosophy at UT-EP, no date given [http://www.animalliberationfront.com/Philosophy/ARNewEnlightenment.htm]</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0.25in;">During this turbulent … evolve or die.</span>
<span class="MsoCommentReference">
</span>
<span style="color: black;">Bartlett 2002, (Steven J. completed his undergraduate work at the University of Santa Clara, received his master's degree from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and his doctorate from the Université de Paris.,‘Roots of Human Resistance to Animal Rights: Psychological and Conceptual Blocks’ </span><span style="color: blue;">http://www.animallaw.info/articles/arussbartlett2002.htm</span><span style="color: black;">)</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0.25in;">Animals are property. … and so on. [FN10]</span>
<span class="MsoCommentReference">
</span>
<span style="color: black;">Bartlett 2002, (Steven J. completed his undergraduate work at the University of Santa Clara, received his master's degree from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and his doctorate from the Université de Paris.,‘Roots of Human Resistance to Animal Rights: Psychological and Conceptual Blocks’ </span><span style="color: blue;">http://www.animallaw.info/articles/arussbartlett2002.htm</span><span style="color: black;">) </span>
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0.25in;">In the traditional … not experience pain.</span>
<span class="MsoCommentReference">
</span>
<span style="color: black;">Eric Katz, Director of Science, Technology, and Society Program at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, 1997 [</span>//<span style="color: black;">Nature as Subject </span>//<span style="color: black;">p. 3-10]</span>
<span style="color: black; margin-left: 0.25in;">At the end … trap of utilitarianism.</span>
<span class="MsoCommentReference">
</span>
Roxanne Lynn <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">Doty</span></span>, Assistant Professor in the Department of Political Science at Arizona State University, <span class="cite"><span style="font-weight: normal;">1996</span></span> (//Imperial Encounters: The Politics of Representation in North-South Relations//, Published by the University of Minnesota Press, Borderlines Series, ISBN 0816627622, p. 169-171)
<span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> The cases examined </span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">…</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> in dominant representations</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">. </span>

Change has to come from the way we view representations first. Representations, structures, and the way we experience are all interconnected but the key to is change the connection between our own subjectivity and other’s experience.
Arthur Kleinman, , Professor of Medical Anthropology and Professor of Anthropology at Harvard, The appeal of experience; the dismay of images: cultural appropriations of suffering in our times," DAEDALUS Winter 1996, p. http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qa3671/is_199601/ai_n8747499/print
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">Ultimately, we will … of civilizational change.</span>

Animal liberation is a moral imperative.
Steven Best, Chair of Philosophy at UT-EP, no date given [http://www.animalliberationfront.com/Philosophy/ARNewEnlightenment.htm]
<span style="margin-left: 0.25in;">So, as for … because it is right.”</span>


=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]