[[toc]]
=September-October= 
It's unlikely I'll be disclosing for the rest of the topic, but I'd be glad to answer any questions you may have about any of the positions I've run if you email nikhilnag17@gmail.com.
==Affirmative== 
**Basic AC-Alpha**

<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Definition of weapon. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Dictionary.com. [[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/weapon]]. 2010. Definition 1. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">“Any instrument…combat”. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Practical reason is the only way to found morality on legitimate principles. </span>
Kant, Immanuel. Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals. Jonathan Bennett, 2005.
“Utterly important in…in moral instruction.”
Practical reason requires that we universalize maxims.
Engstrom, Stephen, //The Form of Practical Knowledge//, Harvard University Press, 2009, p. 122-123.
“As we saw…of practical knowledge.”
It follows that we can’t infringe on end states.
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Engstrom, Stephen. Universal Law as the Form of Practical Knowledge. 18. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">“Now on the…the same freedom.” </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">C: Treating People As Ends In Themselves </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Conditional intent is still a deontological violation. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Dworkin, Gerald. “Nuclear Intentions”//. Ethics: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence// Vol. 95, No. 3. April, 1985. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“That one has…guide his decisions.” </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Nuclear deterrence holds hostages. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Lee, Steven (Chairman of the philosophy department and his professional affiliations include the American Philosophical Association and the American University of Professors (AUP)). “The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences”. Ethics, Vol. 95 No. 3. April 1985. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">“Hostages include all…is morally unacceptable.” </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Possession involves holding exclusive control over an object. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Ripstein, Arthur. “Kant on Law and Justice”. Pgs. 9-10. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">“The relations of…for his choice.” </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">States only act for public purposes of self-defense. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">Ripstein, Arthur. //Force and Freedom: Kant's Legal and Political Philosophy//, Harvard University Press, 2009. 228-229. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin: 0in; text-indent: 0in;">“The second difference…pursuit of them.” </span>

==Negative== 

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**Self Defense NC** </span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Individuals only leave the state of nature because of the benefits it provides to the members of cooperation. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Vattel, Emerich. __The Law of Nations__. T. & J.W. JOHNSON & CO., LAW BOOKSELLERS, 1883. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“Man is so… most solid foundations.” </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">C: Ensuring the Right to Self Defense </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">The purpose of nuclear weapons is for self-defense and deterrence. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Foster, John S. and Payne, Keith B. “What Are Nuclear Weapons For?” //American Physical Society.// Vol. 37, No. 4. October 2007. </span>
<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">“The value of …by nuclear weapons.”</span>

<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">T-Kissinger</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">Interp: The aff must defend a verifiable step toward disarmament.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">Kissinger, Henry (</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States|American]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_scientist|political scientist]]</span><span style="color: black;">, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diplomat|diplomat]]</span><span style="color: black;">, and recipient of the </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nobel_Peace_Prize|Nobel Peace Prize]]</span><span style="color: black;">. He served as </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Security_Advisor_(United_States)|National Security Advisor]]</span><span style="color: black;"> and later concurrently as </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Secretary_of_State|Secretary of State]]</span><span style="color: black;"> in the administrations of Presidents </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Nixon|Richard Nixon]]</span><span style="color: black;"> and </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 12pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerald_Ford|Gerald Ford]]</span><span style="color: black;">. He has his own Wikipediea page). “Our Nuclear Nightmare”. Newsweek. February 6, 2009. http://www.newsweek.com/2009/02/06/our-nuclear-nightmare.html</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0in;">"The complexity...nuclear program." </span>

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

NSD Camp Tournament

AFF:
Plan Text: 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">The United States will continue its use of targeted killing in Somalia against members of the Al-Shabaab terrorist organization.</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]