[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 

Iran/North Korea AC
Observation 1: Framework:
A nuclear weapon is a general name given to any weapon in which the explosion results from the energy released by reactions involving atomic nuclei, either fission, fusion or both. Thus, the A- (or atomic) bomb and the H- (or hydrogen) bomb are both nuclear weapons, (Atomic Archive)

Res's use of “state” in plural form means affirmative just has to prove two states shouldn't have nukes.

ought=moral obligation
V: morality

Governments must weigh consequences.

[Spring Editor of National Interest – Journal of International affairs and diplomacy].The National Interest, Spring, 1994; p. 11, 1994. “Power of Civilizations”]

“But in its context...and over-riding”

VC: maximizing protection of human rights

Observation 2: Plan Text: The Islamic Republic of Iran and Democratic People's Republic of North Korea will halt efforts to amass uranium rich materials.

C1) Iran
A: Uniqueness:Iran is currently in the process of amassing uranium-rich materials which are used for development of nuclear weapons. It's secretive policies make it impossible for the IAEA to keep a check on its uranium production.

Kevin Kallmeyer; Iran: 1, IAEA: 0. Center for Strategic and International Studies, 9/8/10. http://csis.org/blog/iran-1- iaea-0

“In a recent IAEA report...such activities have occurred”

B: Advantages

1. Iran's leaders are not deterred by the nuclear weapons of other nations.

Kittrie, Orde F., New Sanctions for a New Century: Treasury's Innovative Use of Financial Sanctions (May 10, 2009). University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law, Vol. 30, pp. 789-822, 2009. Available at SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract= 1402265


“First, the Iranian government...nuclear technology with others”

This has disastrous consequences

Mohamed Sid-Ahmed, Al-Ahram Weekly political analyst, 2004 [Al-Ahram Weekly, "Extinction!"

8/26, no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/ 2004/705/op5.htm]

“What would be...all be losers”



1. Israel is already paranoid of Iran's nuclear capabilities. Production of nuclear weapons will force Israel to launch a preemptive strike.
Israel stands ready to bomb Iran’s nuclear sites” Sheera Frenkel April 18, 2009 Times Online

“The Israeli military...and refueling tankers”




Iran will retaliate.

Rubin, Michael. "Can a Nuclear Iran be Contained or Deterred?." AEI (2008) Web. 3 Sep 2010. <http://www.aei.org/outlook/ 28896>.

“Should the Islamic...state of Israel”



Contention 2: North Korea

A: Uniqueness: North Korea is threatening to launch nuclear weapons due to US and South Korea military involvement.

Karen DeYoung Saturday, July 24, 2010. North Korea threatens nuclear response to U.S.-South Korea military exercises.__**http://www. washingtonpost.com/wp**__**.dyn/ content/article/2010/07/23/ AR2010072301387.html**

“North Korea raised...behavior Clinton said”



B: North Korean prolif leads to regional destabilization.

North Korean Nukes Risk Global “Domino Effect” South Says, Global Security Newswire 9/9/10. http://www. globalsecuritynewswire.org/ gsn/nw_20100909_1142.php

“North Korea's continued....news agency report”

==Negative== 

T: Weapons
A: Interpretation: Weapon is any instrument or instrumentality used in fighting or hunting


Princeton WordNet http://wordnetweb. princeton.edu/perl/webwn?s= weapon
Use=put into service; make work or employ for a particular purpose or for its inherent or natural purpose

http://wordnetweb.princeton. edu/perl/webwn?s=use&sub= Search+WordNet&o2=&o0=1&o7=& o5=&o1=1&o6=&o4=&o3=&h=00


-weapon=intent to harm

B: Violation: AC independent of intent

C: Standards

1) Common usage: this is how we use the word "weapon" everday

2) Limits: Limits the topic to implementation of nukes

D: Voter

Education is the fundamental purpose of debate

“The Primacy of Standards for Paradigm Evaluation: A Rejoinder.” Journal of the American Forensic Association. 1982.
"I believe that...different activity altogether"

Implementation Theory:
A: Interpretation: the aff must defend the implementation of disarmament with a solvency advocate
B: Violation
C: Standards
1) Real world decision-making: Policymakers must provide specific implementation methods
Elmore, 1980, Professor of public affairs at the University of Washington, (Political science quarterly, pg. 605)
"The emergence of...realm of implementation"
2) Ground : destroys link turn ground
D: Voter

Education is the fundamental purpose of debate

“The Primacy of Standards for Paradigm Evaluation: A Rejoinder.” Journal of the American Forensic Association. 1982.
"I believe that...different activity altogether"



INDO-PAK DA

Framework: Governments must weigh consequences.

[Spring Editor of National Interest – Journal of International affairs and diplomacy].The National Interest, Spring, 1994; p. 11, 1994. “Power of Civilizations”]
“But in its context...inviolable and over-riding.”


Uniqueness: Currently, conflicts exist regarding the ownership of Kashmir by both Pakistan and India.

World News: Kashmir Strife Clouds India-Pakistan Talks
. __**Wall Street Journal**__. (Eastern edition). New York, N.Y.: __Jul 14, 2010__. pg. A.12


“Indian external affairs...portion of Kashmir”
B: Link: Nuclear deterrence works.
Nuclear Weapons Reinforce Security and Stability in 21st Century Asia. Muthiah Alagappa. The following is an excerpt from The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia. A longer excerpt of this section of the book can be
found on the Global Asia website at [[http://www.globalasia.org|www.globalasia.org]].
1 This article draws on my chapters in The Long Shadow: Nuclear Weapons and Security in 21st Century Asia, Muthiah Alagappa,
editor, Stanford University Press 2008. The focus on this article is on nuclear weapons in inter-state relations which has received considerably less attention than the concern with nuclear terrorism. For those interested on the prospect of nuclear terrorism in Asia, chapter has been devoted to this topic in The Long Shadow.

“Although they do not...the Indian threat”

C: Impacts. Absence of nukes leads to war and unstable conditions in Afghanistan.


Kashmir Is the Key to Peace in Afghanistan
. __**Newsweek**__. New York: __Feb 15, 2010__. Vol. 155, Iss. 7

“To understand the link...consider stepping in.”

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="margin: 0px;">VC- Respecting constitutional due process rights</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">1. Evaluate US specific view of morality have to respect constitution.</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0px; text-align: justify;"> The Abortion Funding Conundrum: Inalienable Rights, Affirmative Duties, and the Dilemma of Dependence Author(s): Laurence H. Tribe Source: Harvard Law Review, Vol. 99, No. 1 (Nov., 1985), pp. 330-343 Published by: The Harvard Law Review Association Stable URL: <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.jstor.org/stable/1341122|http://www.jstor.org/stable/ 1341122]]</span>Accessed: 26/07/2010 05:06</span>
<span style="font-size: 15.6px;">"In our constitutional…negative individual right”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">2. Contractarinism is the only ethical system consistent with rational choice.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">Gauthier, David. 1986, Morals By Agreement, Oxford: Oxford University Press.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> “A contractarian theory… morally neutral base”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">3.Due process grant legitimacy in the criminal justice system</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">4. Due process rights are intrinsically valuable because they recognize human worth.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">1. Juvenile courts don’t give jury trials.</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0px; text-align: justify;">//<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT;">Chamberlin, Christine. NOTE: Not Kids Anymore: A Need for Punishment and Deterrence in the Juvenile Justice System. Boston College Law Review: Boston College Law School. March 2001. 42 B.C.L. Rev 391</span>//</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;">“Despite the similarities…criminal prior history”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">2. Force defendants into waiving right to council.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy Author(s): Barry C. Feld Source: The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), Vol. 88, No. 1 (Autumn, 1997), pp. 68-136 Published by: Northwestern University Stable URL: <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.jstor.org/stable/1144075|http://www.jstor.org/stable/ 1144075]]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> “Procedural justice hinges…practical procedural inequality”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">3. Denied "beyond reasonable doubt" burden of proof</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">Ainsworth, Janet. “The Court's Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases” (1996) <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.jstor.org/stable/1602594Accessed|http://www.jstor.org/stable/ 1602594Accessed]]</span>: 06/12/2010 20:39</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> “Despite the requirements…the adult system”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">Trial in adult court will solve.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">Ainsworth, Janet. “The Court's Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases” (1996) <span style="color: #0658b5;">[[@http://www.jstor.org/stable/1602594Accessed|http://www.jstor.org/stable/ 1602594Accessed]]</span>: 06/12/2010 20:39</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> “To the extent…by the state”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">Adult courts deter more than juveniles.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">Christine Chamberlin. “Not Kids Anymore: A Need for Punishment and Deterrence in the Juvenile Justice System” Copyright (c) 2001 Boston College Law School. Boston College Law Review</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> “This argument fails…from committing crimes”</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">Empirically verified.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px;">Steven D. Levitt “Juvenile Crime and Punishment.” National Bureau of Economic Research. September 1997</span>
<span style="margin: 0px;"> “Evidence that a…the operative force</span>
==Negative== 
Any just punishment must attempt to rehabilitate the offender.

<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> Edgardo Rotman. Do Criminal Offenders Have a Constitutional Right to Rehabilitation? The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 44, No. 4 (Winter 1986). pp. 1023 - 1068</span>
<span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: justify;"> [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/1143667]] </span>

“The humanistic model…citizenship after release.”

VC: Maintaining rehabilitative punishment

The adult prison system is non-rehabilitative.
Rotman (ibid)

“The denial of…of social reintegration.”

The Juvenile System emphasizes rehabilitation.

<span style="color: black; display: block; font-size: 10pt; text-align: justify;"> Chamberlin, Christine. NOTE: Not Kids Anymore: A Need for Punishment and Deterrence in the Juvenile Justice System. Boston College Law Review: Boston College Law School. March 2001. 42 B.C.L. Rev 391</span>
“Although the current…as productive citizens.”

===Native Americans PIC=== 
V- justice
VC- not egregiously dehumanizing a community of people. 
1C- federal control over Native American juveniles charged with violent felonies on Indian Reservations is a dehumanizing denial of tribal sovereignty. 
Advocacy: American Indian juveniles will be under the exclusive jurisdiction of tribal courts, and tribal courts will be provided with additional federal funding for this transition.
Uniqueness: Standefer 99 [Amy, JD Candidate (U Minnesota), The Federal Juvenile Delinquency Act: A Disparate Impact on Native American Juveniles, Minnesota Law Review 84 no2 473-503 D 1999]
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;">Subpoint A - Solvency</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;">Federal investigations into the efficacy of tribal courts have repeatedly found that they are up to recognized national standards. Such studies started with hostile intent, and yet were forced to recognize tribal courts’ strengths.</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;">Newton 98 [Nell Jessup, Dean/Professor (Notre Dame Law), One Year in the Life of Twenty Indian Tribal Courts, 22 Am. Indian L. Rev. 285]</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;">Subpoint B - Tribal Values and Sovereignty</span>
<span style="margin-bottom: 12.0pt;">Expanding tribal sovereignty affirms the values of the American Indian tradition. Tribal juvenile courts employ unique proceedings that are both effective and reflective of a unique heritage and cultural approach to community and delinquency.</span>
Patterson 2K [Sarah, New York Law School JD Candidate, Native American Juvenile Delinquents and the Tribal Courts: Who’s Failing Who?, 17 New York Law School Journal of Human Rights 801] 
The Native American struggle is representative of the struggle of marginalized people everywhere. Stopping this oppression is necessary to reaffirm the value of all oppressed peoples.
Friedberg 2k [Lilian, Dare to Compare: Americanizing the Holocaust, The American Indian Quarterly - Volume 24, Number 3, Summer 2000, pp. 353-380] 


=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]