[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

==1AC== 


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1: Inherency</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> The US won’t withdraw from Afghanistan – the upcoming deadlines will only increase troops</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Klein 6/24</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Joe Klein, staff writer for Time, “Can Obama and Petraeus Work Together?”,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.time.com/time/printout/0,8816,1999251,00.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">But </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">the policy featured…until July 2011."</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Counterinsurgency will inevitably fail – a counterterrorism strategy is more effective</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Nelson 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rick "Ozzie", Director, Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Program and Senior Fellow, International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Oct 1, “The Other Side of the COIN”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin]]</span>) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">A1: Probably not. </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Counterinsurgency</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> …</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> approach would entail.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Now is the key time – the small footprint approach is uniquely sustainable and delay risks precipitous withdrawal</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">It follows that </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">for that purpose. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Contention 2: Afghan Stability</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US props up the ineffective central government at the cost of stability</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Preble 10</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The appropriate question…</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">in the world</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> More specifically, COIN is inherently hostile to local authority structures</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Friedman 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Benjamin H. Friedman, research fellow in defense and homeland security studies, September 3, “Making Enemies in Afghanistan”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2009/09/03/making-enemies-in-afghanistan/]]</span> | Suo) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">Yaroslav </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Trofimov’s article</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">…possibility worth considering. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> And, US presence creates deepening spirals of instability and violence – a minimalist approach is key</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Simon and Stevenson 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”, //Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,// vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">within</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> the …</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">to the Taliban. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Withdrawal would create a locally-driven balance of power</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Suhrke 10</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;"> (Astri, Senior Research Fellow, Chr. Michelsen Institute, Ph. D. in International Relations from the University of Denver, 17 March, “The Case for a Light Footprint: The international project in Afghanistan”,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cmi.no/file/?997]]</span>) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The insurgency has…developments were going. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> This provincial security regime is comparatively the best way to stabilize Afghanistan</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Fisher 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Max, associate editor for the Atlantic on foreign affairs and national security, Nov 18 2009, “Can Warlords Save Afghanistan?”,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2009/11/can-warlords-save-afghanistan/30397/]]</span>) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 6pt;">President </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Obama has …foreseeable exit strategy.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Inevitable destabilization that results leads to violent fragmentation of Afghanistan, resulting in multiple nuclear wars</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Morgan 7</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Although disliked and…Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan!</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> [[#PHeg_Bad_Russia_China]]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Afghan instability spills over to Central Asia – causes conflict that draws in Russia</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Goble 10</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul, Georgian Daily, “Afghan Conflict Spreading into Central Asia, Russian Analyst Says”, 1-14, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16458&Itemid=65]]</span>) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Because NATO has…**<span style="background: yellow;">in</span>** </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 7pt;">as well. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> War in Central Asia is the most probable scenario for extinction</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Blank 2K</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen J. Blank, Expert on the Soviet Bloc for the Strategic Studies Institute, 2000, “American Grand Strategy and the Transcaspian Region”, World Affairs. 9-22)) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Thus </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">many structural </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">… settling the situation</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> No risk of Taliban takeover – withdrawal would kill their cohesion and local support</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Pillar 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul R. Pillar, 28-year veteran of the Central Intelligence Agency, a visiting professor at Georgetown University for security studies and a member of the Center for Peace and Security Studies, 10/14/09, “Counterterrorism and Stability in Afghanistan”,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://cpass.georgetown.edu/documents/AfghanHASCPillarOct09_1.doc]]</span> | Suo) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> This observation sheds...<span style="background: yellow;">as</span> an <span style="background: yellow;">occupation</span>.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Independently, COIN destabilizes Pakistan – small footprint key to prevent collapse</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Washington 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (George Washington, former adjunct professor and head writer of the Washington blog, Cites Andrew J. Bacevich, professor of international relations at Boston University, December 4, 2009, “A Cheaper and More Effective Military Strategy for Afghanistan”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.washingtonsblog.com/2009/12/better-military-strategy-for.html]]</span> | Suo) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Meanwhile, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">the chief…<span style="background: yellow;">the entire world</span>.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Pitt 9 </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">- a New York Times and internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]</span>) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> But a suicide…should we all.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 3: Hegemony</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> We’ll isolate two internal links,</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> First, War Fatigue – COIN perpetuates domestic backlash which undermines power projection and causes isolationism</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Kretkowski 10</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Paul D. Kretkowski, Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. Further experience overseas as rapporteur for university-sponsored "track two" diplomacy programs that provide enemies a forum for later cooperation and back-channel communication. Highly irregular reporting via blog on developments in soft power, public diplomacy and smart power, January 07, 2010, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html]]</span> | Suo) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Over the winter …(China, a reinvigorated Russia). </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Second, Overstretch, COIN devastates troop morale and readiness – collapsing hegemony</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Pyne 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **-** </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/]]</span>) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> In</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> Iraq and </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> this past year. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Heg solves every impact – the only threat to world peace is if we allow it to collapse</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Thayer 6</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> - </span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">A grand strategy…prosperity it provides. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> And, heg is sustainable – but continuing a failed strategy in Afghanistan undermines our leadership</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Innocent and Carpenter 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Malou Innocent, Foreign Policy Analyst at the Cato Institute, Ted Galen Carpenter, vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, 2009, “Escaping the 'Graveyard of Empires’”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf]]</span> | Suo)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Former national security …</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">than</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> would <span style="background: yellow;">withdrawal</span>.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> CT is better than COIN at intelligence gathering</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Nelson 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Rick “Ozzie” Nelson is a senior fellow in the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. He is a former Navy helicopter pilot with over twenty years operational and intelligence experience, including assignments at the National Security Council and the National Counterterrorism Center. He recently served in Afghanistan. Oct 15, 2009, “Intelligence Gathering Is Compatible with Counterterrorism”,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://csis.org/publication/intelligence-gathering-compatible-counterterrorism]]</span> | Suo) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Q1: </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Proponents of counterinsurgency</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> …Qaeda in Iraq. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Certainty of withdrawal is key – it shores up international credibility and boosts political support</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Schlesinger 10</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Stephen, Adjunct Fellow at the Century Foundation in New York City, the former Director of the World Policy Institute at the New School University, March 10, 2010, “The Only Way Out Of Afghanistan Is With A Withdrawal Deadline”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://takingnote.tcf.org/2010/03/the-only-way-out-of-afghanistan-is-a-withdrawal-deadline.html]]</span>) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> <span style="background: yellow;">The deadline is</span> …be the last.</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Plan:</span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;"> The United States federal government should substantially reduce its counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan to a level consistent with a counterterrorism posture.</span>**



<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Contention Four: We has friends </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Presence in Afghanistan kills our moral legitimacy – withdrawal opens up space for diplomacy </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Pascal 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Zachary, a member of the In These Times Board of Editors and a professor of journalism at Stanford University and is a fellow at the German Marshall Fund, “<span style="color: blue;">[[http://towardfreedom.com/home/global-news/1717-the-case-for-an-immediate-withdrawal-from-afghanistan|The Case For An Immediate Withdrawal From Afghanistan]]</span>”,October 12, 2009, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://towardfreedom.com/home/content/view/1717/106/]]</span>)</span>

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> For</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> President </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Obama, </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">…in distant lands.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">COIN destroys our foreign policy priorities—includes resources for diplomacy and climate change </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Cohen 9</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, 11/30, "Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ...", <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html]]</span>)</span>

<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Sending</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> from 30,000 …and his presidency.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Increasing credibility now is key to future warming negotiations</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Schmidt 9/13</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Jake, international climate policy director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a U.S.-based environmental action group, was director of international programs at the Center for Clean Air Policy, “Key steps on global warming need to be agreed in Mexico”, 9/13/10,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.alertnet.org/db/blogs/66373/2010/08/13-104418-1.htm]]</span>, AV)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> <span style="background: yellow;">This December, 194 </span>…and implementation steps.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> That solves warming – strong political credibility is necessary</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Atkins 9/22</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Andy, executive director of leading environmental charity Friends of the Earth, was previously policy and campaigns director at relief and development agency Tearfund, 2010, “Cancún talks may not reach a deal but there are still reasons for optimism”, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2010/sep/22/climate-deal-resistance]]</span>, AV)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> When it comes …our leaders must.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Warming is real, anthropogenic, and causes extinction</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Deibel 7</span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">there is </span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">… on this planet</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> And, CO2 emissions drastically reduce oxygen levels, causing extinction</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Tatchell 8</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> [Peter, 8/13, “The oxygen crisis: Could the decline of oxygen in the atmosphere undermine our health and threaten human survival?,” The Guardian,<span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/13/carbonemissions.climatechange]]</span>]</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> The rise in …longer <span style="background: yellow;">be sustained</span>.</span>


==2AC: Security== 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The aff should get to weigh the case against the K - Policy alternatives to Afghanistan key create change</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Kelly 10</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **-**</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> a Washington D.C.-based national security expert and director of the New Strategic Security Initiative (Lorelei, Afghanistan: Should We Stay or Should we go?”, Foreign Policy in Focus, 4/14, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.fpif.org/articles/afghanistan_should_we_stay_or_should_we_go]]</span>)</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">What I keep …</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> is the military</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Their K essentializes Heg - Some forms are morally justifiable</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Reus-Smit 4</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Christian, IR @ Australian Nat’l, American Power and World Order p. 109-115)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">The final ethical … is never right. </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> Perm do the plan and all non mutually exclusive parts of the alt.– we must engage in policy to counter threats in order to effectively rethink security</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Booth 5</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Ken Booth E H Carr Professor of the Department of International Politics at Aberystywth University 2005 Critical Security Studies and World Politics p. 272-276)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Although constructivism offers …</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> not be higher.</span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Discourse and representations don’t come first</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial;">Tuathail 96</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> (Gearoid, Department of Geography at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, Department of Geography at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), 664)</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> While theoretical debates …</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> that is human history. </span>


=Negative= 
==Hillman K== 

=== === 
**The Affirmative see themselves as heroes crusading against evil – Fighting the good fight – Their infatuation with war and its prevention is inherently dangerous and makes their impacts inevitable.**
**Hillman, ’04**

(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Post–Jungian Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the Penguin Press, Pg. 17-22)


**The affirmative’s failure to comprehend humanities lust for war makes the process of threat construction inevitable – We’ll eventually imagine another enemy that needs to be confronted because the loss of the enemy creates an existential gap in our very existence.**
**Hillman, ’04**

(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Post–Jungian Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the //Penguin Press//, Pg. 24-27)


**The alternative is to enter war and love it– Anything absent confronting our sadistic love of war will fail – We must not go to war for peace but to understand the madness of its love – Anything less than the alternative ensures wars inevitable recur making extinction inevitable**
**Hillman, ’04**

(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the //Penguin Press//,Pg. 1-10)


**Next, our framework—the psyche exists and comes first – it shapes our understanding of the world – everything depends on it** 
**Jung 06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Carl G., renowned scholar of psychoanalysis and founder of the Jung Institute, The Undiscovered Self, New American Library, New York, 81-85, AM) </span>

==AT: Perm== 

<span class="TagChar">**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11.0pt;">Peace destroys value to life – Independent DISAD to the perm </span></span>**</span>
**<span class="TagChar"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Hillman</span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">, ’0</span><span class="TagChar"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">4</span></span>**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11.0pt;">(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Penguin Press</span>//, Pg. 35-36) </span>

<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11.0pt;"> </span>

**<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Modern warfare exchanges the battlefield for distant command centers where the enemy can be eliminated with the push of a button – Using tactical nuclear weapons to disintegrate the enemy and their families – This doesn’t engage our desire to fight – Instead of hating war we should embrace it, the war’s of Ares, hand to hand combat out on the battlefield – Means the world of the affirmative and the permutation will always be worse than the alternative</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Hillman, ’04 </span>**
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11.0pt;">(James Hillman, Retired Director of the Jung Institute, Founder of Archetypical Psychology, Internationally Renowned Psychologist, Former Professor at Yale, Syracuse and the University of Chicago, “A Terrible Love of War,” Published by the //<span style="mso-bidi-font-style: normal;">Penguin Press</span>//, Pg. 90-92)</span>

==<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 11.0pt;">Historical Materialism K</span>== 

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The affirmative’s rejection of truth claims about the material role of actors and structures in history conflates all knowledge with Enlightenment rationality-this ahistorical viewpoint precludes the most relevant and politicizing modes of analysis</span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">Palmer '96</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Canada Research Chair in Canadian Labour History and Canadian Studies @ Trent University (Bryan D., "Old Positions/New Necessities: History, Class, and Marxist Metanarrative," in "In Defense of History," Ed. by E. Meiskins Wood & John Foster, p.65-72, RG)</span>

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">The alternative is historical materialism. Historical materialist analysis is epistemologically superior to post-structuralism-it allows more effective analyses of power and the mobilization of discourses </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Lapointe, 2007</span>** [Thierry. "Beyond an Historicism Without Subject: Agency and the Elusive Genealogies of State Sovereignty" Paper presented at the annual meeting of the International Studies Association 48th Annual Convention, Feb 28, 2007 <http://www.allacademic.com/meta/p180176_index.html]

**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">Our critique turns all of their impacts. The alternative is a pre-requisite to an understanding of power as contingent or the use of counterhegemonies as resistance </span>**
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;"><span style="color: black;">Palmer '96</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Canada Research Chair in Canadian Labour History and Canadian Studies @ Trent University (Bryan D., "Old Positions/New Necessities: History, Class, and Marxist Metanarrative," in "In Defense of History," Ed. by E. Meiskins Wood & John Foster, p.65-72, RG)</span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]