[[toc]]
[[mailto:elsa.givan@gmail.com|elsa.givan@gmail.com]] - Aff
jblake1954@gmail.com - Neg


=Affirmative= 
===COIN 1AC (Berkeley)=== 

====1AC – The Status Quo==== 

**As long as we pursue a nation-building strategy we will never leave Afghanistan.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Walt 10</span> (Stephen M. Walt, Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University, “Bait and switch in Afghanistan?" November 10, [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/11/10/bait_and_switch_in_afghanistan]])
McClatchy news service reports that the Obama administration is starting to back away from the president's …. Barring a new approach from the United States, does anyone think it will be any easier to change course then? 

====1AC – Plan==== 

**Plan: The United States federal government should phase down its military presence in Afghanistan to a counter-terrorism force posture.**

====1AC – The War==== 

**Political considerations make COIN execution irrational. War proponents have no foresight—even if we win in the short term, long term backlash derails US efforts.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Foust 1/24</span>/11 (Atlantic (Joshua, fellow at the American Security Project and columnist for PBS Need to Know, The Atlantic, " How Short-Term Thinking is Causing Long-Term Failure in Afghanistan ", http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2011/01/how-short-term-thinking-is-causing-long-term-failure-in-afghanistan/70048/)

On October 6, 2010, Lieutenant Colonel David Flynn, charged with clearing a tiny village in the Arghandab district of southeast Afghanistan, called in 49,200 pounds of rockets and aerial bombs, leveling it … has had some unfortunate side effects. According to a follow-up dispatch from Broadwell, U.S. trainers have struggled to stop these Afghan "police" from beating suspected "bad guys" in the street.

**And structural political flaws prevents stability – shifting away from current Afghan governing is key to prevent Countrywide separatist civil war. Engaging provincial governments is key to political reform.**
Daniel <span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Markey senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations12/3</span>/10 - senior fellow for India, Pakistan, and South Asia at the Council on Foreign Relations. He recently served as project director of the CFR-sponsored Independent Task Force on U.S. Strategy for Pakistan and Afghanistan and as the senior production advisor for the CFR.org Crisis Guide: Pakistan. 
(“Failing Afghanistan” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/12/03/failing_afghanistan?page=0,0]]) 


President Barack Obama's surprise trip to Afghanistan on Dec. 3 is just the latest sign that his administration's latest review of U.S. policy in …. Even better, it will encourage a policy that charts a new course -- one designed to turn the tide of Afghan politics in a direction that encourages the U.S. and Afghan governments to work more productively on accomplishing their shared mission. 


**The impact is __anarchy__ – try-or-die for a new strategy.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Castonguay 10</span> (David Castonguay studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, 2010, “In Praise of Warlords”, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords]]) 

Engaging local groups made up of tribes and warlords (or commanders) means according greater autonomy to them …. Instead, there is evidence that grassroots efforts, when properly supported, have a greater chance of success.

**Growing Taliban power causes separatist warfare that collapses Pakistan.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Haass 10</span> (Richard N. Haass, former Lecturer in Public Policy at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, and a research associate at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, former Director of Policy Planning for the United States Department of State and a close advisor to Secretary of State Colin Powell, candidate for the position of ambassador and he has been U.S. Coordinator for the Future of Afghanistan, former United States Special Envoy for Northern Ireland to help the peace process in Northern Ireland, for which he received the State Department's Distinguished Service Award, "We’re Not Winning. It’s Not Worth It," July 18, Newsweek, [[http://www.newsweek.com/2010/07/18/we-re-not-winning-it-s-not-worth-it.print.html]])

This idea has its drawbacks as well as appeal. A self-governing “Pashtunistan” inside Afghanistan could become a threat to the integrity of Pakistan,…, the United States should stop assuming that the two groups are one and the same and instead start talking to the Taliban to underscore how their interests differ from Al Qaeda’s.

**That draws in India, China, and Russia and causes nuclear war.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Pitt 9</span> (William, a New //York Times and// //<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-style: normal;">internationally bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence," 5/8, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” </span>//<span style="color: black;">[[http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183]]</span>) 

But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed a car packed with explosives into a jeep filled with troops today, killing five and wounding as many as 21….. The Obama administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all. 



**And, instability will spill over to Central Asia – causes conflict that draws in Russia.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Goble 10</span> (Paul, Georgian Daily, “Afghan Conflict Spreading into Central Asia, Russian Analyst Says”, 1-14, [[http://georgiandaily.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=16458&Itemid=65]]) 


Because NATO has chosen to supply its forces in Afghanistan via Central Asia and because its battles against the Taliban in the northern part of that country …… which in comparison with neighboring Uzbekistan has extremely limited military possibilities also may be drawn into the Afghan conflict as a result.” If that happens, Shustov argues, then “inevitably” Russia will be drawn in as well. 

**Central Asian conflict causes global nuclear war.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Blank 2k</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Stephen, Prof. Research at Strategic Studies Inst. @ US Army War College, “U.S. Military Engagement with Transcaucasia and Central Asia”, </span><span class="a"><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">[[http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub113.pdf|www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/pub113.pdf]]</span>) </span>

Washington’s burgeoning military-political-economic involvement seeks, inter alia, to demonstrate the U.S. ability to project military power even into this region or ….. that the other’s perceived interest or commitment is as great as its own; (4) both have the capability to inject conventional forces; and, (5) neither has willing proxies capable of settling the situation. 
**﻿**
**A shift to a light force posture solves – leads to tribal engagement and regionalism.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Castonguay 10</span> (David Castonguay studied philosophy, mathematics, and economy and worked for a financial consultant as an analyst on China. He is a contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, a project of the Institute for Policy Studies, February 17, 2010, “In Praise of Warlords”, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/in_praise_of_warlords]]) 

Finally, there is the experience of Tajikistan recently documented in Foreign Affairs. With a minimal budget,…. And that will only extend the U.S. mission beyond what the American public, the Afghan population, and even the U.S. military itself can tolerate.
**And a focused counterterror mission creates a smooth transition.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Long 10</span> (Austin Long - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, Spring, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan” Foreign Policy Research Institute) 

This insoluble problem is why the counterterrorism option is important. If even a costly effort in Afghanistan cannot fully achieve the goal against al Qaeda, ….. current posture in Afghanistan, smaller still than the forces implied in General McChrystal’s report, and tiny compared to the peak number of forces in Iraq. On the other hand, it is vastly larger than any other counterterrorism deployment.

====1AC - Hegemony==== 

<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Unipolarity is sustainable – we’re too far ahead for anyone to catch up.** </span></span>
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Brooks and Wohlforth 9</span> (Stephen G. Brooks, Prof. of Government at Dartmouth, William C. Wohlforth, Professor of Government and Chair of the Department of Government at Dartmouth, March/April, “Reshaping the World Order”, EBSCO) 

Only a few years ago, pundits were absorbed in debates about American "empire." ….. <span class="UnderlineChar">nonstate threats do not affect just the U</span>nited <span class="UnderlineChar">S</span>tates. Most nonstate actors' behavior, moreover, still revolves around influencing the decisions of states. Nongovernmental organizations typically focus on trying to get states to change their policies, and the same is true of most terrorists.

**But, the Iraq War created backlash against a hegemonic grand strategy – remaining in Afghanistan prolongs the perception of the “long war.”**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Kitfield 9</span> (James Kitfield, In 2008 the Military Reporters and Editors Association awarded Kitfield its top prize for excellence in overseas reporting for his coverage of the "surge" in Iraq the previous year, an award he also won in 2004 for his first-hand coverage of the invasion of Iraq. His reporting from Iraq in 2008 also garnered honorable mention in the Edgar A. Poe Awards given by the White House Correspondents Association for coverage of news of national significance, In 2002 Kitfield received the Stewart Alsop Media Excellence Award, sponsored by the Association of Former Intelligence Officers, for his coverage of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and follow-on events. Each year the Alsop Award recognizes a journalist who has made "an exceptional contribution to balanced and informed coverage on national security and intelligence-related issues." Kitfield also received the 2000 Edwin Hood Award for Diplomatic Correspondence given annually by the National Press Club to recognize excellence in reporting on diplomatic and foreign policy issues. Citing Kitfield's insightful writing on trans-Atlantic issues, the German Marshall Fund awarded him a Peter R. Weitz Prize and a $5,000 check in 2001 for excellence in reporting on European affairs, In 1995, Kitfield was the recipient of the Gerald R. Ford Award for Distinguished Reporting on National Defense. The $5,000 award recognizes "journalists whose standards for accuracy and insight help foster a better understanding of national defense issues." As the 1990 recipient of the Ford Award for his coverage of Desert Shield, Kitfield is the only two-time winner in the award's history. In 1987, Kitfield won the Jesse H. Neal Award for Excellence in Reporting from the Association of Business Publishers for an article on the vulnerability of the Navy's surface warships that preceded the tragic attack on the USS Stark by an Iraqi aircraft.National Journal, "Afghanistan is Obama's war now," October 16, [[http://www.govexec.com/dailyfed/1009/101609nj1.htm]]) 

As the administration reconsiders its strategy for Afghanistan, everyone understands that the United States stands at an important crossroads in the "long war" against violent Islamic extremism. And Obama's decisions are framed -- and boxed in -- …. Less was made of the fact, however, that McChrystal believes achieving even that limited goal requires a classic counterinsurgency strategy involving thousands of ground forces to secure population centers and difficult nation building by civilians.


**Withdrawal makes our grand strategy sustainable – the alternative is retrenchment.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Kupchan and Trubowitz 10</span> (Charles A., Prof. Int’l Affairs @ Georgetown, and Peter L., Assoc. Prof. of Gov’t at UT Austin, “The Illusion of Liberal Internationalism’s Revival” in International Security, Volume 35, Number 1, Summer, pp. 95-109, MUSE) 

A POLARIZED PUBLIC Congress may be leading the way when it comes to partisanship, but the public is not far behind …... Obama now faces the unenviable challenge of conducting U.S. statecraft during an era when consensus will be as elusive at home as it is globally.

**Perception of our military capacity is necessary for deterrence – great power war is only possible in a world of isolationism.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Brooks 10</span> (Stephen Brooks, Assoc. Prof. of Gov't @ Dartmouth, B.A., Economics and Politics, UC Santa Cruz, M.A., M.Phil., Ph.D., Political Science, Yale University, “Stephen Brooks on Hegemony,” July 21, lecture at the Dartmouth Debate Institute, http://www.planetdebate.com/blogs/view/1043)

Second and final point to remember about why it matters that the U.S. is the sole superpower, is that, I’d say the key takeaway punch line from the book, .... Again, it could be good, it could be bad that we have those choices, but the fact is that we do. 
**﻿**
**Heg is key to economic growth and dispelling conflicts around the globe. The alternative is world war.**
<span style="font-size: 13.0pt;">Kagan 1/24</span>/2011 (Robert, contributing editor to The Weekly Standard and a senior fellow in foreign policy at the Brookings Institution, The Weekly Standard, “The Price of Power,” http://www.weeklystandard.com/articles/price-power_533696.html?page=1)

Today the international situation is also one of high risk. …. • The terrorists who would like to kill Americans on U.S. soil constantly….. . This is a great if recurring illusion, the idea that you can pull a leg out from under a table and the table will not fall over. 



===Sex Workers 1AC (Alta)=== 


====[[#_GoBack]]1AC - Opaque Sexual War==== 
Contention One is the Opaque Sexual War

**Actions by the United States and South Korea to further prostitution in the status quo prove any actions in the status quo are purely cosmetic.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sang-Hun 9</span></span> (Choe, January 7, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/08/world/asia/08korea.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1]], “Ex-Prostitutes Say South Korea and U.S. Enabled Sex Trade Near Bases”, New York Times)

South Korea has railed for years against …. but the government’s and the U.S. military’s.”

**And the USFG isn’t leaving anytime soon – South Korea wants our presence for military exercises – all their evidence doesn’t take into account recent shelling**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">VOA 12/1</span></span> (US, South Korea End Joint Maneuvers, Discuss Future Exercises, Voice of America, [[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/asia/US-South-Korea-End-Naval-Exercises--111104399.html]]) 

As the U.S. and South Korean joint naval exercise wraps up, … United Nations for the Security Council to respond to Pyongyang's attacks or its new nuclear activities.

**After the great liberation of Korea from Japanese imperialism cold war tactics split the nation into to lands distanced from each other in terms of political super power alignment based of off lines of longitude and latitude. The north went to the soviets and the south to the Americans-but only one got the benefit of a constant occupation of an alien military. In its quest for global dominance and red deterrence the United States built up a number of bases and military facilities in South Korea. Along with this build camp another increase, not in arms but in the objectified tools of sexual pleasure for the bodies on the ground.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Soh 2008</span></span> [Sarah Chunghee, Professor of Anthropology at San Francisco State University, “Military prostitution and women’s sexual labour in Japan and Korea,” The comfort Women, 49-52]
“Camp town ‘comfort women’” in Korea 
After its liberation from Japanese rule in August 1945, … The Yun KuM-I murder case is one of the very that resulted in the criminal serving his sentence in a Korean prison. 

**And, military bases and troops in South Korea inherently result in rape and other forms of violence against sex workers.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirk 2008</span></span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, [[http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific]])

Violence against women is pervasive at U.S. bases in the region and in prevailing military culture and training…... by legal, political, economic, and social structures.

**This strategy of military stationing on foreign territories is the foundation of a pervasive militarism that results in racism, sexism, sexual violence, rape, and environmental destruction.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirk 2008</span></span> (Gwyn, Prof Women’s Studies @ Antioch & Hamilton Universities & Founder of East Asia-US-Puerto Rico Women's Network Against Militarism, “Gender and U.S. Bases in Asia-Pacific”, March 14, http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific)

The power dynamics of militarism in the Asia-Pacific region rely on dominance and subordination…… – violence against women and girls, violation of local people’s self-determination, and abuse and contamination of the environment – that reinforce gender stereotypes.

====[[#_Toc276621943]]1AC - Misery Business==== 

**Contention Two is the Misery Business**

**Prostitution and brothels are integral to US military bases in Korea, culminating in sexual exploitation**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Enriquez 1999</span></span> (Jean, Director of the Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in the Asia Pacific, November,
“Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, [[http://www.catw-ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/]])

The grave labour situation that migrant women find themselves in, compounded by …… This is obviously in collusion with local and foreign businesses that make profits from the “entertainment industry,’ and local governments that similarly earn from the lucrative R & R business.

**South Korea is a central hub and transit point for sex trafficking in the broader Asia-Pacific region**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Statemaster Encyclopedia 2006</span></span> (“Encyclopedia > Prostitution in South Korea”, [[http://www.statemaster.com/encyclopedia/Prostitution-in-South-Korea]])

Prostitution in South Korea is a large illegal industry. The Ministry of Gender and Family Equality estimated that it comprises over 4% of South Korea's GDP, with revenue exceeding $22 billion. Prostitution ranges from streetwalkers in red light districts to expensive "room salons" for private parties. ….. a number of them claim to have been tricked or forced.

**Prostitution is inseparable from sex trafficking. Trafficking causes physical, psychological, and emotional abuse**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Enriquez 1999</span></span> (Jean, Director of the Coalition Against the Trafficking of Women in the Asia Pacific, November,
“Filipinas in Prostitution around U.S. Military Bases in Korea: A Recurring Nightmare”, [[http://www.catw-ap.org/resources/speeches-papers/filipinas-in-prostitution-around-us-military-bases-in-korea-a-recurring-nightmare/]])

CATW asserts that trafficking in women is inseparable with the issue of prostitution ….. In Korea, the Philippines and elsewhere, the women are viewed as commodities to be bought, and being Asians, they are certainly perceived as less than human.

**And, violent militarized prostitution affects minors as well – this corrupting practice must be ended to provide any real justice for the countless under-aged girls who have been violated.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chang 01</span></span> (Emily, J.D. Candidate at the Notre Dame Law School, “Engagement Abroad: Enlisting Men, U.S. Military Policy and the Sex Industry”, Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics, and Public Policy, Lexis Nexis)

Lita began her "career" as a prostitute working for a bar, called The Penthouse, in Olongapo. ….. The U.S. government did not give any compensation for the wrongs the U.S. soldiers committed." 

**Sex workers forced into military prostitution are rejected and stigmatized by their families and country – justifies their abuse.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kirk and Francis 00</span></span> (Gwyn and Carolyn Bowen, both are founding members of the East Asia-US Women’s Network Against Militarism, “Redefining Security: Women Challenge U.S. Military Policy and Practice in East Asia”, Berkeley Women’s Law Journal) 

These women who, forced by poverty and lack of meaningful alternatives, …... For many people in the host communities, military prostitution is a national disgrace.


====[[#_Toc276621944]]1AC - Plan==== 
**Thus the plan:**

**The United States Federal Government should withdraw its military presence from the South Korea.**

====[[#_Toc276621945]] 1AC - <span style="font-size: 18px;">Frames of War</span>==== 
**Contention 3 is Frames of War**

**Prostitution is fueled exclusively by US military presence – withdrawing solves.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dujisin 09</span></span> [Zoltan Dujisin, Jul 7, 2009, “Prostitution Thrives with U.S. Military Presence”, IPS]

With the presence of U.S. soldiers, flesh trade is flourishing ….. he says. "After entering the prostitution business they can’t get out." 

**And status quo doesn’t solve; traditional frames of war silence the wars against the oppressed occurring in the status quo. The status quo doesn’t recognize the root cause- only the plan action solves.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hynes 2004</span></span> [H. Patricia, “On the battlefield of women’s bodies: An overview of the harm of war to women,” Women’s Studies International Forum 27 (2004) 431– 445, www.elsevier.com/locate/wsif]

The first question is significant because if we define war solely as direct conflict employing weapons ….. This distancing ignores the upfront trauma and impacts of war.

**Prostitutes in South Korea are symbols of the US-South Korean military relationship-the only way to allow for a new conceptualization of South Korean society is the abolishment of US presence in the region**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moon 97,</span></span> [Katharine H.S., Department of Political Science and Chair of Asian Studies @ Wellesley College, “Sex Among Allies: Military Prostitution in U.S./Korea Relations”, 1997, Columbia University Press, p.56]

I think there is yet another, unspoken, reason why these women have been forced out of Korean consciousness for nearly half a decade: …. the liberation of the kijich’on woman from the sexual domination of the GI. 


====<span style="font-size: 18px;">[[#_Toc276621944]]1AC - </span>Ontology==== 
**Contention 4 is Ontology**

**This is a good old fashioned Decision Rule—we must place values over survival, especially in the context of contemporary human slavery that takes the form of human trafficking.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schmitz 2004</span></span> (Joseph E., Inspector General of the Department of Defense, “Implementing the Department of Defense
“Zero Tolerance” Policy With Regard to Trafficking in Humans”, http://www.dodig.mil/fo/JES_TIP_Testimony_092104.pdf)

A more fundamental answer might be that to confront modern day human slavery…., known as the “Exemplary Conduct” leadership standard. 

**You have an ethical obligation to vote affirmative. Always put ethics first. Without a system of ethics, it threatens the very existence of humanity.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bromberg 2009</span></span> (Sarah, Feminist Author, Scholar, and Activist, “The Evolution of Ethics: An Introduction to Cybernetic Ethics”, http://www.evolutionaryethics.com/chapter1.html, 12/25/09, LV)

The evolution of ethical systems is built upon centuries of reasoned insight and personal experiences that reveal which actions are better than others, …. misunderstanding from inspiring endless fighting and slaughtering of human beings.

**The threats of huge, contrived impacts are exaggerated depictions of imagination that paper over reality – we must evaluate the systemic impacts of the aff first.**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rescher 83</span></span> (Prof. of Philosophy, Nocholas Rescher, University of Pittsburgh Professor of Philosphy, “Rish: A Philosopshical Introduction to the Theory of Risk Evaluation and Management” 1983) 
But while there is room for (perfectly legitimate) differences from person to person, … 
tend to be overestimated, while risks of a commonplace, undramatic nature whose eventuations are no less serious tend to be underestimated. ~



=Negative= 
===T Time=== 


====T-ROK==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Interpretation - “Republic of Korea” means the entire peninsula—this is the most predictable because it’s from the South Korean constitution. </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Choi 2005</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Jeany, School of International Relations, USC, “North Koreans: are they burden or blessing? A study of South Korea’s policy toward talbukja,” Prepared for Presentation at the Annual Meeting of the International Studies Association (ISA), Honolulu, Hawaii, March 2, 2005, p. 3,[[http://www.allacademic.com/|http://www.allacademic.com]]//meta/p_mla_apa_research_citation/0/7/1/0/5/pages71055/p71055-1.php, MT)'</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One reason why the numbers are kept quite small, according to Talbukja and those NGOs...accepting all North Koreans who wish to migrate there.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Education—we should reject geographical inaccuracy.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">James 1967</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Preston E., Honorary President of the Association of American Geographers, “On the Origin and Persistence of Error in Geography,” Annals of the Association of American Geographers, March)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">ABSTRACT. Human error concerning the geography of the earth has been recurrent throughout historic</span> time...
on the present errors of inadequate hypotheses may be built the progress of geography in the future.

====T-Noncombat==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Presence is distinct from combat.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Thomason et al 2002 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[James S. Thomason, (Project Leader) - with Institute for Defense Analyses, "Transforming US Overseas Military Presence: Evidence and Options for DoD," July, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA415954]] | VP]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WHAT IS OVERSEAS MILITARY PRESENCE? Our working definition of US overseas military presence is...capable US military assets such that they are likely to be available sooner rather than later in case an evolving security operation or contingency should call for them.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T-Substantial</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DOD defines “substantially reduce” as 50%.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 120%;">DOD 96</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Department of Defense Regulation, Number 5000.2R, Change 3 cp)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DoD Components may not terminate or substantially reduce participation...total funding or quantities in the latest President’s Budget for that portion of the joint program funded by the Component seeking to reduce its participation.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Presence refers to personnel stationed in a region.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 120%;">The Oxford Essential Dictionary of the U.S. Military 2</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (by Oxford University Press, Inc. All rights reserved, republished and cited as “US Military Dictionary” at: http://www.answers.com/topic/presence)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US Military Dictionary: presence n.a group of people...maintain a presence in the </span>region.

===Disads=== 

====SKFTA DA (Berkeley)==== 
<span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">**Republicans are ready to vote – SKFTA will pass both chambers with bipartisan support** </span>
<span style="font-size: 110%;">__VOA News 2/9__</span><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> (“Officials See Possible Progress on Long Delayed US Free Trade Pacts”, </span><span style="font-weight: normal;">[[http://www.voanews.com/english/news/economy-and-business/Possible-Progress-on-Long-Delayed-US-Free-Trade-Pacts-115664699.html]]</span><span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">)</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">President Obama’s top trade negotiator says the administration will submit the South Korea Free Trade Agreement to Congress in coming weeks...</span></span></span>Reid tells VOA that votes will be scheduled in the upper chamber once the Obama administration presents the trade pacts to Congress.

**Political capital key to passage**
__Foreign Policy 2/11__<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> (“Obama’s Bets on free trade: inside the deals behind the deals”, </span>[[http://eurasia.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/02/11/obamas_bets_on_free_trade_what_are_the_deals_behind_the_deals]]<span style="font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">) </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk [[http://thehill.com/business-a-lobbying/143145-kirk-demurs-on-timeline-for-trade-deals|__told__]] the House Ways and Means Committee on Feb. 9 that the Obama administration ...</span></span>Obama now officially endorses the deal and will send it to Capitol Hill for ratification soon

**Key to Global Free Trade**
__<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cooper and Manvin 7</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (William and Mark, Specialists in International Trade and Finance and Asian Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Congressional Research Service, “The Proposed South Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA),” [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33435.pdf]])</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">In terms of broader U.S. trade policy, an FTA with Korea would build...</span></span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 16px;">the FTAs that the United States has entered into since NAFTA account for very little trade and yield relatively little in commercial benefits.</span>


**Reduces the rate and destructiveness of all conflicts**
__<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griswold 5</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (Daniel, “Peace on earth? Try free trade among men,” 12-29-2005, http://www.freetrade.org/node/282) // _ </span>

<span style="font-size: 90%;">Buried beneath the daily stories about car bombs and insurgents is an underappreciated but comforting fact during this Christmas season...</span>The welcome decline of armed conflicts in the past few decades indicates that free trade also comes with its own peace dividend.




=====Afghanistan Link===== 
**Withdrawal now would be political suicide – Obama would be pegged as weak on defense**
__<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kapur</span></span>,__ <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">__7-5__-</span></span><span class="UnderlineChar">10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sahil, THE WASHINGTON INDEPENDENT, National News in Context “As Afghan War Drags On, Some Democrats Threaten Revolt, Votes Last Week Revealed Democratic Growing Schism.” [[http://washingtonindependent.com/90906/as-afghan-war-drags-on-some-democrats-threaten-revolt]], accessed 7-16-10)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Generally, members of your own party support your foreign policy</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span></span>has even begun to back away from its promise to begin winding America’s involvement in the war next July.



=====Japan Link===== 
<span class="tagChar0">**Withdrawal from Japan drains capital – massive backlash to complete U-turn in strategy** </span>
__<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ferguson, ’09</span></span>__ (Niall, American Interest, [[http://www.the-american-interest.com/ai2/article.cfm?Id=335&MId=16]])

So much for the American predicament<span style="font-size: 110%;">...</span>Coming from a man who wants to restart mainstream debate on American grand strategy, that is pretty rich. 


=====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">South Korea Link</span>===== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan’s massively unpopular – Congress, Pentagon, and South Korea lobbies oppose</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Harrison 2002</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [Selig S., Senior Scholar – Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars and Director of the Asia Program – Center for International Policy, “Korean Endgame: A Strategy for Reunification and U.S. Disengagement,” p. 180-182]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Why has the presence of U.S. ground forces in South Korea remained politically inviolate...the nine other "CinCs" with re­gional and functional commands have their headquarters in the United States.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Japan Rearm</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Japan won’t go nuclear in the status quo—the alliance reassures them, but changing conditions cause them to get the Bomb by next Tuesday.</span>**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Yoshihara and Holmes 9</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Toshi and James R., associate professors of strategy at the U.S. Naval War College, “Thinking About the Unthinkable: Tokyo’s Nuclear Option”) cp</span></span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Will Japan go nuclear? Doubtful—but what if it does? It is possible to envision circumstances...Beijing not onlymore control over its ownmaritime security but alsomore control over the maritime communications on which the resource-dependent Japanese economy relies. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal of US military presence from East Asia would trigger Japanese nuclearization.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Robert </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Lieber,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> professor of government and international affairs at Georgetown university, the American era: power and strategy for the 21st century, p.167, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">2005</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An American withdrawal from East Asia could very well result in a Japanese decision to build a more robust conventional military capacity...Britain and France from Japan's used civilian nuclear reactor fuel and then returned to Japan. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Extinction.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ellen </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Ratner,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> White House correspondent and bureau chief for the Talk Radio News service, 1/17/</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">2003.</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [[http://www.wnd.com/news/article.asp?article_id=30541]].</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This would be a disaster. Not only would it trigger a new, intra-Asian arms race...the old Cold War world, where there were only two armed camps, would look like kid stuff.</span>

====Deterrence DA==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. commitment to Asia increasing</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Gates 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">, (6/5/10, Robert M., “International Institute For Strategic Studies (Shangri-La--Asia Security)” [[http://www.defense.gov/speeches/speech.aspx?speechid=1483]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When I last stood before you, I did so only a few months after a new administration had taken office. President Obama’s policies toward this region were still evolving...potential adversaries alike of the credibility of U.S. security commitments through our ability to defend against the full range of potential threats.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal causes North Korean invasion of South Korea </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Huessy 03</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> – Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states (8/13/2003, Peter, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560, )</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, Carpenter has long advocated a unilateral withdrawal of our U.S. forces from the Republic of Korea, under the g of arguing that such a reduction of U.S. forces...Japan would become a realistic weapon in the hands of the PRC, not dissimilar to a blockade of Taiwan by the PRC portrayed by Patrick Robinson in Kilo Class.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Withdrawal causes Japan prolif and turns the China advantage</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Dao, 03</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html,)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Deciding if now is the time depends on how well the United States is able to project power across the Pacific,..."Mind-sets in Asia are profoundly traditional," he said. "They calculate political will by the numbers of soldiers, ships and airplanes that they see in the region."</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">East Asian prolif causes global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Cirincione, 2000</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia, where proliferation pressures are already building more quickly than anywhere else in the world...bringing regional and global economic and political instability and, perhaps, the first combat use of a nuclear weapon since 1945</span>

====Senkaku DA==== 
==== ==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China’s preparing to invade Taiwan—the Senkaku Islands will be the flashpoint.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Hutton 7</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Will, columnist, author and Chief Executive, he is a governor of London School of Economics, a visiting professor at the University of Manchester Business School and the University of Bristol, a visiting fellow at Mansfield College Oxford, [[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2007/jan/21/comment.china]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China is the second largest military power in the world; it spends more than Britain, Germany and France combined...Asia is a powder keg of competing nationalisms, battles for scarce energy resources and unresolved mutual enmities.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aggressive basing structure in Japan is key to containment and deter conflict.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Jitsuro 10</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> - president of Tama University, as well as president of the Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute and chairman of the Japan Research Institute (Terashima, 3/15/10, The Asia-Pacific Journal, "The Will and Imagination to Return to Common Sense: Toward a Restructuring of the US-Japan Alliance," [[http://japanfocus.org/-Terashima-Jitsuro/3398]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Figure 3: Funabashi Yoichi, Editor in Chief, Asahi Shimbun [Funabashi is a visiting fellow and chief diplomatic correspondent and columnist for the Japanese newspaper Asahi Shimbun]...This is what we need to ask ourselves.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Ogura and Oh 97</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Toshimaru Ogura and Ingyu Oh, Professors of Economics and Political Economy at Waiikato University, MONTHLY REVIEW, April, 1997, p. 30)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">North Korea, South Korea, and Japan have achieved quasi-or virtual nuclear armament...any hot conflict among those countries would threaten to escalate into global conflagration.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterplans</span>=== 


====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Borders PIC</span>==== 
**Text: The federal government should [plan].**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The logic of territorial geopolitics is constructed and constitutive – it underlies a system of control and spatialization. This is not merely an academic concern, geographical language when deployed in the service of politics has unique ramifications and political effects on the construction of knowledge.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Dalby 00</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Professor of Political Science and Chair of International Governance at the International Studes Association, CIAONet 41th Annual Convention of the ISA )</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Geopolitics is a term now commonly used to refer to great power rivalries and the geographical dimensions of global political power...more deeply problematic than earlier dismissals of geopolitical reasoning on simple ideological grounds understood (Ó Tuathail, 1996).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The affirmative’s invocation of the nation-state is neither objective nor benign – their uncritical acceptance of the modern geopolitical map effaces historical violence and legitimates the authority of violent cartographies.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Shapiro 97</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Michael J. Shapiro, Prof. Poli Sci @ U of Hawaii, “Violent Cartographies,” pp. 15-6)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Michel Foucault put the matter of geographic partisanship succinctly when he noted that "territory is no doubt a geographical notion...Representing the structure of approved sovereignties, it is the primary force determining recognized political subjectivity.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The impact is global and unending warfare – the strategic deployment of territorial nationalism is the root cause of armed conflict.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Shapiro 97</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Michael J. Shapiro, Prof. Poli Sci @ U of Hawaii, “Violent Cartographies,” pp. 141-2)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As I showed in my reading of Clausewitz in chapter 2, the outward aiming gaze of strategic thinkers, who seem preoccupied with the logistics ...history-writing impetus for those who wish to sustain the practice and make it the primary mode of national self-recognition.</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">China Conditions CP</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States Federal Government should [plan] contingent upon the People’s Republic of China’s reprimand of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea for their attack upon the Republic of Korea. </span>**
**﻿**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And China would say yes – solves new policy and allows China to acquiesce and develop a new policy for its “spoiled child” </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">WSJ 11/30</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (China Seeks North Korea Solution, Wall Street Journal, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748703994904575646572907080084.html?mod=WSJASIA_hpp_LEFTTopStories]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The first batch of cables, released Sunday, contained allegations that China brushed off U.S. requests...people want to change the policy, but the traditional school is winning," said Cai Jian, a Korean Studies professor at Fudan University in Shanghai.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">We’ll isolate two net benefits:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1) China joins the scene - solves every North Korean impact you can name – secession politics, proliferation, and North Korean aggression </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Sung-soo 12/2</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Park, Visiting Professor of Media Studies at Myongji University, [Viewpoint] China is North Korea’s enabler, Korea Joongang Daily, [[http://joongangdaily.joins.com/article/view.asp?aid=2929097]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">At the time of the sinking of the Cheonan, China did not live up to international expectations that it would exercise influence on North Korea...apologizing to the family members of the dead and making guarantees that provocative actions will not be repeated. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2) North Korea will pocket the plan – unilateral concessions reinforce brinksmanship - kills deterrence and turns case </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Horowitz 5</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Michael Horowitz, Assistant Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania, PhD in the Department of Government at Harvard University, former postdoctoral fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard University, former Sidney R. Knafel Fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, former predoctoral fellow at the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard, former Research Assistant in the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, former consultant for the Department of Defense, “Who’s Behind That Curtain? Unveiling Potential Leverage over Pyongyang” in The Washington Quarterly, Winter, http://www.twq.com/05winter/docs/05winter_horowitz.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">U.S. military leverage theoretically functions both in a negative fashion, as U.S. deployments and commitments deter North Korean military ...Pyongyang that it has the ability to forestall resolution of the nuclear issue with indefinite demands.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Cirincione 2k</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> (Joseph Cirincione, Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, in Foreign Policy, Spring, JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The blocks would fall quickest and hardest in Asia, where proliferation pressures are already building more quickly...bringing regional and global economic and political instability and, perhaps, the first combat use of a nuclear weapon since 1945.</span>

====Courts CP==== 
=====Generic===== 
**Text: The Supreme Court of the United States should, in a narrow and limited ruling on an as-applied challenge, hold that [plan] on the grounds that [insert] violates the rules of necessity and proportionality.**


**A. Reduce means to quantifiably decrease**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">__American Heritage 9__</span></span> (4th Edition, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/reduce)

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">to bring down to a smaller</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;"> extent...</span>reduce one's weight by 10 pounds.

**B. Courts can’t reduce – they have no statutory authority.**
__<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Treanor and Sperling 93</span></span>__ (William Michael, Associate Professor of Law @ Fordham University, and Gene B., Deputy Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, December, Prospective Overruling and the Revival of "unconstitutional" Statutes, 93 Colum. L. Rev. 1902, Columbia Law Review)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">The most noted instance in which the revival issue was resolved by a court</span> ...<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">that </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">if the decision is reversed the statute is valid from its first effective date</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">.</span>

**C. The court can find presence illegal – the Caroline doctrine prohibits disproportionate use of force.**
__<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rogoff and Collins 90</span></span>__ (Martin A. Rogoff, Professor of Law, University of Maine School of Law, BA Cornell University, MA University of California (Berkeley), LLB Yale University, and Edward Collins, Professor of Political Science at University of Maine, BA, MA, Marshall University, PhD Emory University, "Caroline Incident and the Development of International Law," 16 Brook. J. Int'l L. 493, HEIN)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A. Development of the Caroline Doctrine </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">British officials defended the destruction of the Caroline Doctrine...</span>and the forcible protective action was confined</span> solely to protecting the nationals from injury<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (</span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">proportionality</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">).</span>

**Court decisions are insulated.**

__<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rosenberg 92</span></span>__ (Gerald N. Rosenberg, University of Chicago political science and law professor, JD University of Michigan, PhD Yale University, "Judicial Independence and the Reality of Political Power," in The Review of Politics, Vol. 54, No. 3, Special Issue on Public Law, Summer, pp. 369-398, JSTOR)

<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">The independence of the federal judiciary from political control is a hallmark of the American legal system...</span></span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">To laypeople, lawyers, and social scientists alike, judicial independence is central to American government</span>

**The counterplan rules immediately, but controversial opinions aren’t released until June.**

__<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">USCourts.gov 10</span></span>__ ("U.S. Supreme Court Procedures," date last modified, [[http://www.uscourts.gov/EducationalResources/ConstitutionResources/SeparationOfPowers/USSupremeCourtProcedures.aspx]])


<span style="font-size: 6pt;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">All opinions of the Court are</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt;">, typically, be </span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">handed down </span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">by the last day</span></span><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of the Court's term<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow';">...</span></span></span></span>some <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">controversial opinions</span><span class="UnderlineChar">, even if heard in October, may not be handed down until the </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">last day of the term</span>.

====<span style="font-size: small; line-height: 12px;">﻿Japan</span>==== 
**Text: The Supreme Court of the United States should, in a narrow and limited ruling on an as-applied challenge, hold that section 7 of the Endangered Species Act mandates [plan] on that grounds that the National Environmental Policy Act extends extraterritorially to [insert].**


There’s precedent for reductions in Japanese bases – U.S. environmental law has extraterritorial authority.
__<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Schoenbaum 9</span></span>__<span style="font-weight: normal;"> (Lauren Jensen Schoenbaum, J.D., University of Texas School of Law, “The Okinawa Dugong and the Creative Application of U.S. Extraterritorial Environmental Law,” Texas International Law Journal, no.443, April 2009, [[http://www.tilj.org/journal/44/schoenbaum/Schoenbaum%2044%20Tex%20Intl%20LJ%20457.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Assuming the intent of U.S. environmental law is to protect only domestic wildlife and maintain a presumption against extraterritorial application of the vast majority of environmental law...</span><span class="UnderlineChar">but it is an initial indication of the farreaching possibilities of such protection</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

====Consult NATO==== 
**Text: The United States Federal Government should propose that it [plan] to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for**
**binding consultation. The United States Federal Government should support this proposal during consultation. The**
**United States Federal Government should abide by the results of consultation. We’ll clarify.**

Failure to consult about nuclear policy changes damage the alliance
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Kulesa 2009</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">, Lukasz Kulesa is an analyst at the Polish Institute of International Affairs ( PISM), March 2009, “Reduce US Nukes in Europe to Zero, and Keep NATO Strong (and Nuclear). A View from Poland.,” http://www.pism.pl/zalaczniki/Strategic_File_7.pdf</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Assuring the cohesion of the Alliance when such a change is agreed upon would remain...</span></span></span>
<span style="display: inline !important;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">the US is weakening its commitment to NATO by initiating changes in the nuclear strategy </span></span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar"><span style="font-weight: normal;">without properly consulting its allies</span></span><span style="font-weight: normal;">.</span></span>



**Collapse of NATO causes multiple escalatory nuclear war**s
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Duffield 94</span></span> (John Duffield, Assistant Professor of Government and Foreign Affairs at the University of Virginia, Political Science Quarterly 109:5, p. 766-7)




<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Initial analyses of NATO's future prospects overlooked at least three <span class="UnderlineChar">important factors...</span> </span>
<span style="display: inline !important; font-weight: normal;"><span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the consequences of which would likely be even more devastating than those of the past, given the existence of nuclear weapons</span></span> </span>



**Genuine consultation spills over to a new strategic dialogue that’s key to avert a collapse in relations**
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Serfaty 2005</span></span> (//The Vital Partnership// p. 14 

<span style="display: inline !important; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">, </span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Simon, </span>
<span style="display: inline !important; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">senior professor in international politics at Old Dominion)</span>








<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow'; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">Thus faced with a crisis of international legitimacy coming on top of a crisis of structural legitimacy...</span>
<span style="display: inline !important; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; margin-left: 0in; margin-right: 0in; margin-top: 0in;"><span style="font-weight: normal;">as well as the history of its relations with Europe. Not acting as urgently now would not only be a mistake, it would also be irresponsible</span><span style="font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">.</span></span>






===Kritiks=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Security</span>==== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A. There is no objective security threat, rather there is the construction of an event as a security threat. The affirmative’s securitizing strategy delimits policy options and produces the very results they try to avoid.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ronnie</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Lipschutz</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">, Director – Politics PhD Program, UC Santa Cruz, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">1998</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">. “On Security” p. 7</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Conceptualizations of security--from which follow policy and practice--are to be found in discourses of security...nonetheless remain fraught with contradictions, as the chapters in this volume make clear. </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B. Expansion of the system of security result in an inevitable cycle of violence and mass conflict.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Der Derian,</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Associate Professor of Political Science at University of Massachusetts Amherst, </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">1998 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(James, On Security, Columbia University Press, Chapter 2: “The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard,” Electronic Version at Columbia International Affairs Online, subscription service, http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz.html, Accessed Sept 7 2005)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The rapidity of change in the international system, as well as the inability of international theory to make sense of that change...until the 1992 Presidential election went into full swing--"The enemy is unpredictability. The enemy is instability." [[#txt2]][[http://www.ciaonet.org/book/lipschutz/lipschutz12.html#note2|2]] </span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. The alternative is to criticize and vote neg- We must refuse the language of security: our discursive dissent can exploit the aporias of security and create an ethical world.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">Burke</span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">, School of Political Science and International Studies at University of Queensland,</span> <span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 120%;">2002 </span><span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Anthony, “Aporias of Security,” Alternatives: Global, Local, Political 1(27), Infotrac OneFile, Accessed Sept 7 2005)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Refusing Security It is perhaps easy to become despondent, but as countless struggles for freedom, justice, and social transformation...the imagination of an other that never returns to the same. It would be to ask if there is a world after security, and what its shimmering possibilities might be.</span>

===2NRs=== 
====//USC//==== 
Brophy KW - COIN 
2NR - Debt Commission + START

Damien FG - Futenma
2NR - Alliance CP (See CPS PY) + Senkaku DA

Loyola OP - Drones
2NR - T - Substantial 

====//Alta//==== 
Lone Peak LH - South Korea
2NR - Condition on China reprimanding NK

Bingham GT - South Korea
2NR - Borders PIC + Security K 

Desert Vista CP - Japan Prostitutes/Environment
2NR - Borders PIC + Security K 

Lone Peak CW - South Korea
2NR - START + Case

====//Golden Desert//==== 
West LS - South Korea 
2NR - Courts CP + SKFTA Good

Westminster HP - Afghanistan COIN
2NR - Borders PIC

Juan Diego MH - South Korea
2NR - Borders PIC

GBN SS - Afghanistan COIN
2NR - Delay CP + SKFTA Good

====//Stanford (Elsa was giving the 2NRs)//==== 
Sunny Hills AC - Bagram 
2NR - SKFTA + Case

Loyola OP - Afghanistan Drones
2NR - Borders PIC

St. Marks BM - South Korea
2NR - SKFTA + Case

Pine Crest BL - Japan Navy
2NR - Borders PIC

====//Berkeley//==== 
Heritage Hall HK - Afghanistan Security
2NR - Borders PIC

GDS KL - Okinawa Biopower 
2NR - Senkaku DA, Case, Framework

Pace ES - South Korea 
2NR - SKFTA DA, Deterrence DA, Case