[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
<span style="text-align: justify;">**__Contention 1: The Dilemma__**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**The status quo is in state of military tension between the north and the south deterrence and realist ideology has not brought us the salvation it promised** </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Blieker 05** (ROLAND BLEIKER Ph.D. in International Relations __Divided Korea Toward a Culture of Reconciliation__ 2005 pg. xxvii-xxviii JDEF)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Korea is a </span>persistently … lasting <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">security</span> to the region__.</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**The bombings were misunderstood media hype North Korea was only reacting to U.S. and South Korea action**</span>
<span style="margin-top: 0.1pt; text-align: justify;">**World Tribune, 11/25.** Yossef Bodansky, Global Information System U.S. missed North Korea peace signal, delivers weak response//<span class="MsoHyperlink">http://www.worldtribune.com/worldtribune/WTARC/2010/ea_nkorea1168_11_25.asp</span> )
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">In ordering the shelling</span>__ … **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">resolved to not tolerate what they interpreted as a major insult</span>__**__.__</span>
**Thus the plan: The United States Federal Government should substantially reduce its occupation in South Korea excluding the 129th medical detachment**

<span style="text-align: justify;">**__Contention 2 War is hell__**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
=<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Argument A: Identity </span></span>= 
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**The cold war is over but the new world order begins. The Russians are no longer the enemy. We have a new ‘John G’ this time it is North Korea. This is the constructed world that makes us feel secure while the same time causes conflict and precludes peaceful solutions**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Blieker 05** (ROLAND BLEIKER PHD. in International Relations __Divided Korea Toward a Culture of Reconciliation__ 2005 pg. 52-55 JDEF)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">The conflict pattern had been set long… __nuclear weapons__ __program, fictitious or not.__
</span>
**<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The US projection of North Korea that relies on it as a source of danger and instability creates a orientalist discourse between the evil “them” and good “us” that generates the very threats it tries to avoid. </span>**
**__<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Bleiker</span>__** <span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">20**__05__**</span> <span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">(Roland, Ph.D in international relations from the Australian National University, currently is a Professor of international relations at the University of Queensland. “Divided Korea” 2005 p. 36-38, MT) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I will pay particular attention the role of the United States, for nothing about the past and present dilemmas on…**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> generates threats in order to improve its negotiation position</span>__** __and force its opponent into submission.__</span>
**This identity fuels the conflict, our inquiry of identity is key to understanding security and the nature of identities**
**__<span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Bleiker</span>__** <span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">20**__05__**</span> <span style="color: #141413; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">(Roland, Ph.D in international relations from the Australian National University, currently is a Professor of international relations at the University of Queensland. “Divided Korea” 2005 p. 115-116, MT) </span>
T__he first task consisted of presenting …__ without being challenged by the other side.
**Our presence in NK creates destroys ethics because we demonize their identity which makes peace impossible, the aff is necessary to rescue ethics proper**
**__Bleiker 2k1__** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">prof IR @ U Queensland Australia</span>  <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Roland, “Identity and Security in Korea” The Paci.c Review, Vol. 14 No. 1 2001: 121–148 http://unpan1.un.org/intradoc/groups/public/documents/APCITY/UNPAN012790.pdf) </span>
Dialogue alone cannot solve the problem of divided…in virtually all aspects of Korean security politics. 

**A focusing on “violent” identities will cause a manifestation of extinction**
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Dillon and Campbell <span style="text-transform: uppercase;">92</span>** (Michael, Lancaster and David, Newcastle, The Political Subject of Violence, p. 163-164)</span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white; text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; color: black;">This interpretation of violence</span><span style="color: black;"> as constitutive …</span> the not-yet-fully-eradicated residence of pre-modern barbarity. It was a legitimate resident in the house of modernity; indeed, one who would not be at home in any other house'.10__</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">This self/other identity the root cause of genocide</span>**
[[#_Toc288394671]]<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">00</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Karsten, UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs, Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” </span>[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf%22%20%5Cl%20%22page=2|__http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2__]]<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">The problem with societal securitization …behalf of the natural</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 6pt;"> and eternal, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">where truth is never questioned. </span>__</span>
=<span style="text-align: left;"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Argument B: Hypocrisy </span></span>= 
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Our ‘don’t back down’ disposition towards Korea is one-sided and epistemologically flawed only through recognizing our threatening nature can we stop miscalcuation**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Blieker 05** (ROLAND BLEIKER PHD. in International Relations __Divided Korea Toward a Culture of Reconciliation__ 2005 pg. 48-52 JDEF)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__U.S. nuclear threats toward Pyongyang … **<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">A new nuclear crisis started to take hold of the Korean peninsula</span>.**__</span>
<span style="margin-top: 0.1pt; text-align: justify;">**Enmity motivated by security will cause extinction. The threats they name aren’t real but are invented by leaders manipulating us.** </span>
<span style="margin-top: 0.1pt; text-align: justify;">**__Mack__** 19**__88__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (John E., M.D. an American psychiatrist, writer, and professor at Harvard Medical School. He was a Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer. “The Enemy System” 1988. </span>__<span style="color: #000099; font-size: 7pt;">http://www.johnemackinstitute.org/passport/enemysystem.html</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, MT)</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__The threat of nuclear annihilation…__each depends on the other, and the communication of this reality must become a major focus of our educational system</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Security discourse destroys value to life.</span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Dillon & Reid</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> 20**__00__** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">(Michael, Ph.D. and Professor of Politics and International Relations at Lancaster University, Julian - Ph.D. and Professor of War Studies at Kings College, “Global Governance, Liberal Peace, and Complex Emergency,” Alternatives: Social Transformation & Human Governance, Vol. 25, Issue 1 p. 130-132, MT)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Precisely speaking, then, the political topology…but the form of life presupposed and reproduced is also different.[[#_TOC1039679]]</span></span>
=<span style="text-align: left;">Argument C: Epistemology  </span>= 
**A realist paradigm of North Korea is misleading and filters out other information – this paradigm is value based and not objective**
**Blieker 05** (ROLAND BLEIKER PHD. in International Relations __Divided Korea Toward a Culture of Reconciliation__ 2005 pg. xxxv- xxxvii JDEF)

__Journalists, academics, and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">policy makers</span> …__“as it is” but also, and above all, attempts to understand how the current security dilemmas “have become what they are.”
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Put your “threats real evidence” away. Threats are created through an inter-subjective lens that ignores the cause of the threat.**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Blieker 05** (ROLAND BLEIKER PHD. in International Relations __Divided Korea Toward a Culture of Reconciliation__ 2005 pg. xxxvii- xxxix JDEF)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">One must recognize </span>both<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> the values that … **as the key source of tension on the Korean peninsula**</span>__</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Here’s another warrant – the way they produce knowledge is flawed, they parrot the logic of security from the state. </span>**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Neocleous</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> 20**__08__** </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 7pt;">(Mark is a Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 182-184)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">I have been arguing, then, that **__the ideology of security …<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;"> peddling the fetish of our time</span>__**</span>
**Realist predictions of wars in Asia have been proven false over and over.** 
**Kang 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Associate Professor of Government and Adjunct Associate Professor at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. (David C. Kang “Getting Asia Wrong: The Need for New Analytical Frameworks” International Security, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Spring, 2003), pp. 57-85)</span>
Second__, pessimistic <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">predictions </span>…__in the following section. 


<span style="text-align: justify;">**__Contention 3: Liberation__**</span>

**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white;">North Korea is a starting point to criticize overall IR theory</span>**
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white;">Kang 03</span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white;"> (David C., Sept. 03, Associate professor of government and adjunct associate professor at the Tuck school of Business at Dartmouth college, “International Relations Theory and the Second Korean War”, International Studies Quarterly, Vol. 47, No. 3)</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% white;">This is just the latest of a long series of dark predictions about…__moribund challenger, and the South was the rising defender.’’__</span></span>

**US military presence is to demonstrate US identity superiority, withdrawing is key to liberating from this ideology**
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Blieker 05** (ROLAND BLEIKER PHD. in International Relations __Divided Korea Toward a Culture of Reconciliation__ 2005 pg. 39-40 JDEF)</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">To understand the intricate … politics as with the objective strategic constellation in the region.</span>__</span>
**Without challenging a realist paradigm pragmatic change is impossible**
**Blieker 05** (ROLAND BLEIKER PHD. in International Relations __Divided Korea Toward a Culture of Reconciliation__ 2005 pg. xxviii- xxix JDEF)

__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">Diplomatic breakthroughs in Korea are </span>usually … Korea into the trapping structure of a vicious cycle of actions and reactions.”__ 
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**The affirmative ruptures the constant need for a debilitating politics of security, which engenders new political language**</span>
<span style="margin: 0.1pt 0in;">**N****eocleous** 20**08** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Mark is a Professor at Brunel University, Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History, he joined Brunel University in the Department of Government in 1994. Since then he has published numerous books and articles. His most recent work has been towards the development of a critique of security. “CRITIQUE OF SECURITY” 2008. Pg. 185-186, MT)</span></span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">__The only way out of such a …**it <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">requires us to be brave enough to return the gift</span>**__.14</span>
**Security stifles other view points- Breaking down security is key to engaging in new frameworks of thought** 
<span class="Underline0">**Clark 4**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—French Professor of Conflict Resolution at George Mason University (Mary E, ‘Rhetoric, Patriarchy & War: Explaining the Dangers of "Leadership" in Mass Culture, Women and Language’ pg. 21, KD)</span></span>
<span class="Underline0">Today's Western patriarchal world … <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a **new mental framework**-for</span> thinking, dialoguing and visioning </span>new patterns of intersocietal <span class="Underline0"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">interaction</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow; font-size: 7pt;">.</span></span>
**Human nature has both aggressive and peaceful capacities which furthers the need for positive socialization, biological determinism is scientifically wrong we can override drives and our ability for self reflection allows us to shape the factors that create action.**
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Crawford</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">09</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Neta, PhD, MA at MIT, BA at Brown, Prof. of political science at boston university. International Relations 2009 23: 271, “Human Nature and World Politics: Rethinking ‘Man’”, 2009 p. 284-286, MT)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">Negative views of human nature support … </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">devising policies that actually decrease fear and enhance trust</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">.</span>
**The role of the ballot should be determined by the better paradigm for understanding the Korean crisis** 
**Our political reality is only constructed by the way we represent the world**
**__Blieker__** 20**__00__**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (</span>Roland, Professor of IR at University of Queensland, “Contending Images of World Politics”, p. 227-228, MT)
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">While the conceptual contours…</span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Georgia;"> one has to deal with how the representation has structured the object it seeks to represent</span>__**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-family: Georgia;">.</span>__

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Voting aff through the judge represents a stance against security by an individual which can solve by breaking down the security structures</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">Burke</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;"> 20</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">02</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> (Anthony, Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, “Aporias of Security” p. 27, MT)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">It is perhaps easy to become despondent, …</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;"> and what its shimmering possibilities might be</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt; font-weight: normal;">.</span>__

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]