[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
PLAN
**The United States federal government should withdraw its ground troops from the Republic of Korea.**


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">Contention 1: Korea War Advantage </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">1. Provocation could happen any time, especially because it’s right before the G20 summit in South Korea.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">UK Press Association, 10/4.</span>**
(October 4, 2010, “N Korea ‘may disrupt G20 summit,’” [[http://www.google.com/hostednews/ukpress/article/ALeqM5iKxVMFBSlIx-AhUpEPTuCbckIkuQ?docId=N0073911286189674861A]], Date Accessed: 10/20/10)
North Korea may … but the North denies involvement.


**<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">2. Tensions along the Korean Peninsula are rising after the sinking of a South Korean warship- forces are on hair trigger alert and a miscalculation guarantees great power involvement and WMD use</span>**
**MacLeod 6-3** (Calum, Political reporter for USA Today**, “Tension in Korea: A sunken ship, and talk of war”, 6/3/2010, USA Today, [[http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2010-06-01-korea-tension_N.htm|**http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2010-06-01-korea-tension_N.htm**]])**



**The March 26 sinking of the … for the Jane's Information Group.**



<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**3. The US troops act as a “Tripwire” drawing us into any future conflict**</span>

<span class="Author-Date">**Carpenter and Bandow 04**</span>**,** Doug Bandow is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, specializing in foreign policy and civil liberties, Ted //Galen Carpenter// is the vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute. “The Korean Conundrum”

However<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">, the continued …</span></span> short-circuit these requirements.




<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">**4. A decreased US military is key to dismantle North Korean nuclear program**</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">**Horowitz, Ivy League professor of political science (UPenn), 2005** </span>

(Michael, Winter 04-05, 2004by The Center for Strategic and International Studies and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology The Washington Quarterly • 28:1 pp. 21–44. and a predoctoral fellow in national security at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies. “Who’s Behind that Curtain? Unveiling Potential Leverage over Pyongyang”, The Washington Quarterly 28:1 pp.21-44, JH & BH)

U.S. military … is not achieved



**5. A nuclear war on the Korean Peninsula would have immediate causalities that could reach 30 million, irradiate major population centers, and kill hundreds of millions by destroying the global climate. It would be a holocaust of unimaginable and unprecedented proportions.**

**Hayes, 2010**

(Peter and Michael, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute and Green, Victoria University, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5, accessed at http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

The consequences of failing … from the international community.




**6. Ozone depletion shatters DNA – making survival impossible.**

**Earth & Society ‘98** 
(A Project out of the University of Michigan -- THE OZONE LAYER: IMPORTANT COMPONENTS OF OZONE EDUCATION – <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.umich.edu/~gs265/society/ozone.htm]]</span>)



The ozone layer … to exist.




**Contention 2: Regionalism Advantage**


**1. China is rising—shifting security responsibilities to Asian countries is key to prevents conflict.**

Doug **Bandow**, Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan, 1/12/<span class="Author-Date">20</span>0**9**, “First Among Equals,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570

It’s the job of …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;"> will be the transition.</span></span>






**2. And forward deployment guarantees US clashes with China.**

Christopher **Layne**, Associate Professor in the Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University and Research Fellow with the Center on Peace and Liberty at The Independent Institute,<span class="Author-Date"> 20</span>**07**, "The Case Against the American Empire," American Empire: A Debate, p. 64-65

To be sure, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">the United States … is virtually certain.</span></span>




**3. The conflict will go nuclear.**

**Smith, professor of politics and history at Marymount University, 01.**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;">Charles R. </span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">Smith</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> Professor of Politics and History, Marymount University Formerly military historian and research analyst for Data Memory Systems, Inc., a historical evaluation and research organization Tuesday, Aug. 14, 20</span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">01</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; text-decoration: none;"> War With China http://archive.newsmax.com/archives/articles/2001/8/14/174213.shtml</span>**

Fiction? Then consider this fact: <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">The United States …</span></span>off Taiwan's coastline.




**4. The US inhibits a necessary regional security structure in East Asia, destroying the region’s chance for stability.**

**Choi 08** 

[Dr. Young Jong, prof of IR @ the Catholic University of Korea, paper at the Asian Voices convention in DC, November, http://new.asiaviews.org/?content=ger53rger567664&voices=20081120141855



Unlike during the cold war …<span class="CardsFont12pt0"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> by regional organizations.</span></span>





**5. Accelerating U.S. withdrawal is key to catalyze a multipolar balance of power in the region and pave the way for an off-shore balancing strategy.**

**Espiritu, 06** **–** Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]], JMP)



Can the U.S. live … Eagle to head home.




**6. Offshore balancing is the most optimal solution to checking back large scale wars** 

**Layne and Schwarz, 02.**

Christopher <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-style: normal;">Layne</span></span> and Benjamin <span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-style: normal;">Schwarz 2,</span></span> Schwarz was a foreign policy analyst at the RAND Corporation, where he researched and wrote on American global strategy, counterinsurgency, counterterrorism, and military doctrine. Schwarz was also staff member of the Brookings Institution, Layne, PhD is Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University , The Atlantic Monthly; January 2002; A New Grand Strategy; Volume 289, No. 1; 36-42 http://www.theatlantic.com/past/issues/2002/01/schwarzlayne.htm



A strategy of <span class="CardsFont12ptChar"><span style="text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">preponderance …</span></span> redress the imbalance.




**Solvency**




**1. Taking the first step toward reconciliation will cause the DPRK to reciprocate and begin negotiations towards denuclearization**

**China Daily, 2009**

(“Diplomacy the Path to Peaceful Peninsula” April 7, 2009 Accessed on 6/22/10 AW GW)



If the <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com:80/us/lnacademic/search/XMLCrossLinkSearch.do?bct=A&risb=21_T9367122866&returnToId=20_T9367379704&csi=227171&A=0.5818079453284389&sourceCSI=9369&indexTerm=%23PE000A0BO%23&searchTerm=Obama%20administration%20&indexType=P#_blank|Obama administration ]]</span>… diplomacy<span style="color: black;"> invites disaster.</span>





**2. Hard Line Fails - trying to punish North Korea for their actions as a “rogue state” is a flawed policy framework which empirically fails**
**Bleiker, Professor of International Relations at the University of Queensland, 2003** 

(Roland Bleiker, “A Rogue is a Rogue is a Rogue: US foreign policy and the Korean nuclear crisis” Accessed on JSTOR, pg. 4, jb, sob)



One of the most revealing … up the nuclear option.'2




**3. Increased pressure causes North Korea to increase nuclear weapon production**

**Cha and Kang 04** 

**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(Victor D. Cha and David C. Kang, Victor D. Cha is D.S. Song-Korea Foundation Chair of Asian Studies at the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and David C. Kang is director of the Korean Studies Institute at the University of Southern California, Summer 2004, __Political Science Quarterly__, “The Debate over North Korea”, pg. 243-244, JSTOR Database, 05/18/2010, JB and ZB)</span>**



Thus, the Agreed Framework of 1994 … from acting too precipitously. <span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: 'MS Mincho';">    </span>**



**4. Put away the disad – it’s not unique anyway.**

**The herald 2/17/10.**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">(February 17, heraldscotland.com Lexis) ELJ</span>

The <span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;">US military </span></span>…**<span class="underline"><span style="text-decoration: none;"> end of 2011.</span></span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]