[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
===Deontology AC=== 

<span class="s1">It is impossible to evaluate consequences of action when discussing nuclear weapons. </span>
<span class="s1">Nuclear Intentions Author(s): Gerald Dworkin Source: Ethics, Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence (Apr., 1985), pp. 445-460 Published by: The University of Chicago Press Stable URL: <span class="s2">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381031]]</span>. </span>
<span class="s1">“In case 1...such a consequentialist assessment.”</span>

<span class="s1">Only when people are treated as ends in themselves are humans valuable at all. </span>
<span class="s1">Arthur Isak Applbaum <Professor of Ethics and Public Policy, Harvard Kennedy School, A.B., Princeton, M.P.P., PhD, Harvard>, “Are Violations of Rights Ever Right?” Ethics, Vol. 108, No. 2 (Jan., 1998) via jstor. </span>
<span class="s1">“Although Kamm’s is the...reason to avoid and prevent”</span>

<span class="s1">Not treating people as ends in themselves undermines every moral theory. </span>
<span class="s1">Quinn, Warren S. “Actions, Intentions, and Consequences: The Doctrine of Doing and Allowing.” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 98, No. 3, (Jul., 1989), pp. 287-312. JSTOR.</span>
<span class="s1">“A person is constituted...bodies really being ours.”</span>

<span class="s1">Intent to harm is sufficient to establish the wrongness of an act because it forces our actions to be guided by evil, which should by definition repel us. </span>
<span class="s1">Thomas Nagel "Agent-Relativity and Deontology," The View From Nowhere: New York: Oxford University Press, 1986, pp, 164- 85) accessed via [[http://philosophy.ucsd.edu/faculty/rarneson/Courses/NAGELAutonomyandDeontolo|http://philosophy.ucsd.edu/faculty/rarneson/Courses/NAGELAutonomyandDeontoogy.pdf]]</span>
<span class="s1">“Let me try to say where...sense of moral dislocation.”</span>

<span class="s1">Even if governments must generally disregard side-constraints, social institutions are immoral if they systemically violate deontological side-constraints.</span>
<span class="s1">Lee, Steven. "The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences." Ethics 95(1985): 549-566.</span>
<span class="s1">“Any is institution is...justifiability of social institutions.”</span>

<span class="s1">Every use of nuclear weapons will kill innocent civilians. Deterrence is predicated on the ability to harm innocents. </span>
<span class="s1">Lee, Steven. "The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences." Ethics 95(1985): 549-566.</span>
<span class="s1">“First, the vast majority...theory of collective responsibility.”</span>

<span class="s1">Deterrence only works if the threat is real. </span>
<span class="s1">Lee, Steven. "The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences." Ethics 95(1985): 549-566.</span>
<span class="s1">“Deterrence works only...the intention to retaliate.”</span>

<span class="s1">Since use of nuclear weapons would be immoral regardless of circumstances, conditional intention to use nuclear weapons is immoral. </span>
<span class="s1">Robert P. Churchill <Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins in 1975, Professor of Philosophy, George Washington University>, “Nuclear Arms as a Philosophical and Moral Issue” Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, Vol. 469, Nuclear Armament and Disarmament (Sep., 1983), pp. 46-57</span>
<span class="s1">“The objection that it is...the actions of national leaders.”</span>

<span class="s1">Even if deterrence never fails, it still imposes an unacceptable risk on innocents. </span>
<span class="s1">Lee, Steven. "The Morality of Nuclear Deterrence: Hostage Holding and Consequences." Ethics 95(1985): 549-566.</span>
<span class="s1">“Second, nuclear deterrence imposes...substantial risk of harm.”</span>

==Negative== 
===Contractarianism NC=== 


<span class="s1">Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.</span>
<span class="s1">“Moral principles are introduced...dimension in their affairs.”</span>

<span class="s1">Gauthier, David P. Morals by Agreement. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.</span>
<span class="s1">“A contractarian theory of morals...morally neutral base.”</span>

<span class="s1">VC: consistency with a contractarian system of mutual self-restraint</span>

<span class="s1">Absent the predictability afforded by a sovereign, it is not within an actors interest to restrain its action. </span>
<span class="s1">Thomas Nagel, “The Problem of Global Justice”, 2005 by Blackwell Publishing, Inc. Philosophy & Public Affairs 33, no. 2. <span class="s2">[[http://as.nyu.edu/docs/IO/1172/globaljustice.pdf]]</span></span>
<span class="s1">“But the same need for assurance...judge to be just or unjust.”</span>

<span class="s1">In a world of nuclear zero, specifically, states can never be sure that others don’t have nuclear weapons.</span>
<span class="s1">Christopher A. Ford—Spring 2010. [New Atlantis contributing editor. Senior fellow at the Hudson Institute. Former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation. Former Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament verification and compliance policy]. "Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?," The New Atlantis, Number 27. 3-20. </span>
<span class="s1">“But let us now consider...for disarmament research.”</span>

===Deterrence NC=== 

<span class="s1">Any unbiased decision maker would seek to create the highest average distribution of good, rather than acting in her own self-interest. </span>
<span class="s1">John Harsanyi. “Can the Maximin Principle Serve as a Basis for Morality? A critique of John Rawls’s Theory” The American Poltical Science Review, June 1975, pp. 594-606. JSTOR</span>
<span class="s1">"It is easy to verify...principle of average utility."</span>

<span class="s1">Nukes force even crazy dictators to consider the costs of war unacceptable.</span>

<span class="s1">Jonathan Tepperman <B.A., Yale, M.A., Jurisprudence, Oxford, LL.M., international law, NYU. Deputy editor at Newsweek> , “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb” Newsweek. August 29, 2009. [[http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html]]</span>
<span class="s1">"To understand why...might lose everything."</span>

<span class="s1">It's empirically proven to work. </span>

<span class="s1">Jonathan Tepperman <B.A., Yale, M.A., Jurisprudence, Oxford, LL.M., international law, NYU. Deputy editor at Newsweek> , “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb” Newsweek. August 29, 2009. [[http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html]]</span>
<span class="s1">"Why indeed? The iron logic...the same safe conclusion."</span>






=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
===Punishment AC=== 
Punishment rests on a theory of desert: people are punished because they deserve to be harmed due to some action they took. Thus, an individual must be able to exercise voluntary action if she is to be punished.

The Construction of Responsibility in the Criminal Law Author(s): Richard C. Boldt Source: University of Pennsylvania Law Review, Vol. 140, No. 6 (Jun., 1992), pp. 2245-2332 Published by: The University of Pennsylvania Law Review Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/3312415
"By contrast, the opinion... inappropriate for society"

Intent is important.
Thomas Nagel "Agent-Relativity and Deontology," The View From Nowhere: New York: Oxford University Press, 1986, pp, 164- 85) accessed via http://philosophy.ucsd.edu/faculty/rarneson/Courses/NAGELAutonomyandDeontoogy.pdf
“Let me try to say where...sense of moral dislocation.”

In criminology in particular, punishment can only be imposed upon people who committed crimes with the intent to violate the law.
Retributive Justice Author(s): James P. Sterba Source: Political Theory, Vol. 5, No. 3 (Aug., 1977), pp. 349-362 Published by: Sage Publications, Inc. Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/190646 "To avoid the problems...to a utilitarian"

Addicts don’t have any control over their actions—once they become addicts, they can’t resist the impulse to get high.
Alan Leshner, Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47) "That addiction is tie...seeking and use."

Addictive drugs cause dependence that serves as a motivation for addicts to take more drugs.
Steven E. Hyman, M.D., “Addiction: A Disease of Learning and Memory” Am J Psychiatry 162:8, August 2005. "Addictive drugs elicit... long after detoxification"

All drugs activate a pathway that causes addiction. 

Alan Leshner, Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47). "Although each drug... affect this circuit"

public health is the proper response to drug addiction.

The Construction of Responsibility in the Criminal Law Author(s): Richard C. Boldt Source: University of Pennsylvania Law Review, Vol. 140, No. 6 (Jun., 1992), pp. 2245-2332 Published by: The University of Pennsylvania Law Review Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/3312415. "The literature presents... ingestion of the substance"

Dealing with addiction requires that we recognize it as such. Failure to do so explains why criminal justice approaches have failed.

Alan Leshner, Addiction is a Brain Disease, and it Matters (Science, New Series, Vol. 278, No. 5335. (Oct. 3, 1997), pp. 45-47). "At an even more...part of the solution."

====Apple Valley Round 3 AC==== 
This was the same as the punishment AC except without the last Leshner card and with these cards added to the bottom of the AC:

Drug prohibition destroys inner cities.
Milton Friedman <Nobel prize winning economist, he’s a pretty BFD>, “There’s no justice in the war on drugs” New York Times, Sunday 11 January 1998. "Destruction of inner cities...epitomize this one"

The criminal justice approach to drug abuse is completely counterproductive.
Gostin. Compulsory Treatment for Drug-Dependent Persons: Justifications for a Public Health Approach to Drug Dependency. "It makes little...their first arrest"

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Medicalization solves the black market.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Miron, Jeffrey. (BA from Swarthmore. PhD from MIT. Professor at Harvard. Previous posts at BU, Michigan, and MIT.) “The Economics of Drug Prohibition and Drug Legalization.” Social Research. Fall, 2001. "An alternative to...this is a negative."</span>


===<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.1em; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">**Rawls AC**</span>=== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">I advocate the metaethical standard of rationality. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Christine M. Korsgaard <Prof. Phil, Harvard>, The Sources of Normativity. Cambridge University Press. 1996. "If the problem springs...reflection is done."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A rational moral calculus involves placing moral decision makers behind a veil of ignorance. </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Freeman, Samuel <Prof. of Philosophy at UPenn>. "Original Position." Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/original-position/#ArgForDifPri. "The remedy for such...respect for moral persons."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">From a veil of ignorance, moral agents would rationally choose to be risk-averse and thus adopt a principle that would guarantee basic goods for themselves.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ibid. "It is often claimed...the principle of utility"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Drug prohibition causes harm to the poorest people in society through the violence it fosters.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">David Borden <exec. director of stopthedrugwar.org, has written over 160 editorials on drug policy, A.B., Princeton>, “Editorial: Poverty and the Drug Laws” Stopthedrugwar.org. January 25, 2008. "The drug laws keep...makes life hard."</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Next, drug laws contribute to poverty by contributing to ridiculous incarceration rates among urban and African-American men.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Ibid. "The second most...and in force"</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Drug laws are used to directly undermine the attorney-client relationship to tip the balance in favor of the prosecution.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Steven Wisotsky < B.A., University of Pennsylvania, J.D., University of Miami, LL.M., (Ford Foundation Fellow) Yale Law School, prof. of law at Nova Southeastern University>, “Crackdown: The Emerging "Drug Exception" to the Bill of Rights.” Hastings Law Journal, July 1987. "In some cases the..."reprehensible" and "disastrous.""</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">And, a public health approach to drug laws—medicalization—solves the black market that harms the poor.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Miron, Jeffrey. (BA from Swarthmore. PhD from MIT. Professor at Harvard. Previous posts at BU, Michigan, and MIT.) “The Economics of Drug Prohibition and Drug Legalization.” Social Research. Fall, 2001. "An alternative to...this is a negative."</span>


==Negative== 
===Drug Courts CP=== 
TEXT - The United States federal government should implement a system of drug courts for people arrested for abuse of illegal drugs.

COMPETITION - Drug courts occupy the space between public health and criminal justice. 
Schmitt, Glen R. US Department of Justice. Drug Courts: The Second Decade. June 2006. "Drug courts merge...control of their lives"

SOLVENCY -
Drug courts are more effective at reducing abuse than public health.
Schmitt, Glen R. US Department of Justice. Drug Courts: The Second Decade. June 2006. "Drug courts offer an.... outside the justice system"

And, drug courts empirically reduce recidivism rates and crime rates. Huddleston, C. West, Marlowe, Douglas B., and Casebolt, Rachel. Painting the Current Picture: A National Report Card on Drug Courts and Other Problem Solving Court Programs in the United States, Alexandria, VA: National Drug Court Institute, May 2008."In the ensuing years... from the time of arrest"

Maintaining a criminal justice aspect of dealing with drug users is key to any public health regime because police give access to addicts.
Gostin. Compulsory Treatment for Drug-Dependent Persons: Justifications for a Public Health Approach to Drug Dependency. "The criminal justice system provides... at the time of the offense"

===Skepticism K=== 
Different species have different sense-perceptions about the world.
Sextus Empiricus. Late 100s AD. Outlines of Pyrrhonism. http://evans-experientialism.freewebspace.com/sextus_empiricus02.htm. "Moreover, the differences...receives the impression."

Different individuals have different perceptions. 
Diogenes Laertius: Life of Pyrrho. Sometime between 200 and 500. Trans. By CD Younge. 1853. http://fxylib.znufe.edu.cn/wgfljd/%B9%C5%B5%E4%D0%DE%B4%C7%D1%A7/pw/diogenes/dlpyrrho.htm. "The second mode...suspend our opinions."

Even in the same person, sense perceptions change as states of that person change. 
Ibid. "The fourth refers...top of the house"

Different cultures lead to differences in perceptions of the good. 
Ibid. "The fifth mode...suspend our judgment"

Because nothing is perceived outside of context, the true nature of things cannot be perceived.
Ibid. "The sixth mode...oil in ointment"

Appearance is further based on the relative position of the perceiver and the perceived, meaning true knowledge is impossible.
Ibid. "The seventh mode...nature is not known."

Any test of certainty is inherently circular.
Ibid. "Besides, if particular...one on the other"

We must reject the assertion that we can learn truth.
Ibid. "Again, the dogmatic...but something else."

We should embrace suspension of judgment on all value statements.
Sextus Empiricus. Late 100s AD. Outlines of Pyrrhonism. http://evans-experientialism.freewebspace.com/sextus_empiricus02.htm. "Our next subject...he is unperturbed"

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
===Due Process AC=== 
Due process rights are necessary for criminal trials to fit society’s own normative goals. 
Meares, Tracy. “Everything Old is New Again: Fundamental Fairness and the Legitimacy of Criminal Justice,” Ohio State Journal of Criminal Law, (2005) http://moritzlaw.osu.edu/osjcl/Articles/Volume3_1/Symposium/Meares_3-1.pdf
"It goes almost without...individual and the state"

Due process rights are necessary to maintain society’s confidence in the criminal justice system.
Ibid. 
"Fair process norms are...the trial is 'fair'"

Due process rights are integral to the legitimacy of the trial and to respecting the autonomy of citizens.
Duff, Antony. The Trial on Trial, Volume 2. 2004. Pg. 25. Accessed via GoogleBooks.
"The same suggestion...from such a process."

Juvenile court do not guarantee a trial by jury.
“Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy” Barry C. Feld. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), Vol. 88, No. 1 (Autumn, 1997), http://www.jstor.org/stable/1144075
"Although the right...from public scrutiny."

The lack of a jury trial stacks the deck against juvenile defendants.
“The Court's Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases” Janet E. Ainsworth. The Future of Children, Vol. 6, No. 3, The Juvenile Court (Winter, 1996), http://www.jstor.org/stable/1602594 
"Denial of the right...one the accused has."

Juvenile courts leave too much in the hands of the judges, which leads to arbitrariness. 
Abolish the Juvenile Court: Youthfulness, Criminal Responsibility, and Sentencing Policy” Barry C. Feld. The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), Vol. 88, No. 1 (Autumn, 1997), http://www.jstor.org/stable/1144075
"Quite apart from its...procedural or appellate checks."

The criminal court system can solve the problems of the juvenile system.
“The Court's Effectiveness in Protecting the Rights of Juveniles in Delinquency Cases” Janet E. Ainsworth. The Future of Children, Vol. 6, No. 3, The Juvenile Court (Winter, 1996), http://www.jstor.org/stable/1602594 
"To the extent that...proposed by the state."

Adult courts deter juvenile crime.

Oliver, Brian. “Does Trying Juveniles as Adults Work? An Analysis of the Evidence” Juvenile Justice Foundation. June 2006. http://www.juvenilejusticefoundation.com/An%20Analysis.html
"One assumption made...effect on juvenile crime."


==Negative== 
===Recidivism NC=== 
Government should use a utilitarian framework because any unbiased decision maker would seek to create the highest average distribution of good, rather than acting in her own self-interest.
John Harsanyi. Can the Maximin Principle Serve as a Basis for Morality? A critique of John Rawls’s Theory. The American Poltical Science Review, June 1975, pp. 594-606. JSTOR
"It is easy to verify...the principle of average utility."

The methodology for my study is awesome.
Lanza-Kaduce, Lonn; Frazier, Charles; Lane, Jodi; and Bishop, Donna “Juvenile Transfer to Criminal Court Study: Final Report.” Florida State Government Report. 2002 http://www.prisonpolicy.org/scans/juveniletransfers.pdf. 
"The quality of the match...after the age of 18."

Recidivism rates are between 10 and 15 percent higher when juveniles are placed in the adult system.
Ibid.
"Across all cases...reported across all cases."

Juveniles placed in the adult system also commit more serious crimes after released.
Ibid.
"The paired comparisons also...more serious subsequent offense."

===Miranda CP=== 
Text: The 50 states of the United States and all associated territories should prohibit juvenile waiver of Miranda rights.

Juveniles should not be allowed to waive right to counsel. 
Berkheiser, Mary. “The Fiction of Juvenile Right to Counsel: Waiver in the Juvenile Courts.” Florida Law Review. 54 Fla. L. Rev. 577. Sept. 2002. 
"These recommendations reflect...establish sound public policy."

Juveniles are very likely to falsely confess to crimes.
Drizin, Steven and Luloff, Greg. “Are Juvenile Courts a Breeding Ground for Wrongful Convictions?” North Kentucky Law Review. Pg. 7-8. 2007.
"Getting a child to forfeit...is placed upon them."

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]