[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Resonance Communities (TFA project aff)== 
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">We begin with our story. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">There is no such thing as a Thorndale debate team, only debaters who happened to be from Thorndale. Me and Hank are 2 of 2. There is no B, C,D,E, or F team, there are no “post-novs”, there was no teams we have came after. We were the “A team” last year, and Hank was the “A-team” the year before that with his brother who like us was just another debater from Thorndale. We make this distinction because we don’t have a program proper, we have no coach, no squad room, or trophy case. We’ve survived on teaching ourselves how to debate and the grace of amazingly good-hearted English teachers who have been willing to give up their weekends driving kids to an event to hear kids speak in voices they can’t understand. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">When Hank was debating with his brother I was 1 of 3. I debated LD. When Hank’s brother graduated the only reason we have a CX team now is because I decided to convert. Otherwise the “Thorndale debate team” would of consisted of one LDer these past two years. Hardly what anybody would call a squad. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">We however consider ourselves to be some of the lucky ones. Being a hours drive from Austin we were close enough to have access to a circuit that allowed us to do what we love and compete on what is known as a “national” style of debate. But majority of kids from geographically isolated, low-income, rural schools don’t have this leisure. Programs across the state start and disappear due to a mirad of structural problems, most notably a lack of access and a lack a resources. Most of this is due to the fact that rural districts and school boards are not only dis-interested but do not realize that there are things that schools can compete in that are not sanctioned under a UIL header, or that they feel funding is better suited for things that end in “ball”. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">This creates an entire population of debaters that do not belong to a squad or can rep a school, but are still debaters none the less. Kids that pay their own way to camps, drive themselves to tournaments, pay entry fees, etc. And that’s only when they are able to find a partner. Many are just singular debaters who a barred from competition because they simply are not allowed into tournaments as hybrid teams when they have the luck to search another out that is in the same position. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">As unaffiliated teams, they faced the immense resistance of the debate community. Not only would do tournaments not let these team-ups of debater compete, the TFA and TOC rules deny them the ability to participate even if they had the skill to bid or qualify. Andrea Reed, Debate Director at the University of Kentucky told us this:</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">(Andrea Reed, Director of Debate at UK, Lecturer in Comm., Oct. 22, 2010, email conversation between myself (chris leonardi) and ms. Reed)</span></span>
<span style="color: black;">Unfortunately I think __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the answer to your question is no. You must earn </span>__</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: #222222;">TOC</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;"> bids while competing with the school you actually attend. We do not allow "independent entries" at the </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: #222222;">TOC</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">, meaning attending on your own or attending with another school that is not your own</span>__<span style="color: black;">. If you do earn at least one bid while competing for your actual school, you may apply for an at-large bid, and the committee may take into account bids you've earned with other partners. __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">One thing to note though is that many </span>__</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: #222222;">TOC </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">qualifying tournaments do not allow independent entries at all since they are not allowed at the </span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: #222222;">TOC</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">.</span>__
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The TFA rules are same. We are all nomads: our social location is unknown, that part of the map has been conveniently left blank. Unaffiliated debaters change what it means to be a debater: we're not from a single school, we're not attached to a label, a name, a squad, a signifier, a code that lets you decode what we are and package us up into a neat little file: "A2 Beacon", "A2 Westwood", "The Greenhill Neg." Instead of becoming a block title, we affirm what it means to not be trapped in the dualistic logic of school rivalry: the logic that tells us, "they're not from our school, thus they're the enemy." </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">But we aren’t alone in this unique form of suffering: geographic isolation, underfunding and rural debate culture aren’t the only constraints on competition. Many are excluded from the debate community based simply on disagreements with coaches or unjust school boards or selfish teachers or even just unfortunate circumstances. This is a real problem: people are quitting debate every day because of this frustration. So this one’s for anyone out there who’s ever been judge fucked in a local; for anyone who ever couldn’t debate because there wasn’t enough money, and for anyone who’s been just plain disenfranchised by the system. We ask for your ballot to affirm our work stoppage in this debate space. Our suspension of the topic signifies our refusal to engage a traditional model of debate in which this exclusion of outside perspectives is furthered. The ballot is a key token of dedication with our movement: no other sacrifice has enough meaning to other debaters that would truly signify allegiance. We use the ballot as a method of raising awareness and generating consensus in this debate space to challenge the structures of oppression that exclude us from the community. We use this round as a space to begin constructing our own identities independent of Andrea Reed’s idea of what a “proper” debater is. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our movement isn’t __just__ about this round: we must compose ourselves as if our actions and our words were everywhere. And indeed they are: at this moment these same words are being spoken in other rounds, other rooms at this tournament, asking for broader consensus. These spaces are intimately linked: this connection of struggles creates an emergent network that establishes alliances between nodes of resistance. There’s no way around us, there’s no trick to winning: we must sit and listen to each other’s unique perspectives in order to begin true praxis. </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Instead of allowing the debate space to be formed for us by monolithic figures in tab rooms, </span></span><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hank and I affirm the social location of the nomad in debate as a counter-hegemony to institutional exclusion. This affirmation is a radical reclamation of the debate space through the invocation of an external identity. Our thought organizes radical personhood outside of institutions, gathering consensus and building momentum to change the spaces we occupy. We’ve been told we belong outside of national high school debate, and so we affirm this location at the outside of thought as a revolutionary starting point for community-building and discussion. </span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">This is El Kilombo Intergaláctico describing our process of external autonomous construction in 2007:</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">(actual communist collective based in Durham North Carolina. “The Fourth, the Sixth, the Other, and US” <http://inthemiddleofthewhirlwind.wordpress.com/15/>. 2007.)</span>
__We could also look at this history in terms of its symbolic icons:__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the fire, the word, the silence, and the “other.” The fire refers to the uprising and the twelve days of fighting in January of 1994, as well as to the subsequent ceasefire called by the Zapatistas in response to the massive public support and plea for an end to the fighting. The word refers to the dialogues, formally referencing the peace talks with the government, but also, and more importantly </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the Zapatistas</span> have said, to their process of getting to know “civil society” through meetings, communiqués, letters, and the global traffic in and out of the Zapatista communities__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. The silence refers the years after the government betrayal of the peace accords with a bad faith counter-reform (2001), when the Zapatistas refused further conversation with those “above,” entered a period of public silence, and set about implementing the accords “in practice.” That is, </span>__they decided they <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">would no longer ask or wait for their rights to be granted, and would</span> instead <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">continue</span> with the process of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">constructing autonomy</span> in their everyday lives themselves__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. They thus set about the creation of a system of autonomous governing councils, autonomous health and education programs, an autonomous judicial system, and what has resulted in a system of new social relations based on collective production, assembly decision-making, and direct democratic self-governance. Or, in yet another way of looking at this history, we witness the expanding list of peoples and groups with whom the Zapatistas have met and begun to know, adding each time not just to their list of allies but to their network from and for “below”: students, workers, teachers, housewives, gays and lesbians, other indigenous groups, children, the elderly, religious laypeople who work with those below, artists, musicians, intellectuals, political prisoners, migrants, transvestites, transgender people, punks, goths, skateboarders, sexworkers, and so on. </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-weight: normal;">It is out of this context that the Sixth arises</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">: announcing that, having done an analysis of the world, of the national situation, of global capitalism and of their local conditions, and having carried out a referendum throughout all Zapatista territory to come to an agreement on this next step, they had decided that: 1) due to the continuing process of primitive accumulation, total destruction was imminent, not just of the Lacandón Jungle and the Zapatista communities, but of the global environment and human living conditions in general. </span>__Capitalism was destroying everything for short-term profit__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, they declared, and that </span>__it would stop nowhere__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, it would eat its own to continue the process; 2) that what they wanted, they could not obtain alone, nor was what they wanted just for themselves; and 3) that to do what they proposed in the Sixth Declaration was to risk everything they have gained in the past decade of struggle, but to do nothing was to lose for sure. And so they would come out of the jungle, unarmed, out of the clandestinity and protection provided by a guerrilla existence in the mountains, to meet and organize with the rest of civil society, to, in short, peacefully overturn the entire system of government and destroy capitalism, to remake politics and change the world. </span>__On a national level this would take the form of the Other Campaign, a project to create a national anticapitalist program of struggle, nonviolent, non-electoral, from and for below, to create a new “nation” and a new way of doing politics.__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> On the international level it would take the form of the intergalactic—a planetary network of struggle, highly organized but highly autonomous. The Sixth Declaration gave an account of Zapatista history somewhat like we have done above—a process not only of fighting for their own rights and demands, of battle and dialogue with the government, of construction and rebellion in their own communities, but of a process of meeting other sectors of society, of learning to know other struggles, of learning to respect and to demand respect from the “other.” </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">In the Sixth</span> Declaration <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the Zapatistas announced </span>that as a consequence of this process<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">, “we couldn’t see and hear all that was happening on our planet and remain quiet, as if we are only here where we’re at.” </span>For Zapatismo this means that today Iraq is in southeast Mexico,__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Chiapas is on the US-Mexico border, Palestine is everywhere. </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The project to </span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-weight: normal;">connect struggles</span><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;"> would</span> be not just a strategy of mutual support and solidarity between groups, but a project to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">create a new</span> “we,” a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">collective subject from “below” capable of acting in cooperation beyond previously acknowledged borders that today function only to separate “us</span>.”__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Included in this new subject are all those who are “humble, simple, dignified, and rebellious.” Methodologically, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">the Other Campaign would start with the sending out of a Zapatista delegate</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to visit, traveling by land, each of the 32 states of the Mexican Republic, in addition to three meetings on the US-Mexico border to meet with people from “the other side” – the US. This was the work of Subcomandante Insurgente Marcos, and this was the process undertaken throughout 2006. These meetings were not typically big public events in big cities; the Zapatista delegation traveled where people lived and worked: to the most remote corners of the mountains, the desert, the plains, the forests, the coasts, to indigenous communities, squatter’s colonies, anarchist squats, to the red light districts to meet with sex-workers, to rural high schools to meet with students, to jails to meet with prisoners. These </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">meetings were a great exercise in listening, not simply letting people talk, but </span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-weight: normal;">creating the space for their words to be heard.</span>__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">Two or 200 participants, the Zapatista delegation listened to every single one. There is no shortcut to creating a new “we,” they said repeatedly, other than to listen to each other. After this initial journey, more commanders of the Zapatista army left Chiapas to meet other sectors and other struggles and continue the process of creating a national network of struggle. </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">There are two important trajectories of this process that we can point to as central to the process of building this new “we</span>” of, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">from</span>, and for <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">below. One is the process of becoming united without becoming the same.</span>__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">The history of attempts by the left to unite struggles or create national or international level organizations have been characterized, and usually derailed, by structures and ideologies of the necessity of a vanguard to guide the masses, or the need for a united “people” to lend support and legitimacy to a leader, or the inevitable process whereby peasants give way to proletariat or social movements become political party base, in general the necessity to suppress internal differences in the interest of making a common front to face the enemy. </span>__If there was one theme that was most repeated throughout the Other Campaign by the Zapatistas it was this: <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">we do not ask you to be like us, we ask you to be with us; we are not looking for followers, we are looking for comrades</span>;__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the only thing that makes us the same is that we are all different. </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">The second aspect is to learn to know the “other,” to create a process of talking, and</span> more importantly <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">listening, that </span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-weight: normal;">turns the category “other” from something marginal into something universal</span>.__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">That is, the “other” becomes each difference, self-valued and autonomous, among us, rather than measures of deviation from a norm. This was perhaps the conceptualization that most resonated across “civil society,” taking on fluctuating and transformative meanings where the “other” of “(An)Other world is possible” and the “Other Campaign” became an impetus for an “other” education, an “other” media, an “other” communication, an “other” sexuality, etc. The “todos somos Marcos” (We are all Marcos!) chanted by the Zapatista communities in 1994 was transformed into the “tod@s somos OTR@S” (We are all Others!) chanted by the transsexual community, adherents of the Sixth Declaration, in Oaxaca City, 2006.</span> __The process of becoming “other” is not something figurative in the Other Campaign, it is a concrete process____<span style="font-weight: normal;">. <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">There really was no trick for doing this new “othering” than actually sitting and listening</span></span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, for hours and hours, to how the transsexual community identifies neoliberalism in Oaxaca City, and how the landless peasants live neoliberalism on its outskirts. And in this process, it was not just the Zapatistas that listened to each struggle, but each group began to hear the others, </span>__and <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a network of knowledge began to form</span> in which farmers, street vendors, students, and housewives knew each other’s problems, persecutions, and perspectives.__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">These are not easy tasks, and it is sometimes only when one is sitting in an assembly of the communist party and the anarchist collectives of Saltillo, Coahuila, or in a meeting of Oaxacan indigenous farmers and Oaxaca City cross-dressers, that you begin to see that when there is no prescription to follow, when, as the Zapatistas have always said, there is no road where we want to go, when one is offered various paths in life and doesn’t like any of them, the rebellious do not pick, they start building a new one.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The new path being constructed in the Other Campaign starts here then, with a new “we” composed of all those from “below.” But “</span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">below” is not a term for victims</span>, nor is it a term for an opposition__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">; it is not the counterpart to, or the consequence of, “above</span>__.” <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">It is an affirmative organization, a political project, a new way of composing community.</span>__
<span class="Author-Date">We don’t know what debate should look like besides that it should be fair and open to all. Our purpose is not a transcendent goal but rather a specific temporal goal – to close out this tournament with the other teams running this argument in solidarity, in order to make the semis and finals rounds fully inclusive round table discussions with all those here on how we can make debate more accessible. Instead of focusing on what debate or community “is” we should focus on what it “does.” There’s no single telos to our praxis; affirm our community building as a molecular resonance with other drifting tribes and nodes of resistance. Our community is molecular; our jam is resonance. </span>
<span class="Author-Date">This is Phil Smith in 2010 </span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">(Phil, Phil Smith is a UK based artist, performer and teacher, specialising in performance related to walking. At present he is engaged in research at the University of Plymouth (UK) on the effectiveness of performance and performative interventions in touristic and heritage spaces."Tourists/Terrorists – Useful Ambiguities in a Search for Models", Rhizome magazine) </span>
__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">A discussion about models of 'ideal', resistant, small group organisation is generally pre-empted by an argument about intentions. What is the group for?</span>__<span style="color: black;"> [2] </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">The principle seems obvious – there must be an 'end'</span>__<span style="color: black;"> of some kind that drives and determines the means, however that relation works itself out. [3] Yet, so often, the histories of group organisation, whether philanthropic, political or recreational, are of empirical specificities turning out to be far more rich and potent than mere means; that </span>__<span style="color: black;">it is in </span>__<span style="color: black;">their </span>__<span style="color: black;">details that the larger structures of what they become first emerge: </span>__<span style="color: black;">the Provisional IRA become custodians of a peace agreement, the crusading Knights Hospitaller of St John metamorphose into first-aiders at sports events. [4] This potential for convenient, utilitarian tactics to turn suddenly (and often stay turned) towards a qualitatively new strategic end is sometimes spotted early on and snuffed out. In the 1920s a rag-tag, barely coherent orrery of proletarian UK-based Marxist philosophers, already beginning to establish their own eccentric, vernacular tradition, was halted by their recruitment to the Communist Party of Great Britain. In the Second World War, the first manifestation of a UK 'Home Guard' (an official civilian defence force raised to fight Nazi invasion), was dismantled; initially trained by Spanish anarchist miners, refugees from Franco, it was developing an insurgent, revolutionary structure among its base of early members. [5] So, </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">rather than establish an 'end', and then seek a model for the group structure most likely to achieve it, I</span><span style="color: black;"> propose to <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">present</span> here the details of <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">various existing and historic small group practices with resistant, covert or disruptive qualities</span></span>__<span style="color: black;">, flagging up different fragments, slivers, signatures, eccentricities and tics, with the intention of whirling these around the meandering practice of the International Lettriste/situationist dérive (or drift), or at least around an 'ideal' version of the practices of contemporary dériviste groups, some modelled precisely and others imprecisely on the dérive. (My account of some of these is here.) [6] The context for this speculative modelling is an ongoing series of experiments with various forms of exploratory and 'disrupted' walking: </span>**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">these</span><span style="color: black;"> <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">began with drifts</span>,</span>__** <span style="color: black;">but have moved on to subversions of the guided tour, the making and placing of détourned signage, collective pilgrimages interweaving multiple-practices and improvisations and the distributions of guides, handbooks, maps and toolkits as provocations for others to make their own resistant walking. [7] While I have attempted elsewhere - online and in Mythogeography (2010, Axminster, UK: Triarchy Press) – to document these experiments and those conducted by others and to tentatively build a critical scaffold around them, it is the historical dérive that remains the dominant example of the 'ideal' collective walk (despite other models from urban exploration, deep mapping, live art and pedestrian activism). By attaching a plethora of variegated practices and other models of small group intervention to this 'ideal' I hope, here, to shift the dérive a little from the centre of the orrery of these multiplicitous practices; to set in motion other bodies of attraction. [8] </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">Given the benefit to these small group practices of the deferral of ends</span><span style="color: black;"> – including the deferral of even discussing ends for as long as possible - <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">a key dynamic of such 'drifting groups without destinations' can be understood through a creative system</span></span>__<span style="color: black;"> identified (in stark corporeal terms well suited to an immersed walking group) by the artist Matthew Barney. In this system 'Situation' (no relation) is the raw energy and drive of undirected intentionality, 'Condition' is the direction and digestion of this energy, and 'Production' is its oral/anal expression in the form of excretions of art, political actions, etc. Barney's creative method is to disrupt this sequence, deferring 'Production' again and again and repeatedly folding 'Condition' back into 'Situation', whirling the latter's energy again and again in a violent short circuiting through the funnel of 'Condition' until the organic structure of the process cannot sustain itself as its accelerates, at which [9] Similarly, </span>__<span style="color: black;">a drifting group </span>__<span style="color: black;">(with neither end nor destination) </span>__<span style="color: black;">bounces back and forth between different theoretical positions in the course of a single drift </span>__<span style="color: black;">– between (a more or less understood) Debord, Bachelard and Baudrillard, for example – drawing, opportunistically, from different theories as they are required; contesting the dominance of visuality one moment, drawing pseudo-evolutionary allusions or tracing a string of voids the next. Ideally (because, for the sake of this argument, they are an 'ideal'), such a group would extend their versatile inconsistency until it becomes an unsustainable contradiction; when unexpected, unplannable, inconvenient praxes are hurled off. [10] What Barney's model seeks to do is pre-empt reproduction, to disrupt the tendency of 'creative' or disruptive action to follow a course of least resistance to a product, to find its way too quickly, efficiently and conveniently to an outcome (when production takes on the quality of an organism's excretion). [11] Among drifting groups certain productive scenarios recur, such as the play of childhood, attraction to ruins and the morbid, the seeking out of the 'hidden', the identification of occulted and occult iconographies or ironical and accidental signage, and trespass. While these may constitute the parts of a resistant walk, because they are familiar products of many drifts they can also pre-empt its destinationless engagement by a premature gratification (a powerful tool of the Spectacle) through the manifestation of what might already have been expected (or at least predicted). The result can be an immersion in a milieu (occult, anecdotal, historiographical); momentum is lost and a subtle bounding of space is imposed or adopted. [12] However, </span>__<span style="color: black;">by deferring the gratification</span>__<span style="color: black;"> (for example, by disrupting an action to maintain it in simultaneous development with others</span>__<span style="color: black;">) <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">territorialisation can be suspended to allow more and more layering of activities, one upon another</span>: play upon vandalism upon mapping upon sculpting trash upon booby-trapping upon poetry upon dance</span>__<span style="color: black;">… </span>__<span style="color: black;">until the group itself cannot cope with the multiplicity of its own processes </span>__<span style="color: black;">and, in that crisis, can retreat to a milieu or crash on to something or somewhere that is unexpected, unplanned and (this is the key political and reproducible aspect) uncontainable. [13] This is not unlike the strategy of communes that is proposed by The Invisible Committee as a part of social insurrection: </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">it's not about possessing territory. Rather it's a matter of increasing the density of the communes, of circulation, and of solidarities to the point that the territory becomes unreadable, opaque to all authority</span>__<span style="color: black;">… Every practice brings a territory into existence – a dealing territory, or a hunting territory; a territory of child's play, of lovers… or flaneurs. </span>__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; color: black;">The rule is simple: the more territories there are superimposed on a given zone, the more circulation there is between them, the harder it will be for power to get a handle on them</span>__<span style="color: black;">… (The Invisible Committee, 2009:108) and the greater the likelihood that outcomes are unplannable and uncontainable, not only for those who seek to control them, but (more importantly for a situationist politics) for those who seek to create them, for, according to a situationist critique of the Spectacle, it is by such creators (who are the subjects of this essay, and I include my own culpability) that some of the most effective policing of geographical power is carried out [14] A charged drift, capable of resisting the rush to produce and folding back its own energies upon itself, may serve as a disruption of everyday life, but it is not a substitute or replacement for it; the disruptiveness of the drifting group is neither the portal to a lifestyle choice, nor a day pass to a new milieu. While it may disrupt the quotidian, it, in turn, needs to be disrupted by an episodic return to it. (I will argue in the conclusion to this paper that, due to the spectacularisation of everyday life, the charged 'drift' can best re-enter the everyday through intense, but banal spaces such as those of tourism.) </span>

==HTS AFF== 
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Contention One:</span>****<span style="color: black;"> Population of the Occupied</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Rigorous study of the populations of the occupied is in high demand by the warfare state. When shock and awe failed the military turned to a new method of warfare for the 21st century battle field: Counterinsurgency. Under this call to action the Human Terrain System was created under the faux pas of “finding out why the hate us”. Before the military was only interested in the science labs, now the philosophy department is under attack. The military is aggressively recruiting social scientists to be the new vanguard of displinary control.</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Price 2009</span>**<span style="color: black;"> [David, Professor of Anthropology at St. Martins University, Human Terrain System, Anthropologist and the War in Afghanistan, http://www.counterpunch.org/price12012009.html]</span></span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">“A core feature of the Obama administration’s…..programs fit in with the larger developments in robotically dominated battlefields.</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Militarization has come to dominate campuses across the U.S.—this disturbing trend promotes propaganda and indoctrination against the former free spirit of the university, training not students but soldiers.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">Henry A. **Giroux**. Global TV Network Chair in English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University. “The Militarization of US Higher Education after 9/11.” Theory, Culture & Society. 25.5: **2008.** pp. 56-82</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">While the Cold War and Sovietology are gone from the scene…indicating how faculty, students and others can organize to oppose it.”</span>


<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">The military-university complex’s purpose in this resolution is clear—to recruit us intellectuals into the realm of war, to sanitize and bureaucratize the discussion war both thinkable and probable, just as is happening to anthropologists everyday.</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Whitehead 2009</span>**<span style="color: black;"> [Neil L., Professor of AnthropologyAt UW-Madison, Ethnography, Tourture and the Human Terrain/ Terror Systems, Fast Capitalism 5.2, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/5_2/Whitehead5_2.html]]</span>]</span></span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">“Anthropologists are currently working on topics to do…. and from which it has yet to detach itself.”</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Our bodies and voices have become the battlegrounds upon which consent to militarism is fought, paralleling the use of torture in forcing the subject to speak the language of the state, a way of forcing the other to be interactive, campaigns violence are fought for in our name but not with our voice.</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Whitehead 2009</span>**<span style="color: black;"> [Neil L., Professor of AnthropologyAt UW-Madison, Ethnography, Tourture and the Human Terrain/ Terror Systems, Fast Capitalism 5.2, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/5_2/Whitehead5_2.html]</span></span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">“Among the many questions provoked by the…. resistant subject no longer has to suffer the cultural interrogation of the ethnographer.”</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;"> [A] Thus, the United States Federal government should withdraw all Human Terrain Systems personnel from topically designated areas.</span>**</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">[B] We affirm the resolution through a re-articulation of the confronted anthropologist as an ethical actor that resists militarism within the dominant narrative of the military-university complex.</span>**</span>



<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Contention Two: The Duty to Disobey</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Against the constant pressure to enlist into the military-university complex, the duty to disobey is a rupture that believes in the possibility of ethics.</span>**</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Our ethical framework is the care of the self—the critical anthropologist’s disobedience in the face of the disciplinary forces of the military-university complex is a recognition and transgression of its normalizing limitations that is irreducible to political success or failure. Defiance is an act imbued with the message that ethics is the only practice of liberty and liberty the only meaning of ethics.</span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">James W. **Bernauer** and Michael **Mahon.** Professor of Philosophy at Boston College and Associate Pofessor of Humanities at Boston University. “Michel Foucault’s Ethical Imagination.” The Cambridge Companion to Foucault. Ed. Gutting. **2005**. pp. 150-153 jv [THIS EVIDENCE HAS BEEN GENDER-MODIFIED]</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">“The explicit ethical voice that sounds in Foucault’s last writings… rejection that could itself become a political force.1”</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">Our ethics requires looking beyond the politics of life and death—our practice of liberty from the nuclear state represents an impatience that will not submit to a hypothetical, messianic future</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">James W. **Bernauer** and Michael **Mahon**. Professor of Philosophy at Boston College and Associate Professor of Humanities at Boston University. “Michel Foucault’s Ethical Imagination.” The Cambridge Companion to Foucault. Ed. Gutting**. 2005**. pp. 162-164jv [THIS EVIDENCE HAS BEEN GENDER-MODIFIED]</span>

<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">“What is the necessity of these new relations?... any abstract principle to name itself the human essence.”</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.25pt;">**<span style="color: black;">A true ethical evaluation necessitates forgoing strict morality and utilitarian rationalism—both are only outgrowths of law’s conceptual domination that limit ethical possibilities. We affirm a loose moral framework that allows for an ethics of existence—the ability for individuals to negotiate their position relative to this framework.</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">Mark **Bevir**. Professor of Political Science at the University of California, Berkeley. “Foucault and Critique: Deploying Agency Against Autonomy.” Political Theory. 27: **1999**. pp. 65-84//jv [THIS EVIDENCE HAS BEEN GENDER-MODIFIED]//</span>

//<span style="color: black; line-height: 14.25pt;">I hope my discussion of Foucault’s theory of governmentality… though our personal, ethical conduct.</span>//


//**2AC JAZZ**//
//**AT: consult/condition cps**//
//We cannot universalize or declare their exception—even if they win their net-benefit, acknowledging its exemption ruins any meaning of ethics.//

//Slavoj <span class="CITEChar">Žižek</span>.// In Defense of Lost Causes//. <span class="CITEChar">2008</span>. pp. 46-50//
//<span class="8ptCharChar">One of the great ironies of our predicament is that this same</span>**......**//
//<span class="UNDERLINEChar">the growth of our spontaneous moral sensitivity</span>.//


== == 

==//Baudrillard aff//== 


//<span style="line-height: normal;">**We begin with two different ways to evaluate a debate round:**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**Judgment: a metaphysical view harkening back to prophetic claims of judgment day, putting you in the position to decide between good and evil. This type of thinking is aligned with the empire of good.**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**OR**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**We say that you should evaluate our arguments as expressive of our life stories and views on life. Our strategy will be expressive of our genuine affirmation of destiny and sovereignty though our radical conception of speaking evil. This is opposed to the empire of good.**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">Use the ballot as a rupture in the form of a singularity into the banal debate system by a breaking-in of our critique and speaking evil into the machine.</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">Baudrillard in 98 [Jean, dead french dude, Paroxysm, p. 51]</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">his singularity....form of destiny</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**So, we affirm resolved: that the United States Federal Government should substantially reduce military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, Turkey.**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**Our affirmation comes about through our fatal strategy of thinking evil. We Affirm the resolution as it is affirming the evil from the resolution that exists in a way that does not attempt to make the world better.**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**To think evil means that we are complicit in everything that happens to us. Our participation in the intelligence of evil acknowledges that we are great enough for our own evil genius.**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**Baudrillard in 05 [Jean, dead french dude, The Intelligence of Evil, p. 151-154]**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**__Then we shall see no end to compensating__**</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">We draw a distinction between two types of strategies – the fatal and the banal. Critical theory is banal, always recycling the same notions of subjectivity, responsibility, and dialectical progress.</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">Our strategy is fatal – it is aligned with fate, and is desired to die. The subject and the object are reversible and irreconcilable. Our fatal strategy analyzes the world from the perspective of the object because that view diverts the system and object from its intended goal.</span>//

//<span style="line-height: normal;">Debate has a fatal destiny, it was invented as a rational political medium, but that has been abandoned. Debate mirrored the political disenchantment for students through the civil rights era. It is now a magical medium, void of the real. </span>//



//<span style="line-height: normal;">We are resolved to become resolution. The 1ac adopts the resolution as a strategy of destiny. We affirm the evil of the resolution, we put subjectivity back onto the path of disappearance that puts us on a chain of symbolic forms causing a transference of identity and destiny that makes life sovereign. </span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">Baudrillard in 05 [Jean, dead french dude, The Intelligence of Evil, p. 207-212]</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">**__We have all been everywhere in some past life....__**a kind of happy predestination. </span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">The fate of our current world is at an exponential stake, all of society is caught up in the condemnation and re-imbursement of misfortunes in a massive whitewashing of history and suffering. But this is were we are headed, let us not turn our heads abashedly. We can’t go back and change history. Instead we should transfer the whole terrorist battle for and against the system to the symbolic level where we as individuals capable of radical thought have the upper hand. Any combat or change that the lever of the real fails because it still participates in the fundamental nature of the modern world system. The empire of the good. The real is stuck in a cycle of misfortune and social violence that must be dislodged and put onto a different trajectory, at the symbolic level.</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal; margin-bottom: 0.0001pt;">The evisceration of evil only exacerbates problems symbolically – this is why speaking evil is important. It teaches us to make symbolic problems disappear from the symbolic and is not involved in producing more economies of violence and misfortune.</span>//



//<span style="line-height: normal;">We make a distinction between misfortune and evil. We don’t ignore the material reality of misfortune, rather our argument is we need a new radical conception of it. Our whole social order operates on a fascination of misfortune the only ever ends up reproducing the faults it tries to mete out. Legal suits, welfare, and social services are products of our culture of victimization, the prevalent belief that reparations are needed for misfortune. The separation of good and evil organizes everything, and the attempt to reduce this dualism to a binary of happiness and misfortune creates a denial of life in the denial of the fateful and inherent aspects of suffering and misfortune. Speaking with the intelligence of evil isn’t a rejection of good but more or less an affirmation that there is a play between good and evil, between perfection and reversibility that run the show. However the idea of a culture of victimization is that evil does not exist, that all problems are just issues of misfortune and can be solved by more good; this negation of the existence of evil only makes it violently resurgence in the form of more misfortune in favor of a radical thinking that dysfunction and evil are human destiny and instead of being the victims of life we are the actors of our own death.</span>//
//<span style="line-height: normal;">Baudrillard and L’yvonnet in 04 [Jean, dead french dude, Interview with Francois L’yvonnet, Fragments, p. 59-63]</span>//
**__L<span style="color: #424142;">e</span>t <span style="color: #424142;">u</span>s t<span style="color: #424142;">a</span>k<span style="color: #424142;">e </span>on this <span style="color: #040305;">p</span>rob<span style="color: #040305;">l</span>em of evi<span style="color: #040305;">l </span><span style="color: #424142;">m</span>or<span style="color: #424142;">e </span>fr<span style="color: #424142;">on</span>t<span style="color: #424142;">a</span><span style="color: #040305;">ll</span>y<span style="color: #424142;">,</span>__** <span style="color: #424142;"> .....</span> //<span style="color: #0c0b0c;">equilibrium of th</span><span style="color: #252425;">e </span><span style="color: #3a3a3b;">o</span><span style="color: #0c0b0c;">r</span><span style="color: #252425;">de</span><span style="color: #0c0b0c;">r o</span><span style="color: #252425;">f </span><span style="color: #0c0b0c;">thin</span><span style="color: #515051;">g</span><span style="color: #0c0b0c;">s</span><span style="color: #252425;">.</span>//






=Negative= 
==Generic K aff Case Frontline== 
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The 1ac is a eulogy. A discourse promoting civic life and producing social death. Debate is nothing more than an extension of the University. Our self-contained discourse only allows power to turn us into to ghosts, buried deep into the catacombs of empty school buildings. This ensures that our resistance is buried and power is masked. Debate is a mausoleum of theories of power, critique, and resistance - ideas that were once alive but now filtered, managed, and expected by the machinations of Academia. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Occupied UC Berkeley 2k9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 12px;">[</span>__<span style="font-size: 12px;">http://anticapitalprojects.wordpress.com/2009/11/19/the-necrosocial/</span>__<span style="font-size: 12px;">, the necrosocial: civic life, social death, and the UC, nov. 19,]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 16px;">Yes, very much a cemetery. …..Who doesn’t participate in this graveyard?</span>__


**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Their discursive focus on the state as the main cite for social change only severs to indoctrinate us in the drive for power. Instead of investing us with radical potential the aff only end up teaching us the art, science, logic, and calculations of murder. </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Holloway,2002 </span>****[John, //Change the World Without Taking Power: The Meaning of Revolution Today,// London, Pluto Press]**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The focusing of revolution on the winning of state power thus involves the abstraction of the state from the social relations of which it is part. Conceptually</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">, the state is cut out from the clutter of …..</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the very antithesis of self-determination.</span>






**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Their impact calculus and public sphere arguments not only rely on a notion of subjectivity that is itself produced by their analysis of some imagined “primary” discourse. The ballot becomes an image through which students passively live vicariously in an acceptance of social death that means their opposition is always owned by that which it opposes. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Occupied UC Berkeley 2k9 </span>****[__http://anticapitalprojects.wordpress.com/2009/11/19/the-necrosocial/__, the necrosocial: civic life, social death, and the UC, nov. 19,]**
<span style="font-size: 16px;"> __In the university ….It’s the particular nature of being owned.__ </span>




==Atomic Pessimism== 
**As a response to the science fiction story of the 1AC, we’d like to read excerpts of Harlan Ellison’s short story, __I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream__ written in 1967.**
**Here’s the setting – The Nuclear Weapons complex is AM – the Allied Mastercomputer, the Adaptive Manipulator and the Aggressive Menace. But it’s also just AM – the “am” in “I think therefore I am”. The vast technocratic expanse of nuclear war planning has become self-aware and made humanity, what’s left of it, its slave.**

“<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">What does AM mean?</span>” …<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">and AM brought us down here.”</span>

**The affirmative fails to understand the true nature of the nuclear weapons culture. Rationality and truth cannot save us. The affirmative reliance on reason makes them no different from AM – a machine incapable of feeling anything but hate.**

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">AM went into my mind….</span>I suppose we had wanted to be stopped.

**Our story ends as it should – in tragic pessimism. The true hero of the story of nuclear weapons is the one who does the only compassionate act – kill the other survivors and live our you life as a horrendous parody of humanity**

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Surrounded by madness, …I have no mouth. And I must scream.</span>

**A fundamental difference between our fiction and that of the aff is pessimism. The aff tells an optimistic story of how we can all come together and solve a potential impact, our story ends in a much more realistic manner – we are all going to die and there is nothing we can do about it. This story serves to make listeners self reflexive and self critical. Only by imagining our most evil, not most heroic, potential can we accept responsibility for bringing the world to the precipice of extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dienstag 4</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Joshua Foa, Associate Professor of Politics at the University of Virginia. Tragedy, Pessimism, Nietzsche. New Literary History 34:1 Project Muse</span>
So, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">while the pessimistic conception ….speak of a terror that liberates</span>. 

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">The affirmative’s ultimate failure is one of understanding culture. Nuclear weapons did not produce culture, rather they were the product of a particular culture which created the musket, the submarine and the machine gun. There is nothing special about nuclear weapons, they are just our most recent fixation. Only pessimistic fiction can rupture that culture and prevent extinction.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Franklin</span>, 200<span style="font-size: 16px;">8</span>** (H. Bruce, John Cotton Dana Professor of English and American Studies at Rutgers University, //War Stars: The Superweapon and the American Imagination//, P. 167-169)
Instead, <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">the superweapon now attained the …</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">people to prevent nuclear war—so far</span>.


==Scream K== 
**A.we start with the alternative: [scream]**

**We offer our scream as the only thing we can do in the face of a mutilated world as well as a world only seen as mutilated. Our visceral rejection of the world-as-is is the starting point for resistance from our own souls not from passive ivory towers. Change only comes from radical refusal and negativity, not rational discourse. This is our scream of rage, of anger, of opposition to the horrors of our world.**
**Holloway 2002** **<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[John, //Change the World Without Taking Power: The Meaning of Revolution Today,// London, Pluto Press]</span>**
__In the beginning is the scream. We scream__.<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> …</span>This is what we must cling to. 

**And our scream isn’t part of any bigger picture, rather it is just our affirmation of rejection. Social analysis and critical theory only serve to exclude or dilute or rage into mediated discourse. Before all else we have to reserve our ability to rage and scream in the midst of academia. Instead of opting for studying on the oppression of others we should focus on our own massive frustration with the system. Holloway, 2002** **<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">[John, //Change the World Without Taking Power: The Meaning of Revolution Today,// London, Pluto Press]</span>**'Cling to', indeed, for __there is so much to …**but this is our starting point: we scream.'**__ 

==Simulations 1NC== 
**The aff’s liberation is horseshit. Their advocacy is no different than avatar: big, flashy, politically correct but in the end nothing more that simulated images splayed across a screen. We have moved passed the realm of the panopticon to the age of the hyperreal. Where we are constantly told to become the model. The façade and simulacrum of dialectical challenge is how power sustains and legitimizes itself.** 
**Baudrillard in 94**<span class="Style2Char"> [Jean, dead french dude, Simulacra and Simulation, pg. 21-22]</span>
<span style="font-size: 12px;">TV verite. A term admirable in its ambiguity, …simple elements are indecipherable, whose truth is indecipherable.</span>



**The 1ac’s images of violence are just as deadly in their viral simulated state. The only true violence is the violence committed mentally against ourselves by these images. Also the psychosis of deterrence that stems from this violence end up in an evisceration of sovereign life itself.** 
**Baudrillard in 88** [ Jean, dead french dude, America,1988, pg. 40-42 ]
**__Everywhere survival has …__**protective bubble or other. 





**We consume these images thinking that it’s liberating. But the medium is the message. That message does absolutely nothing, it is nothing more that blackmail that keeps us coming back to consume more. We mustn’t try and fight challenge the system but rather simply reject the simulation and refuse to consume its images. Since the system sustains itself on the participating and liberating citizen to produce speech. In stead of speak out against the system, we must not speak at all.** 
**Baudrillard in 94**<span class="Style2Char">[Jean, dead french dude, Simulacra and Simulation, 1994 ,pg. 58-59]</span>
With one caution. …**__entropic strategy of the system.__**  

==Plan Text PIC== 
Contention One is the Advocacy:
<span style="font-size: 16px;">We affirm the schizoanalytic politics of the 1AC as a means of political strategy but reject the use of a government based plan of action.</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The 1AC simultaneously defends two interpretations of political strategy. There is a plan-oriented pragmatic strategy which surrounds the one sentence traditional plan text. There is also a (whatever they say) which is described by (however they describe it)</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Our alternative is exclusive to the first part of their strategy. Instead of engaging the state, you should disconnect yourself from the state, from collectives, from everything bigger than our agency. It is only when desire is confined and controlled, added to some larger pool, that we lose sight of our ability to form unique judgments and come to unique conclusions. Recognizing this individualism is necessary to challenge fascism</span>
Deleuze and Guattari, 1987<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> [A Thousand Plateaus pg 158-159]</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">We have come to the gradual ….</span>perceptions and I have believed in them.”

Contention Two is Competition
<span style="font-size: 16px;">They have to defend the plan as the outcome of their political process.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">First is neg ground – our best offense is to the ways their philosophy can be applied to the topic. Everyone would agree in the abstract that fascism is bad but how we politicize that advocacy is where we get link ground</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Second is predictability – they read a plan text in the 1AC and its context is left unexplained. Our pre-round and pre-tournament prep assumes the defense of the plan – pre-round prep is our only chance to develop contextual strategies against shady critical affs – damage to it outweighs because the alternative is another boring framework debate</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Third is severance - New framework explanations in the 2AC which eliminate the plans importance are severance out of the only stable 1AC advocacy. Unfair because the 1NC strategy is predicated off of the plans existence which creates a moving target where we can’t ever generate offense.</span>

Contention Three is the Net Benefits

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Link 1 is the Fixidity of the Plan – Rhizomatic politics form possibilities but the plan is a certainty – regardless of the process which results in the plan, it stands as a transcendent monument to the future goals of the movement. Because the plan dictates what the possible outcomes of rhizomatic politics can and cannot be, it has already sacrificed the ability to think creatively which is necessary to overcome the states attempt at counter-revolution</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Goddard in 2k6</span>(July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm)
What this type of radio achieved most of all was the ….to outline projections of societal change.”



<span style="font-size: 16px;">Link 2- It’s basically a prisoners dilemma – the state will adapt and follow your politics. It is worthless to challenge the state in a race to control – they have the lead and will copy our strategies before they can become successful. Their political strategy is doomed to failure.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dixit and Nalebuff 1993</span> (Avinash, John F. Sherrard University Professor of Economics at Princeton and Barry, Professor of economics and management at the yale school of organization and management. "Thinking Stategically")
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">After the first four races in the 1983 America’s Cup Finals</span>, ….believe in the merits of their course.

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Link Three is the Agency Trade-off DA: their focus on the government as the site for transformative politics trades-off with immediate micropolitical activism. Waiting for the rev to gain momentum ignores the power we already have to create change. Your role is to dismiss the promise of future change to affirm already existing struggles</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Parnet 87</span> (Gilles and Claire, profs of philosophy: Dialogues II: p. 146-147)
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">What characterizes our….., at every level, in every place.</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Link Four is Goals versus the Process - The status quo is paranoiac even in its attempt at counter culture. Status quo methodology confines experimentation to only processes with set goals in mind, destroying these movements from the beginning. We must instead abandon these final goals and embrace free thought.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Deleuze and Guattari 1972</span>, Anti-Oedipus, 370-1
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The codes and their signifiers</span> , ……<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">proceeds-art as "experimentation.'</span>

==Speaking Evil 1NC== 
1NC-
//**We disagree with the aff on the status of good and evil – they say good and evil are moral or polemic terms, descriptive of two qualitatively different acts. We say that such claim are naïve. Evil is a real part of our existence but not the will to exterminate. That desire is of the objective force of good, the will to sameness, the view of the revisionist, and the condemning and whitewashing of history. The attempt to eradicate the evils of the world is responsible for the most atrocious acts of history. The aff will say we’ll go extinct; such claims are only expressive of the psychosis and fantasy of the collective ‘good’. This is simply a nihilistic denial of the most intense form of reality.**//
//**Baudrillard and L’yvonnet in 04 [Jean, dead french dude, Interview with Francois L’yvonnet, Fragments, p. 105-111]**//
//Just <span style="color: #1c1c1d;">a</span>s freedom for<span style="color: #1c1c1d;">c</span>es its<span style="color: #1c1c1d;">e</span>lf upon us <span style="color: #1c1c1d;">a</span>s the e<span style="color: #1c1c1d;">a</span>si<span style="color: #1c1c1d;">es</span>t solution ....//
//<span style="color: #252526;">a</span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">nd nothin</span><span style="color: #252526;">g </span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">is for the best in th</span><span style="color: #252526;">e </span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">b</span><span style="color: #252526;">es</span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">t of a</span><span style="color: #000001;">l</span><span style="color: #0c0b0d;">l worlds</span><span style="color: #252526;">. </span>//

//**Our alternative isn’t one action to advocate but a strategy or process whereby we can come to an understanding with evil. We’ll call this strategy “speaking evil” – not an act one and done. But a way of thinking and action, even in our attempts to overcome some forms of violence, that always respects that evil is an inevitable force in our world. Their death threats are just a mirror of the suicidal violence of the good. Within the debate round we can let a theater of cruelty be splayed across the screen of our bodies in order to fully play out and make a drama of the perverse. Only by positioning ourselves as our own agon can we begin to understand the convulsion of the world order. This is the intelligence of evil.**//
//Baudrillard in 05 **[Jean, dead french dude, The Intelligence of Evil, p. 159-164]**//


//**__This, then, is the way__** **__... terrorism is both the event-moment and the image feedback.__**//



//RANDOM 2NC STUFF-//

//**-Regulated exchange of otherness and difference, mandates terror and annihilation of all radical and absolute otherness. Only by rejecting all chance for encounter can the other remain other, and viral racism be combated.**//
//Baudrillard in 93 **[Jean, dead french dude, The Transparency of Evil, pg. 127-130]**//

//what then does it mean to say that women are the other for men...the proper use of difference//


**//-The drive of integral reality is one of death, the drive to root out perversity is one of the ideal of perfection and purity. But ironically, the drive to root out misfortune only makes it violently re-emerge and shine through with a vengeance in the system. For example the most deadly viruses originate from sterilized hospitals. What this means is that extinction and exterminations are caused by the integral drive to end misfortune and death. The only way to truly affirm life is though aligning ourselves with Evil.//**
//**Baudrillard in 05** [Jean, dead french dude, The Intelligence of Evil, p. 118-122]//

//**__It is going to be necessary, then, to invent a security system ....where, having shorn them of historical vitality, they are re-projected on to the transpolitical stage of information__**.//




//**-We don’t cause exterminations or provide irresponsible ethics. In fact the rational logical order of good is what creates the possibility of cleansing, wars, and genocides. If when good is pushed to the limit it produces negative aspects, then pushing the thinking of evil to its limits will produce good.**//
//**Baudrillard and L’yvonnet in 04 [Jean, dead french dude, interview with Francois L’yvonnet, Fragments, p.64]**//

Where evil's concerned, you abandon....//**__evil is pushed to a certain limit, it too produces good__**.//



**//<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">-The 1ac’s images of violence are just as deadly in their viral simulated state. The only true violence is the violence committed mentally against ourselves by these images. Also the psychosis of deterrence that stems from this violence end up in an evisceration of sovereign life itself. </span>//**
//**<span style="font-variant: small-caps;">Baudrillard in 88</span>**<span class="Style2Char"> **[** Jean, dead french dude, America,1988, pg. 40-42 ]</span>//

//**__Everywhere survival has become a burning issue...withdraw__** into some protective bubble or other//




**//-Objective expertism turns the world into a dry space unable to differentiate the human and the inhuman; the living and the non-living and causes annihilation//**
//**Baudrillard in 92**[ Jean, dead french dude, The Illusion of the End, pg. 95-96]//



//<span style="line-height: 13pt; text-align: justify;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">What is currently taking place in transmutation’s ....of the living by the non-living, of sex by the unsexed.</span></span></span>//




//**-Because of the showing through of evil in all acts of good, we should realize that politics should be the inclusion of evil in the order of things. Instead of denying it, we should play with it in realms of though in order to conclude that there is no standpoint to develop an absolute “good” or absolute “evil”.**//
//**Baudrillard in 03 [Jean, dead french dude, passwords, p. 33-36]**//

//**All 'transparency' immediately raises the question.....the perfection itself that is criminal.**//




//**-Trying to describe an objective reality is impossible. Thought must be used to unmask this vital illusion of reality.**//
//**Baudrillard in 05 [Jean, dead french dude, The Intelligence of Evil, pg. 39-41]**//

//**__The invention of Reality, unknown to other cultures....__**and in which the object IS not localizable as such either.//




//**-They say the critique does nothing and only slips into nihilism, but if constantly checking the system in open light even if there is no hope is nihilistic – then so be it.**//
//Baudrillard in 94 [Jean, dead french dude, Simulacra and Simulation, accessed online, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.egs.edu/faculty/baudrillard/baudrillard-simulacra-and-simulation-18-on-nihilism.html]]</span>]//
//**__Nihilism no longer wears the dark...__**including that of the terrorist, still had meaning.//




//**-Basically Kellner has no idea what the fuck he is talking about.**//
//**Gane in 91 [Mike, Senior Lecturer in Department of Social Sciences, Loughborough University, Baudrillard-Critical and Fatal Theory, pg. 178-182]**//

//Although this short book,// America,// has been widely reviewed....
changing analyses of the object form.







[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]