[[toc]]

[[2010-2011 — Edina (MN) — Mimi Sergent-Leventhal & Erin Sielaff|Back to Main Page]]


=Futenma CP= 


==1NC - Glenbrooks (vs. Damien MM)== 




The United States federal government should: 
--limit the number and intensity of training exercises conducted at Futenma while increasing dialogue with Okinawa locals over how to reduce community intrusion 
--allow Japan to assume partial operation control of the III Marine Expeditionary Force 
--pursue a bilateral agreement with Japan affirming a joint commitment to a continued, long-term US air and naval presence at Kadena and Yokosuka 
--develop and implement a mobile Sea Basing naval capability as quickly as possible aimed at ensuring adequate United States forward deployment and power projection capabilities. 



Partial restructuring is enough to solve the aff 
Chaffin 10/5/2010 – Foreign Policy in Focus (Greg, FPIF, “Okinawa and the Changing U.S.-Japan Alliance”, http://www.fpif.org/articles/okinawa_and_the_changing_us-japan_alliance, WEA) 

In the meantime, the status [...] as engage in the democratic process. 

Their 1ac author concludes in favor 
Ennis 10, former member of the Council on Foreign Relations task forces regarding Japan, former Research Fellow at Dartmouth’s Dickey Center for International Understanding, long-time analyst of U.S.-Japan relations, U.S. Correspondent for Keekly Tokyo Keizai, founder of The Oriental Economist, 6-8-10 (Peter, “Jeff Bader, Mike Green hit critics of Obama Futenma policy,” Dispatch Japan, http://www.dispatchjapan.com/blog/2010/06/jeff-bader-mike-green-hit-critics-of-obama-futenma-policy.html) 

It’s not too late for the [...] renewed tensions between Washington and Tokyo. 

Seabasing solves—makes the aff unnecessary 
Houck in ‘5 (Lt. Colonel Dale, USMC, “USAWC STRATEGY RESEARCH PROJECT SEABASING: A CRITICAL ENABLER OF THE JOINT EXPEDITIONARY FORCE”, 3-18, http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/ksil224.pdf) 

Sea basing is an operational concept [...] are located along the world’s littorals. 






=Deterrence DA= 





==1NC - Greenhill (vs. Round Rock AS)== 


Military presence vital to East Asian stability – withdrawal causes escalating wars and Japanese prolif. 
Wortzel 2k- Director of the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation 
(8/10/00, “US forces remain critical to Northeast Asian security” pg online @ lexisnexis) 

WASHINGTON - There has been a [...] assurance of security disappear as well. 


Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT. 
Halloran, 2009 
[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http: www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html] 

That anxiety has reinvigorated a debate [...] huddled under the US nuclear umbrella. 


Nuclear war 
Cimbala, 2008 
[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld] 

If the possibility existed of a [...] or marginalization of major interstate warfare. 




==BMD Links (vs. Mountain Brook GH)== 



BMD has a deterrent effect 
Pfaltzgraff et. al. ‘9 
(Robert, President, Ph.D. in PoliSci, Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Prof @ National Defense College, “Boost-Phase Missile Defense: Present Challenges, Future Prospects”, 4-3, The George Marshall Institute, http: www.marshall.org/pdf/materials/653.pdf) 

I understand this in somewhat broader [...] ever to have to use it. 




=Case Answers= 





==Hegemony Answers== 




===1NC - Greenhill (vs. Mountain Brook GH)=== 


U.S. Hegemony will never collapse 
Friedman 09 [George Friedman is an American political scientist and author. He is the founder, chief intelligence officer, financial overseer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. He has authored several books, The Next 100 Years p 13-31] 

We are now in an America [...] century will be the American century. 


US will dominate the international order for at least 50 more years 

Kori Schake, (Research Fellow, Hoover Institution), MANAGING AMERICAN HEGEMONY, 2009, 3. 

American success is, not surprisingly [...] for at least another half century. 


Japan can’t rise – stagnated economy 

Conrad Blank, writer, 2/18/10, “The U.S. is in Decline -- But It's Still Leading”, AINA, http: www.aina.org/news/20100218115056.htm, umn-rks 

Japan, which only 20 years [...] detaching from it to appease China. 


==Public Backlash Advantage Answers==

===1NC - Harvard (vs. Greenhill BU)===

Public opposition irrelevant
Yeo 10 Andrew, Anti-Base Movements in South Korea: Comparative Perspective on the Asia-Pacific, 14 June 2010, http://www.japanfocus.org/-Andrew-Yeo/3373, AMiles)

Although anti-base movements may  [...] U.S. military presence.


Backlash in Okinawa doesn’t equate to national opposition
MDN 9/15 (The Mainichi Daily News, Disappointment in Okinawa over Kan's re-election as DPJ leader, 2010, http://mdn.mainichi.jp/mdnnews/news/20100915p2a00m0na004000c.html, AMiles)

Kan won 249 of the 300  [...] general of the DPJ's prefectural chapter.


No impact to public outcry—they can’t force change
Telegraph 6-20-2010  [“Eye on the main chance”, Lexis]

The DPJ has had limited success  [...] one at Guantanamo in communist Cuba. 




==Kadena Advantage Answers==

===1NC - Harvard (vs. Greenhill BU)===

Kadena fails
Klinger, 2009 [Bruce, Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, “U.S. Should Stay Firm on Implementation of Okinawa Force Realignment,” 12-16, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2009/12/us-should-stay-firm-on-implementation-of-okinawa-force-realignment]

Insufficient Capacity at Kadena Air Base  [...] Futenma lacks ammunition-loading facilities.


No escalation – China won’t use nuclear weapons
Pike ’04 (John, Global Security, China’s Options in the Taiwan Confrontation, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/ops/taiwan-prc.htm)

China would almost certainly not contemplate  [...] detonations would cause utterly disproportionate destruction.


No Taiwan war --- no one wants it- pandas prove
Pei ’06 (Minxin, senior associate and director of the China program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 2/8. “Chen’s Gamble to Stay Relevant.” Straits Times, Carnegie Endowment online.)

Not too long ago, the  [...] attention to show his political relevance.


Growth checks
Perry and Scowcroft 9 William (Michael and Barbara Berberian professor at Stanford University.) and Brent (resident trustee of the Forum for International Policy.) “US Nuclear Weapons Policy.” 2009. Council on Foreign Relations. Online.

Economic interdependence provides an incentive to  [...] promising dialogues on larger strategic issues.


So do nukes
Lieber and Press '06 (Keir A. Lieber - assistant professor in the Department of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, PhD from the University of Chicago, held fellowships from the Brookings Institution, Earhart Foundation, John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Andrew Mellon Foundation, and Smith Richardson Foundation, AND Daryl G. Press - Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth, PhD in political science at MIT, associate of the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard; "The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy", Foreign Affairs Vol. 85, Iss. 2, pg. 42, Mar/Apr 2006, ProQuest)


China's nuclear arsenal is even more  [...] it for a decade or more.

No motive
Bremmer, 10 – president of Eurasia Group and author (Ian Bremmer, “China vs. America: Fight of the Century,” Prospect, March 22, 2010, http://www.prospectmagazine.co.uk/2010/03/china-vs-america-fight-of-the-century/)

China will not mount a military  [...] Taiwan’s business elite privileged investment opportunities.


Air power fails—even with perfect technology lack of information will hinder operations
ARKIN 2002 (William, Senior Military Adviser, Human Rights Watch, NPR, July 24)

Mr. ARKIN: Well,  [...] order to implement our own strategies.


Turn—Casualty Aversion
Airpower creates a mentality of casualty aversion that limits the use of ground forces but increases over all interventions because they are perceived as low-cost—this destroys U.S. credibility
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

Evocations of the casualty-aversion  [...] require escalation to achieve success.50


Casualty aversion encourages enemy aggression and causes them to reject diplomacy—it also makes ground forces less credible
LACQUEMENT 2004 (Lt. Col. Richard, Naval War College Review, Winter)

There was continuous commentary on the  [...] of ground troops, a bluff.


Turn—Technology Obsession
Enhanced airpower encourages the United States to focus entirely on technology—this undermines other strategies, crushes leadership, and hurts relations with Russia and China
HENRIKSEN 2000 (Thomas, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Orbis, 2000)

Lord Acton's famous maxim about the  [...] risks and costs of military operations.


Turn—Trade-Off
Enhanced airpower decreases ground force deployments and covert action
HENRIKSEN 2000 (Thomas, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Orbis, 2000)

All war is hell. But  [...] than once it comes to power.


Covert action is more effective than airpower
HENRIKSEN 2000 (Thomas, senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Orbis, 2000)

Admittedly, the record of achievement  [...] a gun and a redistributive doctrine.


==Alliance Advantage Answers==

===1NC - Harvard (vs. Greenhill BU)===

Security alliance boosts tensions making Sino-Japanese conflict inevitable
The International Herald Tribune March 3, 2005

Perhaps it is time that Asian  [...] major powers to drift toward confrontation.


Empirically, the Alliance does a terrible job of safeguarding regional security
DiFilippo, Sociology Prof, @ Lincoln U, 2002 p. 13 (Anthony, The Challenges of the US-Japan Military Arrangement)

One thing that has not changed  [...] perceives from the other nuclear powers.


US Japan security alliance creates multiple scenarios for escalatory war
DeFilippo 6 (Anthony, Professor of Sociology @ Lincoln University, Japan’s Nuclear Disarmament Policy and the U.S. Security Umbrella, Palgrave Macmillan, 2006, pgs. 25-27)

Most of the strengthening of the  [...] of much of the international community. 


Security alliance critically undermines US relations with Russia. 
DiFilippo 3 (Anthony, Professor of Sociology, Lincoln University, The Challenges of the US – Japan Military Alliance, East Gate Books, 2002) 

The crisis in Yugoslavia also took  [...] Tokyo's objectives in East Asia.' 


Relations key to solve accidental nuclear war – START is no substitute for relations
Cohen 10—prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen, AMiles)

Cohen: The real concern I  [...] tanks, can connect these dots. 


US involvement in Japan kills Sino-Japanese relations
Banning Garrett and Bonnie Glaser, Banning N. Garrett and Bonnie S. Glaser are Washington-based consultants who have written extensively on the U.S.-Soviet-Chinese strategic triangle, Chinese strategic perceptions, and Asian security, April 1997, “Chinese Apprehensions about Revitalization of the U.S.-Japan Alliance”, Published by the University if California Press, Vol. 37, No.4, pg. 383~402, JSTOR

The interaction between China and Japan  [...] about improvements in Sino- American relation


Failure of China-Japan relations leads to nuclear World War III
Anton La Guardia, The Telegraph, “The clouds of nuclear war are still hanging over Hiroshima,” March 8 2005, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/opinion/main.jhtml?xml=/opinion/2005/08/03/do0301.xml AG

In Asia, however, wartime  [...] taboo: developing a nuclear deterrent.


Russia econ resilient – US and China are much worse
Bloomberg 2/2/11 (“ Russia looks better than U.S. or China: Taleb” http://business.financialpost.com/2011/02/02/russia-looks-better-than-u-s-or-china-taleb/)

Nassim Taleb, author of “ [...] requirements for banks to damp inflation.


No chance of resolution over Kurils – talks now will fail but allowing more focus on territorial disputes turns case
China Daily 2/11/11 (“ Territorial dispute to be focus of Russia-Japan talks ” http://www.china.org.cn/world/2011-02/11/content_21896763.htm)

Disputed islands will likely be a  [...] reach because of the territorial dispute. 


==Defense Advantage Answers==

===1NC - Harvard (vs. Greenhill BU)===

MOST RECENT REPORTS SHOW CHINA IS DEVELOPING MIRVS – BUT NO DEPLOYMENT YET
Hoar 9-28 (William, China Embraces U.S. Debt and Technology, The New American, http://www.thenewamerican.com/index.php/reviews/903-correction-please/4704-china-embraces-us-debt-and-technology)

The Pentagon report also notes that  [...] technology on which Lockheed provided assistance.


ONGOING U.S. BMD DEVELOPMENT IS THE UNIQUE CAUSE
LaBauve 09 (“China and Japan’s Strategic Nuclear Relationship,” Jeffrey, Lt., US Navy, BA Tulane, Master’s Thesis, Naval Postgraduate School, http://edocs.nps.edu/npspubs/scholarly/theses/2009/Sep/09Sep_LaBauve.pdf)

These recent changes to China’s nuclear  [...] the survivability of its current nuclear forces


MIRVS CAUSE SINO-CHINA WAR – ENABLES FIRST STRIKE, UNDERMINES STRATEGIC STABILITY
Fravel and Medeiros 10 (Taylor, Professor of Political Science, Senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation until August 2009, and is currently the director for China, Taiwan, and Mongolian Affairs at the National Security Council, China’s Search for Assured Retaliation The Evolution of Chinese Nuclear Strategy and Force Structure, Fall, International Security, Muse)

Looking forward, this situation suggests  [...] opponent’s first strike against China.132


CHINA AND INDIA ARE ON THE BRINK – TIBET, CHINA SUPPORT FOR PAKISTAN, CANCELING OF DEFENSE TALKS PROVE
The Economist 12-16 (“pushing back,” http://www.economist.com/node/17732947)

Ms Rao was responding to the  [...] makes China all the more prickly.


EXTINCTION
Sethi 09 (Manpreet Sethi, December 2009, NUCLEAR DETERRENCE IN SECOND TIER NUCLEAR WEAPON STATES: A CASE STUDY OF INDIA, Dr. Manpreet Sethi is Fellow, International Relations at the Centre de Sciences Humaines, New Delhi. She is also Senior Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies, where she heads the Nuclear Security project. She completed her Ph. D from School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi in 1997 and was on the research faculty of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi from 1997-2001.http://www.csh-delhi.com/publications/downloads/ops/OP25.pdf)

The first factor that is deemed  [...] nations in a mindless nuclear exchange.




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]