[[toc]]
=Questions/Cites/etc.= 
Email [[mailto:Idrissrichard@gmail.com|Idrissrichard@gmail.com]]


=Affirmative= 
== == 
==Advantage 1 is Multilateralism== 

===Scenario 1 is East Asian Regionalism:=== 
**U.S. alliance relationships are unsustainable – Asian powers should develop a regional security strategy that does not rely on the U.S. – solves WMD terrorism, tame China, prevents Sino-Japan conflict, Japan imperialism, solve resource conflicts and stop major power domination**
**Francis, 06** – former Australian Ambassador to Croatia and fellow at the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University from 05-06 (Fall 2006, Neil, Harvard International Review, “For an East Asian Union: Rethinking Asia's Cold War Alliances,” [[http://hir.harvard.edu/index.php?page=article&id=1586]], JMP)
At the conclusion of the... a strong, independent East Asian Union.


**Regionalism is currently halfhearted – only a clear sign of U.S. withdrawal can motivate sustainable regional security cooperation**
**Carpenter and Bandow 4** - * Vice President of Defense and Foreign Studies at the Cato Institute, AND Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute (Ted Galen Carpenter, 12/2004, The Korean Conundrum: America’s Troubled Relations With North and South Korea, pg 160-161)DR
The security treaties with the ... the central and west-central Pacific.


**Specially, withdrawal will reduce Korea’s veto of multilateral security mechanisms – yielding a peace system on the peninsula that prevents great power war**
**Lee, 09** – Seoul National University (December 2009, Geun, “The Nexus between Korea’s Regional Security Options and Domestic Politics,” [[http://www.cfr.org/|www.cfr.org]], JMP)
Korea’s Option of Multilateral Security Cooperation... of the U.S.-Korea alliance.


**Collapse of Asian regionalism leads to extinction**
**Rajaratnam 92**
[S. Rajaratnam, 1992, Former Deputy Prime Minister of Singapore, studied Law at Kings College (London) [[http://www.aseansec.org/13991.htm|www.aseansec.org/13991.htm]]]
Should regionalism collapse, then ASEAN .... war mankind will ever fight.



=== === 
===Scenario 2 is Japan-ROK Relations:=== 


**Japan-South Korean tensions are inevitable**
**Qatar News Agency, 10** (“S Korea PM Calls Japan's Territorial Claim "Foolish".” 4/13, lexis)
South Korean Prime Minister Chung Un-chan ... relations but on Japan's future.

**Consolidating Japan-South Korea relations is key to regional democratization and stability through a multilateral regional order. Specifically in China.**
**Auslin ‘5** (Michael, Teaches Japanese History – Yale and Dir. Project on Japan-U.S. Relations, Orbis, “Japan and South Korea: The New East Asian Core”, 49:3, Summer, ScienceDirect)
A roadmap for Tokyo and ... particularly Taiwan and the Philippines.


**That’s key to reverse a global authoritarian tide and preserve global democracy.**
**Friedman ‘9** (Edward, Prof. Pol. Sci. – U. Wisconsin, Dissent, “China: A Threat to or Threatened by Democracy?” Winter, [[http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=1318]])
THESE CCP antidemocratic policies are ...the global forces of democracy.

**Extinction**
**Diamond, 95** – Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University, founding co-editor of the Journal of Democracy, Professor of Political Science and Sociology and Coordinator of the Democracy Program at the the Center on Democracy at Stanford University (Larry, "Promoting Democracy in the 1990s: Actors and instruments, issues and imperatives : a report to the Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict", December 1995, June 26th 2010, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/di.htm) 
This hardly exhausts the lists ... accountability, popular sovereignty, and openness.


**The plan solves – it creates sustainable, longterm cooperation between Japan and South Korea by forcing regional security cooperation**
**Bandow, 08** - Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute. A former special assistant to President Reagan, he is the author and editor of several books (Doug, “Time to Tell Irresponsible Allies No Thanks,” 9/20,
http://original.antiwar.com/doug-bandow/2008/09/19/time-to-tell-irresponsible-allies-no-thanks/
Six decades have passed since ... responsible leadership in East Asia.


==Advantage 2 is China== 


**The plan eases the transition to a more multipolar world – trying to cling to the status quo makes hegemonic decline and conflict with China inevitable**
**Bandow, 09** – Fellow at the American Conservative Defense Alliance and Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (1/12/09, Doug, “First Among Equals,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=20570]], JMP)
It's the job of military planners ...smoother will be the transition.

**Withdrawal solves accidental war with China, stops friction with Japan and yields a nuclear free peninsula**
**Garfinkle, 03** – taught American foreign policy and Middle East politics at the University of Pennsylvania and is editor of The National Interest (1/27/03, Adam, National Review, “Checking Kim,” [[http://article.nationalreview.com/267742/checking-kim/garfinkle]], JMP) 
NO NORMAL DIPLOMACY - The U.S. finds itself in an unenviable situation: one in which it has no military options, yet normal diplomacy is futile. Diplomacy of the sort being pressed upon the U.S. by South Korea amounts to paying North Koreans ....We can help them do so.


**Conflict with China will escalate to global nuclear war**
**Hunkovic, 09** – American Military University [Lee J, 2009, “The Chinese-Taiwanese Conflict
Possible Futures of a Confrontation between China, Taiwan and the United States of America”, [[http://www.lamp-method.org/eCommons/Hunkovic.pdf]]]
A war between China, Taiwan ... be considered in this study.

**Motivating Beijing to take a greater regional role ensures its peaceful rise**
**Bandow, 09** – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (2/24/09, Doug, “Balancing Beijing,” EBSCO, JMP)
So Washington should exhibit humility ...other’s economic and geopolitical ambitions.

**Plan prompts South Korean conventional force modernization which allows it to deter Chinese aggression**
**Bandow, 09** – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (6/16/09, Doug, “A Tattered Umbrella,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21606]], JMP) 
South Korea’s foreign minister reports ............. dispute into an international crisis.



==**Plan:**== 

==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;"> **The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal to substantially reduce its military presence in South Korea.** </span>== 


==Advantage 3 is Korean Conflict== 


**War is inevitable – geography and military imbalance ensure strategic instability – inevitably provocations will spark a war**
**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;"> Fook Weng Loo</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dec 1, 20</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Professor of War and Strategy at the Institute of Defence and Strategic Studies [Bernard</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.eurasiareview.com/analysis/10121-strategic-instability-in-korea]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nanyang Technological Univ S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS), Strategic Stability</span>



__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Korean Peninsula remains one ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">prevail in Pyongyang as well.</span>




<span class="Underline">**Military presence guarantees US involvement and conflict escalation** </span>
<span class="Underline">**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Hornberger 9</span>** [Jacob, *founder of the Future for Freedom Foundation and former publisher for The Freeman, “Pull Out of Korea (and Everywhere Else),” Future of Freedom Foundation, 6/16, http://www.fff.org/blog/jghblog2009-06-16.asp] </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Notwithstanding its occupations of two ... </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">messes than it already has.</span>



**Even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots causing extinction**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND **Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,”** </span>**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The international community is increasingly ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">consideration from the international community.</span>**





Withdrawal limits the potential for US involvement and escalation stemming from North Korean provocations and causes South Korea to defuse tensions 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Bandow, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute and former Special Assistant to Reagan (5/3/10, Doug, “Taming Pyongyang,” [[http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=23336]], JMP) </span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Suspicions continue to mount that ... </span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">doing so in 2010 is bizarre.</span>**





We solve - withdrawal encourages South Korean independence and regional solutions – North Korean weakness makes war inevitable now 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Trifkovic</span>,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nov 23, 20</span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">10</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - the director of the Center for International Affairs at The Rockford Institute [Dr. Srdja Chronicles Magazine, http://www.chroniclesmagazine.org/2010/11/23/time-to-leave-korea/ </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">North Korea’s artillery attack on ... </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">still stand, word for word.</span>

==Russian Economics== 



**Peaceful US overtures toward Korea is critical to break the deadlock in Russian-DPRK relations and pave the way for a massive expansion of renewed economic ties on the peninsula**
**Joo, 09** – Professor of Political Science at the University of Michigan (April 09, Seung-Horris, “Moscow–Pyongyang Relations under Kim Jong-il: High Hopes and Sober Reality”)
Trade and Investment In the .... in Korea and Northeast Asia.

**A Russian economic collapse will trigger nuclear strikes against the US, provoke a Russo-Sino war, kills the environment, and prolif**
**David 99** – Professor of Political Science at John Hopkins University [Steven R., “Saving America from the Coming Civil Wars,” Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb, LN]
If internal war does strike Russia ... will unleash nuclear weapons against the United States.



**Bostrom 02** (Professor of Philosophy, Yale University Nick, “Existential Risks,” http://www.transhumanist.com/volume9/risks.html)
A much greater existential risk emerged ... will encounter in the 21st century.

**Trans-Korean pipeline solves the environment and Korean war**
**Asakura, 2k** – Director of the Mitsubishi Research Insitute in Director of President Eco and Energy Corp (Kengo, 5/15/2000, Oil & Gas Journal, “Trans-Korean gas pipeline could help Asia energy security, environmental problems” l/n) 
Trans-Korea line pluses Regarding advantages ... "Asian energy community" come true.

**All your disads are non-unique withdrawal is coming**
**Snyder, 08** – Director, Center for U.S.-Korea Policy Senior Associate, International Relations. (5/1/08, Scott, “Future of ROK‐U.S. Relations: U.S. Approach” Presentation 2, Peace in the Korean Peninsula and the Security Environment in Northeast Asia)
Periodic outbursts of anti‐American sentiment ... f of reconciliation with North Korea.

**Realism is true and inevitable – a shift away collapses into chaos.**
**Mearsheimer 2001** [professor of political science at University of Chicago, The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, pg. 361]
The optimists' claim that security competition and war among the great powers has been burned out of the system is wrong. In fact, all of the major states ... Asia for the explicit purpose of keeping the major states in each region at peace.






==Round 7 Glenbrooks - Ms. Pak's 1AC (Narrative)== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">We start with the disclosure of our social location ....</span>**


**Prostitution is prevalent in South Korea**
**Sturdevant and Stoltzfus 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Saundra and Brenda, “Let the Good Times Roll: Prostitution and the U.S. Military in Asia,” 1993, p 173, SLV) </span>


__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">As the evening ended the ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">nightmarish specter in broad daylight.</span>__


__**Ms. Pak’s Story**__

**Sturdevant and Stoltzfus 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Saundra and Brenda, “Let the Good Times Roll: Prostitution and the U.S. Military in Asia,” 1993, p 202, SLV)</span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">At this stage, since we ... </span>____<span style="color: black;">care of them until then."</span>__

=== === 
====**And, thus we think it’s our duty to interject ourselves into the political realm and declare the advocacy statement that the United States federal government should have to get its troops the hell out of South Korea….**==== 
=== === 
=== === 
<span style="font-size: 13px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 19px;">**We can’t remain silent – making the problem known is crucial to solvency**</span>
**Sturdevant and Stoltzfus 93** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Saumndra and Brenda, “Let the Good Times Roll: Prostitution and the U.S. Military in Asia,” 1993, p 169) SLV </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Although I have barely written ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">men who have served there.</span>__



<span class="Underline">**But, we need to allow everyone a voice – we can’t become dogmatic in our opposition ...** </span>


==CIA K Aff== 


===<span class="Underline">Contention One is The Status Quo </span>=== 

<span class="Underline">**The CIA is increasing operations in Iraq with the goal of creating civil war** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Press Core 8/12/10** (“CIA terrorist recruiting returns to Iraq on the heals of US troop withdrawal”, http://presscore.ca/nbg/index.php?entry=entry100812-080849) </span>


<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">So, even though the US ... </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;"> always has been the CIA.</span>



===The United States federal government should end its CIA presence in Iraq.=== 

===Contention Two is Status: Failed=== 



**First, The war on terror has allowed for militarization of the CIA – actions such as deliberate targeting, brutal torture tactics, hidden prisons, contractors, and drone strikes are but a few of the tactics used**
**Engelhardt and Turse, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - *Tom, co-founder of the American Empire Project, runs the Nation Institute’s TomDispatch.com, **Nick, fellow at New York University’s Center for the United States and the Cold War, winner of a 2009 Ridenhour Prize for Reportorial Distinction and a James Aronson Award for Social Justice Journalism (“Making Sense of the New CIA Battlefield in Afghanistan,” Anti-War.com, 1/11/10,** </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://original.antiwar.com/engelhardt/2010/01/10/the-new-cia-battlefield-in-afghanistan/)Red|http://original.antiwar.com/engelhardt/2010/01/10/the-new-cia-battlefield-in-afghanistan/)]]</span>[[http://original.antiwar.com/engelhardt/2010/01/10/the-new-cia-battlefield-in-afghanistan/)Red|**Red**]] <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">For years, </span>**
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Chalmers Johnson,</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> himself ... </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the blackest of black holes.</span>__


__<span class="Underline">**Special forces death squads commit violent atrocities against innocent civilians in the name of “safety”** </span>__

Bauer, 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – (6/3/09, Shane, freelance journalist and Arabic speaker living in the Middle East, The Nation, “Iraq’s New Death Squad,” [[http://www.thenation.com/article/iraqs-new-death-squad]]</span><span class="Underline"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The light is fading from ... </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">brigade," Hassan recalls them saying.</span> <span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">The conceptualizations of reality founded upon theories of militarism and targeting only create the apocalypse as an inevitability. The idea of American primacy that is ingrained in this trend of thought only serves to destroy the very foundations of the world as we know it. The impact is inevitable violence and war. </span>**







__LIFTON IN 2003__ **[Robert Jay Lifton, “American Apocalypse”, //The Nation//, December 22, 2003, [[http://www.thenation.com/doc.mhtml?i=20031222&s=lifton]]] <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**
__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">apocalyptic imagination has spawned ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">drawer in the Oval Office.</span>**


**And, the ontology of securitization creates the greatest possibilities for violence**
**Karsten** <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Friis</span>, **UN Sector @ the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs,** <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">2k</span> **[Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “From Liminars to Others: Securitization Through Myths,” <span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=2]]</span>] <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">The problem with societal</span><span class="Underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> securitization ... </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">where truth is never questioned.</span>**




And conceptualizations of politics and policymaking used to justify such acts of prevention against destruction are only part of the problem – the idea that apocalypse is coming is a perversion. We become fascinated solely with disaster. 
__MASSUMI IN 2002__ **[Brian Massumi; Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal; //Everywhere You Want to Be: An Introduction to Fear//; 2002; http://www.textz.com]**

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"We have met the enemy ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">becomes its own worst enemy.</span>__


Instead we live for the explosive crescendo! We seek out the gunpowder and light it aflame! 
__ZUPANČIČ IN 2003__ **[Alenka; Researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, Slovene Academy of Sciences, Ljubljana; //The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two//; Cambridge: The MIT Press; 2003; p. 63-65; 47-49]**

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(63-65):</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> So far, we have been ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.35pt;">to life as a sub­</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.05pt;">ject.</span>**




The concept of security is a social construct. Claims of war and conflict create a false “us them” dichotomy, ignoring our role in provoking the aggression. 
**<span style="color: black;">David </span>**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Grondin</span>, **Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 200**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">4</span>, **(“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17)**
**<span class="Underline"><span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Approaches that deconstruct theoretical practices ... </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">conditions of existence are generated18.</span>**


State action is key: 


Biopower is a network of relations, and not institutional – You can’t say that all state action is biopolitical – we must have the state to solve 
**__Lacombe__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Associate Professor of Sociology at Simon Fraser University, </span>__96__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dany, , PhD (Sociology) University of Toronton; MA (Criminology) University of Toronto; BA (Psychology) Universite de Sherbrooke, Quebec, “Reforming Foucault: A Critique of the Social Control Thesis,” The British Journal of Sociology Vol. 47 No. 2 (Jun 1996) p. 340, Blackwell Publishing, The London School of Economics and Political Science, Jstor) </span> <span class="underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">This new species</span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> was made ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">the field of force relations. (Foucault 1980b: 101-2)-JC</span>**






Working within the system is the only way to effectively dismantle biopolitics. This solves better than the alternative alone, acting purely locally absent government cannot solve. 
**__Wittman__ 20__06__ (John is an assistant professor at UTPA “Biopower and Pedagogy: Local Spaces and Institutional Technologies”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://compositionforum.com/issue/15/wittmanbiopower.php]]</span>)**


__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">One critical component to the ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">based on assumptions of tolerance.</span>**



re)envisioning the world as we do opens up the performative aspect of political action whereby we write ourselves back into the political process – this is the only means to confront disciplinary power and they steal it from us 
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Kulynych ‘97 </span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jessica, Professor of Political Science at Winthrop, 1997, Polity, Winter) </span>

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Performative resistance recognizes disciplinary power ... </span>__and evaluate their performative potential.


===Contention Three is the Ignorance Affect=== 
=== === 
**Claims made by the mainstream media don’t address the actuality of the situation within Iraq and only serve to subvert it**
**Fuller, 05** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(11/10/05, Max, researcher and frequent writer for Global Research, author, “Crying Wolf: Media Disinformation and Death Squads in Occupied Iraq,” http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=viewArticle&code=FUL20051110&articleId=1230) </span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">To <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">penetrate the media smokescreen ... </span></span>__**__Iraq <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">we are the violence.</span>__**




**Media focus on dealings of death squads is factually incorrect their discursive advocating of such fundamentally flawed research writes death squads and the atrocities they commit out of existence**
**Floyd, 09** – <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(7/6/09, Chris, political journalist and author, B.A. in Russian from University of Tennessee, studied journalism and religious studies at the graduate level at Tennessee, writer and researcher for Oxford University, “Unreality Check Amnesiac Controversy Ignores CIA’s Real Death Squads,” http://www.chris-floyd.com/component/content/article/1-latest-news/1797-unreality-check-amnesiac-controversy-ignores-cias-real-death-squads.html) </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">unreality</span> that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">has long ... </span></span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">stage </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">by the president</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> himself.</span>



**Representations are apriori, they shape policymaking**
**Blieker 2000** [Ronald, Contending Images if World Politics]

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While the conceptual contours of ... </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">object it seeks to represent.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Pg. 227 – 228</span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**We must privilege knowledge outside of academia’s insulated perspective to decolonize knowledge and avoid violence.\**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**DARBY IN 2003**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [Phillip Darby, “Reconfiguring "the international": knowledge machines, boundaries, and exclusions”, //Alternatives: Global, Local, Political;// 1/1/2003, eLibrary] </span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">But whether the international raises ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">the politics of knowledge exclusion.</span>




=Negative= 

==Ks== 

=== === 

====Fear K (1-Off)==== 


<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Disaster is everywhere we are! The aff is a product of the perversion of our twisted reality: The situations they locate contribute to our landscape of fear – our late capitalist universe’s condition where life is experienced through locating apocalypse and averting it “in the nick of time.” We live obsessed with chaos – the more pain, the more desire, we endlessly theorize how to save ourselves. We reflect an ideological deadlock sequenced by the projection of invulnerability and violence. A systemic of collective mindset cosmic control, projecting the illusion of invulnerability – our illusion confuses our stubborn reality – militarism becomes an inevitability leaving only room for apocalyptic energies. </span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 14.4pt; margin-top: 0.1in; text-align: justify;">**__LIFTON IN 2003__** [Robert Jay Lifton, “American Apocalypse”, //The Nation//, December 22, 2003, [[http://www.thenation.com/doc.mhtml?i=20031222&s=lifton]]] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">apocalyptic imagination has spawned ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">drawer in the Oval Office.</span>


<span style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; margin: 0in;">Our criticism elucidates our individual fascination with disaster – it’s sold in movies, on the news, even in debates. It doesn’t matter if they happen, we just live and die for the endless string of threats. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__MASSUMI IN 2002__** [Brian Massumi; Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal; //Everywhere You Want to Be: An Introduction to Fear//; 2002; http://www.textz.com] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"We have met the enemy ... </span>__**</span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">becomes its own worst enemy.</span>__**


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__The affirmative is a product of a death drive that will kill us all because of its will to sustain life.__</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__ZUPANČIČ IN 2003__** [Alenka; Researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, Slovene Academy of Sciences, Ljubljana; //The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two//; Cambridge: The MIT Press; 2003; p. 63-65; 47-49] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(63-65):</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> So far, we have been ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.35pt;">to life as a sub­</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.05pt;">ject.</span>




<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The affirmative’s permanent state of crisis reproduces a dangerous economy of enjoyment that makes life meaningless.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__ZUPANČIČ IN 2K3__** [Alenka; Researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, Slovene Academy of Sciences, Ljubljana; //The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two//; Cambridge: The MIT Press; 2003; p. 49-53] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The core of the ascetic ... </span>__****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">concludes in our not willing</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>__**



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Our continuation of this cycle of prediction and response is biopolitical, making the status quo worse by alleviating specific symptoms with treatment that makes the disease of capitalist biopower worse; turning the everyday self into an active nihilist condition to respond again and again to crises. Death becomes inevitable.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__MASSUMI IN 2002__** [Brian; Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal; //Everywhere You Want to Be: An Introduction to Fear//; 2002; http://www.textz.com] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">There is a kind of nonexclusive ... production, </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">a life spent, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">death</span>.</span>__**



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Our alternative is an ethic of joy. Embracing the joy of the present without linking it to a better world of the future has massive life affirming potential. We embrace the current world, the status quo, for all its faults, to find the joy in it, DO NOT link this joy of the present to a solution for the future.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify; text-indent: 0.5in;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__MASSUMI AND ZOURNAZI IN 2002__** [Brian Massumi is Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal; Mary Zournazi is a Philosopher and Ph.D in Cultural Theory; //Hope: New Philosophies for Change//; New York: Routledge; 2002; p. 241-242] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: 0.2pt;">Yes, and there is a ... </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.15pt;">or for </span>**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">more to life.</span>__**



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">__Our ethic entails hope, not fixated on the past or the future. Instead it lives in the moment to make change within the political part of our reality.__</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__MASSUMI AND ZOURNAZI IN 2002__** [Mary Zournazi is a Philosopher and Ph.D in Cultural Theory; Brian Massumi is Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal; //Hope: New Philosophies for Change//; New York: Routledge; 2002; p. 211-212] </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.15pt;">**__Brian: From my own point ...__** thinking, for</span> <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.2pt;">me, that's `hopeless'.</span>



<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**Our alternative doesn’t run from politics. Discussion of probability forecloses the potential of discussing possibility making the affirmative’s predictive aspects dangerous to politics.**</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**__STENGERS AND ZOURNAZI IN 2002__** [Isabelle Stengers is Professor of Philosophy at the Université Libre de Bruxelles; Mary Zournazi is a Philosopher and Ph.D in Cultural Theory; //Hope: New Philosophies for Change//; New York: Routledge; 2002; p. 245-247] </span>

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">I think probability is often ... </span>//**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">to hope</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; letter-spacing: -0.1pt;"> or to think.</span>


**Representations are apriori, they shape policymaking**
**Blieker 2000** [Ronald, Contending Images if World Politics]


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">While the conceptual contours of ... </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">object it seeks to represent.</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Pg. 227 – 228</span>


**The way knowledge claims are crafted determine accuracy of claims- non –collaboration causes the root cause of your impacts which turns and outweighs the case**
**RAJAN ‘92** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roby, The Discourse of Exploitation and the Exploitation of Discourse.) </span>


**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">How</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> then </span>**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">are human beings ... </span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">change in the larger society.</span>


**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial;">Representations must precede policy discussion </span>**
Neta <span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Crawford</span></span> ,PhD MA MIT, BA Brown, Prof. of poli sci at boston univ. __Argument and Change in World Politics__, 200<span class="Debate-CardTagandCite-F6Char"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">2</span></span> p. 19-21 
<span class="Debate-EmphasizedText-F5Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">Coherent arguments</span></span> <span class="Debate-CardTextUnderlined-F3Char"><span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">are unlikely to ... </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Hence framing is a meta-argument.</span>



====Fear K==== 
**Disaster is everywhere we are! The aff is a product of the perversion of our twisted reality: The situations they locate contribute to our landscape of fear – our late capitalist universe’s condition where life is experienced through locating apocalypse and averting it “in the nick of time.” We live obsessed with chaos – the more pain, the more desire, we endlessly theorize how to save ourselves. We reflect an ideological deadlock sequenced by the projection of invulnerability and violence. A systemic of collective mindset cosmic control, projecting the illusion of invulnerability – our illusion confuses our stubborn reality – militarism becomes an inevitability leaving only room for apocalyptic energies.**

**The affirmative is a product of a death drive that will kill us all because of its will to sustain life.**

**ZUPANČIČ IN 2003** [Alenka; Researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, Slovene Academy of Sciences, Ljubljana; The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two; Cambridge: The MIT Press; 2003; p. 63-65; 47-49] 
(63-65): So far, we have … comes to life as a sub­ject. 




**The affirmative’s permanent state of crisis reproduces a dangerous economy of enjoyment that makes life meaningless.**

**ZUPANČIČ IN 2K3** [Alenka; Researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, Slovene Academy of Sciences, Ljubljana; The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two; Cambridge: The MIT Press; 2003; p. 49-53] 

The core of the ascetic … concludes in our not willing. 



**Our alternative is an ethic of joy. Embracing the joy of the present without linking it to a better world of the future has massive life affirming potential. We embrace the current world, the status quo, for all its faults, to find the joy in it, DO NOT link this joy of the present to a solution for the future.**

**MASSUMI AND ZOURNAZI IN 2002** [Brian Massumi is Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal; Mary Zournazi is a Philosopher and Ph.D in Cultural Theory; Hope: New Philosophies for Change; New York: Routledge; 2002; p. 241-242] 

Yes, and there is a relation … , or for more to life.


====<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">Kappeler K</span>==== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**A. The affirmative’s concept of violence as external from their own lives allows individuals to abdicate their responsibility. Denial of our individual culpability with violence forecloses the possibility of meaningful change; in the process, violence becomes more likely.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**KAPPELER IN 1995** [Susanne Kappeler, The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg 1-4]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">What is striking is that ... violence does indeed 'pay off'.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**B. Political violence is sustained by organized thinking that looks at violence through meta-analysis. We need to have deeper insight that realizes that each of us are culpable for violence. This is integral to ending the cycle of violence.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**KAPPELER IN 1995** [Susanne Kappeler, The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg 8-11]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Moreover, personal behaviour is no ... not acting or doing nothing.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**C. Their inter-subjective understanding of violence reduces the people they discuss to instruments that can be pillaged.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**KAPPELER IN 1995** [Susanne Kappeler, The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg 124-128]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The terms may indeed be ... its own `end' to it.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**D. We need to interrogate our own will to violence; only be politicizing the way we think about violence can we find ways to end the cycle of violence.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**KAPPELER IN 1995** [Susanne Kappeler, The Will To Violence: The Politics of Personal Behavior, pg 4-5]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If we nevertheless continue to ... seems to me a necessary precondition for any political struggle against violence and for a non-violent society.</span>



====<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">Morality</span>==== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The self-assured ethical framework of the affirmative presupposes the ongoing sacrifice of other responsibilities to elevate one claim above all others.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**DERRIDA IN 1995** [Jacques Derrida, Directeur D’Etudes at Ecole de Hautes Etudes En Sciences Sociales THE GIFT OF DEATH, 85-87]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The sacrifice of Isaac is … part nothing more than a murderer?</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The affirmative’s permanent state of crisis reproduces a dangerous economy of enjoyment that makes life meaningless.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**ZUPANČIČ IN 2K3** [Alenka; Researcher at the Institute of Philosophy, Slovene Academy of Sciences, Ljubljana; The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two; Cambridge: The MIT Press; 2003; p. 49-53]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The core of the ascetic … concludes in our not willing.</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Our alternative is an ethic of joy. Embracing the joy of the present without linking it to a better world of the future has massive life affirming potential. We embrace the current world, the status quo, for all its faults, to find the joy in it, DO NOT link this joy of the present to a solution for the future.**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**MASSUMI AND ZOURNAZI IN 2002** [Brian Massumi is Associate Professor of Communications at the Université de Montréal; Mary Zournazi is a Philosopher and Ph.D in Cultural Theory; Hope: New Philosophies for Change; New York: Routledge; 2002; p. 241-242]</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Yes, and there is a relation … , or for more to life. </span>


====Methodology==== 


**The affirmative makes decisions in the way that they research, and their decision to not experience and collaborate with those whom have experienced the devastation of US militarism, because that is what their aff prescribed to do- their privilege as scholars provides them with the necessity of collaborating with and providing an opportunity for the voiceless to present their voices in your research on their own terms and in their own words- Lack of this kind of research ignores your responsibility- This reenacts forms of domination and colonization on those you claim to speak for and help.**

//**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Kirsch</span>**////**,**// //19////**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">97</span>**// //( Gesa, Prof. of , “Multi-vocal Texts and Interpretive Responsibility”, College English, Vol. 59, No. 2 (Feb., 1997), pp. 191-202, jstor.org)//

At the same time, however, ... **__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">with our new interpretive responsibilities</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>


**Epistemological considerations precede politics—it is the most authentic way to understand oppression to create effective responses to exploitation. Rejecting epistemology results in macro-socioengineering, which makes all impacts inevitable. Our alternative of learning through first hand, corporeal experiential suffering solves the methodological problems that the 1ac presents**

**RAJAN ‘92** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Roby, The Discourse of Exploitation and the Exploitation of Discourse.) </span>


**__How__** then **__are human beings ...__** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">change in the larger society.</span>


**And our Alternative is the rejection of the exclusive use of the laboratory type research that the 1ac has engaged in- This promotes research that would actually include excluded voices on the peripher of US military presence in the context of debate- This is not a link of omission because you chose second hand research, which we criticize**

**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">MITCHELL</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 19</span>**<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">98 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gordon R. Mitchell, Associate Professor, University of Pittsburgh, “PEDAGOGICAL POSSIBILITIES FOR ARGUMENTATIVE AGENCY IN ACADEMIC DEBATE”, //Argumentation & Advocacy//, 1998, Vol. 35 Issue 2, p41-60] </span>

**__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">Possibilities for </span>argumentative <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">agency are ... </span>__****__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 11pt;">a tool of </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">debate <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">preparation.</span></span>__**


====Mediated Ethics==== 

**<span style="color: black;">The affirmative poses the question of ethics only insofar as it relates to the domain of politics. Tying ethical reorientation of ourselves with the reorientation of our collective political spheres takes precedent and in the process produces these ethics and our relationship with others merely as a background for political transformations. The affirmative makes the question not how much how we can change ourselves but instead how we can change our institutions to change ourselves. This process produces a mediated relationship that makes genuine ethical engagement impossible.</span>**


**__<span style="color: black;">Zupancic</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**<span style="color: black;">2k</span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Research – Institute of philosophy – Ljubljana, 2000. [Alenka, //Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan//, March, pg 10-11] </span>


<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In other words,</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> one cannot ... </span>____<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">of desire as a priori.</span>__


**<span style="color: black;">The affirmative will respond that the plan and the political play no prominent role in the posture of the 1AC. This, however, is the premise of our whole argument. Their belief that the political must remain in the background nonetheless, in order to generate change is the ultimate sell-out of their ethical commitment. This gesture is intrinsically unethical because it admits from the get-go that the ethical posture itself is insufficient absent its capacity to generate change within the domain of institutional politics.</span>**
**__THURSCHWELL IN 2003__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Adam Thurschwell,<span style="color: black;"> Asst. Prof. of Law, Cleveland State University,</span> “Nietzsche and Legal Theory (Part II),” 24 Cardozo L. Rev. 1193, March of 2003; L/N] </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> [*1202] Thus, as Derrida puts it, </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">" ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">something that resembles pure faith.</span>__

**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Belief that our activisms must inevitably, inexorably respond to the political conditions of our time through the leveraging of particular institutional appeals is precisely what nullifies our ethical potential. No matter the force of its opposition, the connection of transformation with an appeal to our institutions, mediates our relationships in such a manner that ethical transformation outside this frame of mediation becomes impossible. </span>**
**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Hershock</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">99</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> East-West Center, 1999. [“Changing the way society changes”, //Journal of Buddhist Ethics//, 6, 154; http://jbe.gold.ac.uk/6/hershock991.html] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">I have argued at some ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">'being right' and 'being wronged'.</span>__



**<span style="color: black;">If the mediation of our ethics is the source of our ethical impoverishment and the corruption of our relationships, it’s time to withdraw from this framework of mediation. Thus our alternative: we ask you to affirm the ethical commitment of the 1AC in its immediacy. Suspending the wall that mediates our relationships constitutes the only genuine ethical act.</span>**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Paul </span>**__<span style="color: black;">Santilli</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__<span style="color: black;">2003</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Siena College, 2003 “Radical Evil, Subjection, and Alain Badiou’s Ethics of the Truth Event,” </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">World Congress of The International Society for Universal Dialogue </span>//<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">in </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pyrgos, Greece </span>
<span style="color: black;">on </span>May 18-22, 2003 http://<span style="color: black;">www.isud.org/papers/pdfs/Santilli.pdf</span>//


//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If we retain this original ... </span><span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">to deliberation and practical reason.30</span>//
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//**<span style="color: black;">The displacement of our ethics onto external political institutions culminates in genocidal violence. Once we accept that our ethics are contingent on the political all atrocities becomes possible.</span>**//
//**__<span style="color: black;">Zupancic</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__<span style="color: black;">2000</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> Ethics of the Real: Kant and Lacan, March 2000, p. 96-7 </span>//</span>
//**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; letter-spacing: 0.3pt;">Another problem still remains, however: ... </span>__****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; letter-spacing: 0.25pt;">a </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; letter-spacing: -1.2pt;">by-</span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; letter-spacing: 0.2pt;">product' of our actions</span>__****__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; letter-spacing: 0.2pt;">.</span>__** **<span style="color: black;">For the affirmative, the ethical and the political are one in the same – inseparable. The political domain has become incomplete without ethical intervention and ethical intervention insufficient without political input. This logic is responsible for the genuine corruption of our ethics. Reading ethics through the lens of politics ignores ethical possibilities all around us all the time. The affirmative builds a wall between these ethical possibilities, insisting that they are only possible when our political gestures are transformed.</span>** **<span style="color: black;">Zizek 01 - </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Slavoj Zizek, senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies, Ljubljana; </span>//










Did Somebody Say Totalitarianism//, 2001, pg 160-163 

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> The problem here is: is ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">intermediate agency of symbolic regulations.</span>



==== ==== 

===**T/Theory**=== 



====**T - Land Forces**==== 


1. Interpretation: “Military” means land forces

AMERICAN HERITAGE DICTIONARY 2009
**(“Military,” http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/military)**

**4. Of or relating to land forces.**

2. Violation—the aff includes the Air Force or Navy

3. Vote Negative—
a. predictable limits**—allowing the aff to affect other branches multiplies the number of cases because they could withdraw any service or combination from any country or combination of countries—this makes neg preparation impossible**

b. predictable ground**—their interpretation destroys disads based on shifting from one strategy or force to another, and changes the core of the topic away from debates about land power versus air and naval power to debates about overall presence, which requires an entirely different set of neg arguments**

c. they undermine education on the topic**—this evidence also supports our ground and limits claims**
TILL 2006
**(Geoffrey, Professor of Maritime Studies in the Defence Studies Department of King's College, The development of British naval thinking: essays in memory of Bryan McLaren Ranft, p. 130)**
**Accordingly, __<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the aim of professional military ...</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> too easily become ‘insufficiently naval’</span>__.**

4. Extra-topicality is a voting issue because it allows the aff to read unpredictable advantages and forces the neg to read PICs just to get back to square one.


==== ==== 

===**CPs**=== 


====NMS==== 

**NMS is a keystone document that shapes military policy – it integrates consultation between Congress and the DOD, building broad support for the plan**

<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Meinhart 8</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Dr. Richard M., Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College, “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">To meet these challenges, the ... </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">and ambiguous global <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">security environment</span></span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



**NMS can effectively cause military withdrawal --- it shapes operational planning, resource allocation, and future defense planning**
<span class="Heading2Char"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Riley 94</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Don T., Lieutenant Colonel – United States Army, “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4-18, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Should not </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt;">the</span>__ __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; padding: 0in;">N</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">ational </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11pt; padding: 0in;">M</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">ilitary ... y</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;">ears from now begins today.</span>

====The Long CP==== 


**We solve all of the AFF – We end up with the same counterterrorism posture the plan does BUT we don’t get there until we train the Afghan security forces – The way the transition occurs and its timing is CRITICAL. The plan collapses Afghan stability flipping the case and undermines our ability to execute a counterterrorism strategy flipping their solvency.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Long**, </span>Professor at Columbia University’s School of International & Public Affairs, **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">10</span>** (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Volume 54, Issue 2) 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is a high-end estimate ... </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">dismantling, and defeating al Qaeda.37</span>



<span class="Underline">**The CP solves spending through multiple avenues, this is a laundry list** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Sharp 09** (Travis</span><span style="color: black;"> Sharp a Research Associate at the Center for a New American Security</span><span class="Underline"> “Gates Throws Down the Gauntlet on Defense Budget”,http://www.armscontrolcenter.org/policy/securityspending/articles/040609_gates_drops_gauntlet_budget/) </span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">People over machines</span>__**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">: More <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">funding ... </span></span>__**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">and cancel ground vehicles component</span>__**


**<span style="color: black;">Risk of nuclear terrorism is high – probably an attack will come from al Qaeda by 2013</span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Hall, 10</span>**<span style="color: black;"> (Mimi, USA Today, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, 4/12, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/20</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Ayuthaya;">1</span><span style="color: black;">0</span><span style="color: black; font-family: Ayuthaya;">-</span><span style="color: black;">04-11-nukesummit_N.htm </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — President Obama is asking ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">a terrorist attack" by 2013</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


**<span style="color: black;">Afghanistan is a vital safe haven for al Qaeda – terrorism is inevitable but nuclear risks can be reduced is the US drives them out </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Arkedis, 9</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007 (Jim, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, 10/23, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven) </span>


__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">I spent five years as ... </span>____<span style="color: black;">physical space it can access</span>__<span style="color: black;">.</span>



**<span style="color: black;">Nuclear terrorism causes extinction </span>**
**<span style="color: black;">Morgan, 9</span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct) </span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In a remarkable website on ... </span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">suffering in a nuclear winter</span>__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">.</span>


====**<span style="border-bottom: 1px solid #cccccc; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">Condition on South Korean Anti-Prostitution</span>**==== 
**Counter-plan Text: The United States federal government should condition [Plan] on their compliance with the United Nations' Trafficking in Persons Report of 2009.**

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United Nations' Trafficking in Persons Report of 2009 includes the following:</span>**
**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">UNHCR, 9. United Nations Refugy Agency, Trafficking in Persons Report 2009. <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://seoul.usembassy.gov/sr_061609a.html]]</span></span>**
**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Recommendations for the Republic of Korea: ... forced labor among migrant workers.</span>**

South Korea will say yes- anti-American sentiment means that they want the US to withdraw troops.
Printz and Doran 6 **(Scott A., Lieutenant Colonel, and George Doran, Project Adviser, USAWC Strategy Research Project, “A U.S Military Presence in a Post-Unified Korea: Is it Required?”, <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[@http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448748&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf]]</span>)**
**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">A second factor that could adversely impact the future stationing of U.S. troops in Korea is rising nationalism. Nationalism in South Korea is increasing ... power projection and expeditionary forces. Faced with the reality that projected defense budgets won’t support the desired level of forces, some tough decisions need to be made. One analyst’s view is that forces may be reduced overseas not only because of technology, but because the U.S. will rely more on the capabilities of allies 42.</span>**


====Condition on DPRK Denuclearization==== 


**Text:**
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">**The United States federal government should offer [Plan] if the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea agrees to simultaneously freeze its nuclear program and agrees to the appropriate IAEA safeguards**</span>

**__Only__ the counterplan can solve – unreciprocated concessions allows North Korea to undermine nuclear negotiations with __indefinite demands__**
**Horowitz, 05**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – doctoral candidate in the Department of Government at Harvard and a predoctoral fellow in national security at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies (Winter 2004-05, The Washington Quarterly, “Who’s Behind That Curtain? Unveiling Potential Leverage over Pyongyang,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.twq.com/05winter/docs/05winter_horowitz.pdf]]</span>, JMP) </span>

One goal clearly articulated by... **__nuclear <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">issue with indefinite demands</span>.__**

The plan alone crushes U.S. deterrence and causes war and allied prolif 

**Cronin, et. al, 94**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Report Coordinator and Specialist in Asian Affairs in the Foreign Affairs and National Defense Division at the CRS (6/1/1994, Richard P., CRS Report for Congress, CRS94-470F, “North Korea's Nuclear Weapons Program: U.S. Policy Options,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.fas.org/spp/starwars/crs/94-470f.htm]]</span></span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, JMP)</span>


While__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> a U.S. withdrawal based ... </span>____<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">nuclear program towards weapons production.</span>__



**Causes Japan to nuclearize and embolden China against Taiwan.**
**Dao, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html, JMP) </span>

Deciding if now is the ... __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% fuchsia;">they see in the region</span>."__


**Escalates to global nuclear war**
**Cirincione, 2000**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Director of the Non-Proliferation Project at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (Spring 2000, Joseph, Foreign Policy, “The Asian Nuclear Reaction Chain”, JStor) </span>

The blocks would fall quickest ... __<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">a nuclear weapon since</span>__ 19__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% yellow;">45</span>__.


====Embassy Guards PIC==== 



<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**The United States federal government should withdraw Eighth United States Army, 1st Signal Brigade, 35th Air Defense Artillery Brigade, 65th medical Brigade, 501st Military Intelligence Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, 1st Heavy Brigade Combat Team, 2nd Infantry Division, 21st Fires Brigade, 2nd Combat Aviation Brigade, 19th Expeditionary Sustainment Command, 501st Corps Sustainment Brigade, Material Support Center, Korea, Special Operations Command – Korea, Army Special Operations Forces Liaison Element-Korea, UNC Security Battalion - Joint Security Area, Seventh Air Force, 8th Fighter Wing, 51st Fighter Wing, 36th Wing, and US Naval Forces Korea from Korea.**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**Observation One: We compete and solve your case**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 16pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**Marine security guards boost good will for all of the Marines – Zero risk of the counterplan not solving as well as the plan.**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**Nichols, Captain, 2-6** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rory, “Marine Security Guard Program at Risk: Can the Marine Corps Continue to Support the Program?, </span>**[[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA503392&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf|**http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA503392&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf**]]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">From the Corps perspective, __it ...__ </span><span style="line-height: 25px;">__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: black;">resources gained from the program.</span>__</span>



<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**Yes, We do have Marine Security Guards in Korea**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**Smith 2K** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Larry J., “MARINE CORPS SECURITY FORCES 2000,” </span>**[[http://orbat.com/site/us2002/files/8/Marine|**http://orbat.com/site/us2002/files/8/Marine**]]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">%20Corps%20Security%20Forces%202000.pdf) </span>**</span>
__<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Marine Security Guard Battalion ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">6</span>
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">0 6 </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 24pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">TOTALS 3</span>**</span>


<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> Observation Two: The Net Benefit </span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**Marine-protection of our embassies preserves information dominance necessary to solve every transnational threat and maintain our soft-power**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**Williams,** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Center for Emerging Threats and Opportunities,</span>** **1996** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(J. Noel, “U.S. State Department and U.S. Marine Corps: Partners for the 21st Century - Using Embassies as Advanced Bases for Information”, </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">[[http://smallwarsjournal.com/documents/williams.pdf|**http://smallwarsjournal.com/documents/williams.pdf**]]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>**</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">In the tradition of Pete ... </span><span style="line-height: 19px;">__<span style="color: black;">important contribution to this end.</span>__</span>


<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">__**CBW and nuclear war**__</span>

<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**Barlow,** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Director of the Berglund Center for Internet Studies, holds the Matsushita Chair of Asian Studies at Pacific University, Ph.D. in history from UC Berkeley,</span>** **2K2 (****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeffrey, March, “American Power, Globalism, and the Internet: Editorial Essay”, The Journal of Education, Community and Values, </span>**[[http://bcis.pacificu.edu/journal/2002/03/editori|**http://bcis.pacificu.edu/journal/2002/03/editori**]]</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 19pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">al.php#6) </span>**</span>
<span style="display: block; line-height: 12pt; text-align: justify;"> </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Much of Nye's analysis is ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">autonomy in a networked system.</span>


==== ==== 



===**DAs**=== 

====CMR==== 


**A- Civil-military relations are being boosted by Petraeus’s new leadership but remain on the brink after the McChrystal crisis.**
**AP 6/29**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Associated Press, “Petraeus Vows Long-Term Commitment In Afghan War,” 6/29/10, http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=103363131] </span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Gen</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. David </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Petraeus is on ... </span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">to Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**B- Plan steamrolls military opinion by decreasing presence without consulting them– this destroys civil-military relations.**
**The**<span class="AuthorDateChar"> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Independent 8</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Spencer Ackerman; 11/13/08; “Productive Obama-Military Relationship Possible”; http://washingtonindependent.com/18335/productive-obama-military-relationship-possible] </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">During his July trip to ... </span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">of the nation has forgotten.”</span>



**C- CMR is key to Gates’ military transformation agenda**
**Desch 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security Decision-Making at Texas A&M's George H. W. Bush School of Government and Public Service, (Michael, Foreign Affairs, “Bush and the Generals”, May/June) http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/05/bush_and_the_generals.html </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is no secret that ... </span>__that proper civil-military balance.__

**D- Irregular warfighting is key to preventing escalation from inevitable global conflicts – accesses every impact**
**Bennett 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (John T., Defense News, “JFCOM Releases Study on Future Threats”, Dec. 4, [[http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=3850158]], The study = U.S. Joint Forces Command study) </span>


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The study predicts </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">future <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">U.S. ... </span></span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">security alone," said the report.</span></span>


====**Deterrence**==== 

=====**South Korea**===== 

US withdrawal wrecks regional instability – causes miscalc, arms races, and war and other factors won’t check escalation. 

**Richardson, 2006**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-weight: normal;">[Corey, analyst who covered East Asian security issues as a presidential management fellow with the US Department of Defense, and is a co-founder of The Korea Liberator, “Korea must choose sides”, 9-9, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/Korea/HI09Dg02.html] </span>**

__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Rumors of a substantial drawdown ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">even in a reunified Korea.</span>


**Causes Japan to nuclearize and embolden China against Taiwan.**
**Dao, 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (1/5/03, James, NY Times, “Why Keep U.S. Troops in South Korea?” http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/05/weekinreview/05JDAO.html, JMP) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Deciding if now is the ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">they see in the region</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">."</span>__


China-Taiwan causes extinction.

<span class="Heading2Char3">The Strait Times, 2000</span>

[“No one gains in war over Taiwan”, June 25, Lexis] 

<span class="Heading4Char1"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 11pt;">The high-intensity scenario postulates ... </span></span><span class="Heading5Char"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">puts sovereignty above everything else.</span> </span>



**Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT.**
**Halloran, 2009**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">That </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">anxiety has reinvigorated a ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">under the US nuclear umbrella.</span>


**Nuclear war.**
**Cimbala, 2008**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld] </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If the possibility existed of ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; padding: 0in;">marginalization of major interstate warfare</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



=====**Japan**===== 

<span class="Underline">**Military presence vital to East Asian stability – withdrawal causes escalating wars and Japanese prolif.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wortzel 2k**- Director of the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation </span>
<span class="Underline">(8/10/00, “US forces remain critical to Northeast Asian security” pg online @ lexisnexis//au)// </span>

//<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON - </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">There has been a sea ... </span></span>of security <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">disappear as well.</span>//






//**Causes nuclear World War 3.**//


**//Knight Ridder in ‘00//**
//[Jonathon S. Landay, “Top administration officials warn stakes for U.S. are high in Asian conflicts”, 3-11, L/N]//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Few if any experts think ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">are elements for potential disaster</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">."</span>__//





//**Japan prolif causes a chain reaction in Asia and collapses the NPT.**//
//**Halloran, 2009**//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Richard, Military correspondent for The New York Times for ten years, 5-24, “The Dangers of a Nuclear Japan,” Real Clear Politics, http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2009/05/24/nuclear_japan_96638.html] </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">That </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">anxiety has reinvigorated</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> a ... </span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">under the US nuclear umbrella.</span>//



//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Nuclear war.**</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Cimbala, 2008**</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[Stephen, Distinguished Prof. Pol. Sci. – Penn. State Brandywine, Comparative Strategy, “Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia”, 27, InformaWorld]</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">If the possibility existed of ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; border: 1pt solid windowtext; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt; padding: 0in;">marginalization of major interstate warfare</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span></span>//



====Natural Gas==== 


**Obama pushing the bipartisan Natural Gas Act – his political capital is key and GOP support is likely**
**Seeking Alpha, 11/8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“Obama Speech Puts Natural Gas Act in Play for Clean Energy Fuels,” [[http://seekingalpha.com/article/235565-obama-speech-puts-natural-gas-act-in-play-for-clean-energy-fuels]], JMP) </span>


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Following Tuesday’s election setback for ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">will be the big ones.</span>



**Solves oil dependence**
**Rupinski, 10/19**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Patrick, “Billionaire presents energy plan at UA,” 10/19/10, [[http://www.tidesports.com/article/20101019/NEWS/101019581/1007?p=1&tc=pg]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">TUSCALOOSA | T. Boone Pickens brought his ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">nations for its oil needs.</span>


**Oil demand is outpacing production – adopting alternatives is key to avoid economic collapse and great power resource wars across the globe**
**ASPO, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (10/7/10, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & GAS, “The End of Oil As We Know It,” www.kansascity.com/2010/10/07/2287554/the-end-of-oil-as-we-know-it.html#ixzz13inJIa40) </span>

<span class="Underline"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON, Oct. 7 /PRNewswire-USNewswire/ -- The Association for the Study ... </span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">time or energy to waste." </span>



====//**START**//==== 



//START has sufficient support to pass//
//Pollack, 9/26**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joshua, Arms Control Wonk, “Two Time Bombs in New START,” [[http://pollack.armscontrolwonk.com/archive/3234/two-time-bombs-in-new-start]]) </span>**//


//**Holding these cards that could ... __post-Cold War world, are found.__**//


//Political capital is key//
//Interfax News Agency, 10 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(BBC Worldwide Monitoring, 4/9/10, “Russian pundit questions outlook for US ratification of new arms cuts deal,” Lexis) </span>**//
//***Note – Sergey Rogov is the director of the Russian Academy of Science US and Canada Institute**//

//However, __Obama will have to ...__ __<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">good connections in the Senate".</span>__//

//**Ratification prevents nuclear extinction**//
//**Starr, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Expert on Nuclear Proliferation [4/9/10, “New START treaty represents an important achievement in arms control”, http://www.psr.org/nuclear-weapons/blog/new-start-treaty-represents.html] </span>//


//Despite much criticism, __t<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">he</span> new ...__ **__<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">include plans for nuclear holocaust.</span>__**//







====//Politics Links//==== 


**GOP hates the plan - missile defense is their top security priority**
**Bloomberg, 11/15/10**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Tony Capaccio, “China Threats Merit Shifting of U.S. Defense Dollars, House's McKeon Says,” Bloomberg.com, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-15/china-threats-merit-shifting-of-u-s-defense-dollars-house-s-mckeon-says.html)Red </span>
**__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The House Armed Services Committee’s ... </span>__**<span style="font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;">of 1 percent after inflation.</span>



===//Round Specifics//=== 



====//Meadows - Octas vs. Damien//==== 



===== ===== 

=====//"Japanese" PIC//===== 


//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Text: Independent from any decision regarding the location of the headquarters of the Third Marine Expeditionary Force Command Element, the Third Marine Logistics Group Headquarters, the First Marine Air Wing Headquarters, the Jungle Warfare Training Center at Camp Gonsalves, or Marine Embassy guards, the United States Department of Defense should agree to redeploy Marines from Japan other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit as well as a comparable number of Marines to maintain pre-positioned equipment and maintain access arrangement for the emergency use of facilities owned by the government of Japan. </span>**//

//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The term “Japanese” assumes that all of Japan is one monoethnic race and society </span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Murphy-Shigematsu, 93</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">-doctorate from Harvard in psychology, faculty of the University of Tokyo, Fulbright scholar in Okinawa </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, “Multiethnic Japan and the monoethnic myth”, MELUS, Asian Perspectives, Volume 18, Number 4, Winter 1993, pages 63-80) </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Of course,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">the popular image ... </span>__</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">and the society as monoethnic.</span>__//




//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The idea of the “Japanese” as one monoethnic culture perpetuates racist dichotomies </span>**//
//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Murphy-Shigematsu, 93</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">-doctorate from Harvard in psychology, faculty of the University of Tokyo, Fulbright scholar in Okinawa </span>//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Stephen, “Multiethnic Japan and the monoethnic myth”, MELUS, Asian Perspectives, Volume 18, Number 4, Winter 1993, pages 63-80) </span>//

//__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The monoethnic myth is</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> credited ... </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">even know what discrimination is."</span>__//



//**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">That grants states the power to exterminate – this is the root of all war </span>**//
//**<span class="cite"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mendieta, 2002</span></span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">[Eduardo Mendieta, , “To Make Live and to Let Die – Foucault and Racism. 2002] </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">This is where racism intervenes ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">foes are biological in nature</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">.</span>//


=====//<span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 11pt;">T Substantial</span>//===== 



//**A. Interpretation – presence refers to the totality of US military power in a country**//
//**<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Blechman</span> et al, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">97</span>** – President of DFI International, and has held positions in the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget (Barry, Strategic Review, Spring, “Military Presence Abroad in a New Era: The Role of Airpower,” p. 14)//

//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The highly complex nature of ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">requisite infrastructure and sustainment capabilities.”2</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">We deploy 36,000 troops in Japan.</span>**//

//__**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Department of Defense 2009</span></span>**__//
//(“ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY PERSONNEL STRENGTHS BY REGIONAL AREA AND BY COUNTRY (309A),” DECEMBER 31)//


//Regional Area/Country <span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Total</span></span> Army Navy Marine Corps Air Force//
//<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 12pt;">Japan 35,688</span></span> 2,541 3,740 17,009 12,398//

//**<span style="font-size: 11.0pt;">Futenma only has 4,000 troops – that’s 11%.</span>**//
//**<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Casas 2010</span></span>**//
//(Gemma Q. Casas, Reporter - Marianas Variety, "Fitial says he will bring Futenma relocation issue to US," February 12, http://www.mvariety.com/2010021123798/local-news/fitial-says-he-will-bring-futenma-relocation-issue-to-us.php)//


//<span class="UnderlineChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Futenma</span> Airbase <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">is home ... </span></span></span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">located in Ginowan City, Okinawa.</span>//


====//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">Quarters vs. Greenhill</span>//==== 




=====//<span style="border-bottom-color: #cccccc; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.066em; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">The Matrix</span>//===== 


//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The affirmative is a destructive reaction to the absurdity of life—life IS absurd, there is no meaning, and we cannot escape the violence that is around us. The will to save existence from the failures of the political is indicative of a fixation on the establishment of meaning outside and devoid of authentic understanding of freedom. All such political responses universally result in the construction of thesis and antithesis to be annihilated. Only an action that affirms the finitude of man can transcend our existential crisis and the inevitable violence within a realist-politik.**</span>//
//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**DeBEAUVOIR 1947** (Simone, French writer/philosopher, “The Positive Aspects of Ambiguity,” The Ethics of Ambiguity, translated by Bernard Frechtman. 129-150)</span>//


//<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The notion of ambiguity must ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">was positively and absolutely confirmed.</span></span>//


<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//**Don’t be fooled by the promises of change and salvation from the world’s suffering. The ballot and ideals to bring about change is a willing of our desires and projections. This willing is a form of power projection in which individuals fully immerse themselves in technology, becoming standing-reserves that deny Being and propagate Fuhrer politics. We live life dead, especially in the manifestation of a politics that consumes the world in order to fulfill our hopes and fantasies.**//</span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: justify;">//**MITCHELL 2K5** (Andrew J., Stanford University, “Heidegger and Terrorism,”//</span>
Research in Phenomenology//, 35, Philosopher’s Index.)

<span style="display: block; margin-bottom: 0in; margin-left: 0.25in; margin-right: 0.25in; margin-top: 0in; text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The will that dominates the ... </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">ordering and securing of beings</span>__**<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif; font-size: 8pt;">. (GA7: 89/EP, 105; tm)</span></span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**The political reaction of the affirmative sacrifices human subjectivity for a form of objectivity that is external and devoid of an ontological understanding of life’s absurdity. This form of objective reasoning of the plan degrades human life to a sub humanity. The sub-human is trapped in a constant state of fear, afraid to truly embracing existence but also afraid to retreat from the world. It makes the prospect of happiness an impossibility where the individual constantly defers agency as a flight from a present misery. The sub-human is dangerous and cannot break away from prejudice and hatred for others. This ultimately results in annihilation.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**DeBEAUVOIR 1947** (Simone, French writer/philosopher, “Personal Freedom and Others,” The Ethics of Ambiguity, translated by Bernard Frechtman pg. 110-130)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Yet, he exists. By the ... </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">which one claims are absolute.</span>__</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**Our alternative is to annul the ethico-political framework and affirmative’s response to the resolution that hails a particular objective response to the existence of “military presence”. We ask you to throw yourself into the existential ambiguity within life and suspend the value-laden will to power produced by the affirmative’s will for change. Our alternative is analogous with Neo’s choice to take the red pill – while order and fixed meaning can never be achieved in the world, our alternative allows a true engagement with the world that overcomes bad faith and the limiting aspects of inauthenticity.**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="DateCitesAuthorChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">McMahon</span></span>, Assistant Professor of Philosophy @ Centre College, <span class="DateCitesAuthorChar"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">2002</span></span> (Jennifer, Specialist in Sartre and Aesthetics, “Popping a Bitter Pill: Existential Authenticity in The Matrix and Nausea”, __The Matrix and Philosophy__, p. 166-76)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6.5pt;">Early in The Matrix the ... </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;">Blue? Neo and Cypher concerning</span></span>

=====<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">3rd Medical Battalion PIC</span>===== 


<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Department of Defense should withdraw the 3rd Battalion 12th Marines, Combat Assault Batallion, 3rd Reconnaissance Battalion, Headquarters Battalion 3rd Marine Division, Combat Logistics Battalion 3, Combat Logistics Battalion 4, Combat Logistics Battalion 31, 3rd Maintenance Battalion, 9th Engineer Support Battalion, 3rd Supply Battalion, 3rd Dental Battalion, Headquarters & Service Battalion, 3rd Intelligence Battalion, 7th Communications Battalion from Japan other than the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit.</span>** </span>

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">CP leaves the 3RD Medical Battalion-That’s Key- </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A. No risk the CP doesn’t solve- it keeps the PERCEPTION of withdrawing </span>**

<span style="display: block; line-height: 22pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">B. </span>****<span style="font-size: 10pt;">3RD MEDICAL BATTALION KEY TO STOP BIRD FLU</span>**</span>
<span style="tab-stops: 160.0pt;">**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Stars and Stripes 2007 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[**David Allen reporter for Stars and Stripes Published: April 9, 2007 II MEF ready to respond if avian flu pandemic hits** </span>[[http://www.stripes.com/news/iii-mef-ready-to-respond-if-avian-flu-pandemic-hits-1.62544|**http://www.stripes.com/news/iii-mef-ready-to-respond-if-avian-flu-pandemic-hits-1.62544**]]**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">. </span>**</span>

<span style="color: #262626; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">CAMP COURTNEY, Okinawa __— <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">If the ... </span>__</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; color: #262626; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">influenza going human to human</span><span style="color: #262626; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">.”</span>__

<span style="font-size: 10.0pt;">**Bird flu results in every impact imaginable including global state collapse and disintegration of public order** </span>
**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Guardian 2006 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">(“Bird flu 'could be 21st-century Black Death'” Jan. 27. http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2006/jan/27/birdflu.health)</span>
<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">Avian </span><span class="UNDERLINECharChar"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">flu has the potential ... </span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">collapse of already weak states.</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-size: 10pt;">"</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]