[[toc]]
=AFFIRMATIVE= 
Ajay is sexy -<3 DML

Aff cites: email [[mailto:ajayvishwanath.94@gmail.com|ajayvishwanath.94@gmail.com]]
Neg cites: email [[mailto:jmcgoo22@gmail.com|jmcgoo22@gmail.com]] (alot of neg stuff we read is from SGS LN too)
==WHITMAN AFFIRMATIVE== 

===**CONTENTION ONE: INHERENCY**=== 
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE COUNTERINSURGENCY MISSION WILL INEVITABLY FAIL – MULTIPLE REASONS. A SMALL FOOTPRINT COUNTERTERRORISM STRATEGY IS MORE EFFECTIVE </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NELSON, 9</span></span> –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">former director of a Joint Task Force in support of Operation Enduring Freedom, retired naval officer with assignments at the National Counterterrorism Center and National Security Council, and Senior Fellow at the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (Rick, “The Other Side of the COIN”, 10/1, <span style="color: black;">http://csis.org/publication/other-side-coin</span>)</span>
Q1: General McChrystal is expected…<span style="font-size: 7pt;">“</span>all-in” approach would entail.

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CROSS BORDER SANCTUARIES, GOVERNMENT CORRUPTION, ETHNIC TENSIONS WITHIN THE AFGHAN ARMY AND THE UTTER FAILURE OF POPULATION PROTECTION MAKES COIN FAILURE INEVITABLE </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">DORRONSORO, 10 </span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, is an expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia. Previously, Dorronsoro was a professor of political science at the Sorbonne, Paris and the Institute of Political Studies of Rennes (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” In These Times, 5/24, <span class="Underline">http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863</span> </span>

<span class="Underline">The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan is…</span> <span class="underline0">equivalent of a strategic defeat.</span>

PLAN: THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE ITS COUNTERINSURGENCY PRESENCE IN AFGHANISTAN


===**CONTENTION TWO: HEGEMONY**=== 
**THE WAR IN AFGHANISTAN WILL COLLAPSE AMERICAN PRIMACY – WE’LL ISOLATE THREE INTERNAL LINKS**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">FIRST IS CREDIBILITY – OBAMA ANNOUNCED A 2011 WITHDRAWAL DATE, BUT IT IS BASED ON THE CONDITIONAL SUCCESS OF THE COUNTERINSURGENCY MISSION. THIS DEADLINE IS __PERCEIVED__ AS UNCONDITIONAL WITHDRAWAL AND HAS CREATED GLOBAL CONFUSION </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ROGIN, 10</span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - staff writer for Foreign Policy, Prior to that, Josh covered defense and foreign policy for Congressional Quarterly. Josh has also worked at the House International Relations Committee, and the Brookings Institution (Josh, “Petraeus: Withdrawal timeline does not mean "switching off the lights",” The Cable, 6/29, </span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">http://thecable.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/06/29/petraeus_withdrawal_timeline_does_not_mean_switching_off_the_lights</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

When General David Petraeus testifies… <span class="underline0">exactly what they've been doing."</span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE JULY 2011 ANNOUNCEMENT DESTROYED THE PERCEPTION OF U.S COMMITMENT TO AFGHANISTAN – THEY SEE US AS CUTTING AND RUNNING </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">RUBIN, 10</span></span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute; senior lecturer at the Naval Postgraduate School's Center for Civil-Military Relations; and a senior editor of the //Middle East Quarterly//. (Michael, Public Square, 3/8, “The Afghanistan Withdrawal: Why Obama Was Wrong to Insist on a Deadline,” http://www.michaelrubin.org/7033/afghanistan-withdrawal-deadline) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0">It is true</span><span class="Underline">,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as Schlesinger…</span> <span class="underline0">Pakistan, Iran, and even Russia. </span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">SECOND IS OVERSTRECH – COIN IS OVERSTRETCHING THE US MILITARY AND EXHAUSTING AMERICAN LEADERSHIP – WITHDRAWING TO A COUNTERTERRORISM STRATEGY IS VITAL TO PREVENTING GREAT POWER CHALLENGERS </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">KRETKOWSKI, 10</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html)</span>
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Over the winter break I…</span> <span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: yellow;">power</span> (China, a reinvigorated Russia). </span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFGHANISTAN IS A QUAGMIRE OF ATTRITION WARFARE THAT IS DESTROYING US MORALE AND READINESS. </span></span>**
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**KUHNER, 9** -</span></span> <span style="color: black;">the president of the Edmund Burke Institute for American Renewal<span class="Underline"> (Jeffrey, Washington Times, “Obama’s quagmire; US should look to its own interests,” 9/7, Lexis Academic) </span></span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0">America is losing the war… evil, welcoming arms of extremists.</span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THIS WILL OBLITERATE AMERICAN PRIMACY </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PYNE, 9</span></span>****<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> - </span>**<span class="justify1"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0">Since we invaded Iraq six... ally Georgia</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> this past year. </span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AMERICAN PRIMACY PREVENTS MULTIPLE SCENARIOS FOR CONFLICT—THE ONLY THREAT TO WORLD PEACE IS IF WE ALLOW IT TO COLLAPSE </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THAYER, 6</span></span>****<span style="color: black;"> - </span>**<span style="color: black;">professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 5pt;">But </span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">retrenchment</span>__<span style="background-color: yellow;">,</span> <span style="font-size: 5pt;">in any of its</span>…__<span style="background-color: yellow;"> want to resolve things amicably</span>.__ </span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THIRD IS THE DOLLAR – MAINTAINING A LARGE COUNTERINSURGENCY STRATEGY WILL BANKRUPT THE US, END THE DOLLAR AND COLLAPSE GLOBAL US FINANCIAL INFLUENCE </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CORN, 9</span></span>** – Ph.D. from the University of Paris and is a graduate of the U.S. Naval War College, currently on leave from the US State Department (Tony, “Toward a Kilcullen-Biden Plan?
Bounding Counterinsurgency in Afghanistan,” Small Wars Journal, 10/21,
[[http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2009/10/toward-a-kilcullenbiden-plan/]]

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="color: black;">Just do the math - </span><span class="underline0">with 63,000…</span><span style="color: black;"> by Vice-President Joe Biden. </span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ECONOMIC LEADERSHIP PREVENTS ECONOMIC COLLAPSE—LEADERSHIP PRESERVES RESILIENCE </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MANDELBAUM 5</span></span>** – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005 [Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 192-195]

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Although the spread of nuclear weapons…</span> <span class="underline0">fleet of cars without gasoline. </span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THAT GOES NUCLEAR WITHOUT ECONOMIC LEADERSHIP </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MANDELBAUM 5</span></span>** – Professor and Director of the American Foreign Policy Program at Johns Hopkins – 2005 [Michael, The Case for Goliath: How America Acts As the World’s Government in the Twenty-First Century, p. 224]

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">At best, an American withdrawal… <span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: yellow;">large numbers, of nuclear weapons</span>.</span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">OBAMA WILL SELL THE PLAN AS A DRAWDOWN TO A LIGHTER BUT PERMANENT COMMITMENT TO AFGHANISTAN – THIS RESOLVES CONFUSION OVER THE WITHDRAWAL DEADLINE AND RESTORES US CREDIBILITY </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">STEWART, 10</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (Rory, “<span class="sifr-alternate">Afghanistan: What Could Work”, New York Review of Books, 1/14, </span></span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2010/jan/14/afghanistan-what-could-work/?page=3]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span class="underline0">By asserting convincingly that Afghanistan… much greater focus on Kashmir </span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">REDUCING PRESENCE TO JUST COUNTERTERRORISM CREATES SUSTAINABLE PRESENCE, PREVENTS VACILLATIONS BETWEEN ENGAGEMENT AND ISOLATIONISM AND REDUCES FINANCIAL STRESS </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">STEWART, 9</span></span>****-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights and Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” [[http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan]]) </span>

<span class="underline0">The best Afghan policy would…</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> long-term, less will be more. </span>




**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE PLAN CAUSES A SHIFT TO SELECTIVE ENGAGEMENT – MAKES GLOBAL PRESENCE SUSTAINABLE </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">GVENTER, 9</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Senior Defense Analyst at the RAND Corporation and a former deputy assistant secretary of defense. She served two tours in Iraq, including a year as a senior adviser to General Peter Chiarelli, the operational commander in Iraq in 2006 (Celeste, “False Promise of 'Counterinsurgency'”, 12/1, </span>[[http://www.rand.org/commentary/2009/12/01/NYT.html]]<span style="color: black;">) </span>

<span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: yellow;">An effort to conduct "counterinsurgency"</span>... capable of applying overwhelming force. </span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">WITHDRAWAL ALLOWS THE US TO REPLENISH ITS STRATEGIC RESERVE </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">FRIEDMAN, 10</span></span>** - American political scientist. He is the chief intelligence officer, and CEO of the private intelligence corporation Stratfor. Prior to Stratfor, Friedman spent almost twenty years in academia, teaching political science at Dickinson College. During this time, he regularly briefed senior commanders in the armed services as well as the U.S. Army War College (George, “The 30-Year War in Afghanistan,” Stratfor, 6/29,
[[http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/20100628_30_year_war_afghanistan]])

There is an anomaly in… <span class="underline0">re-establish its ground reserves. </span>


===**CONTENTION THREE: AL-QAEDA**=== 
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AL QAEDA IS ACTIVELY SEEKING NUCLEAR WEAPONS FOR USE</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> EVANS 10</span></span>** <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, Pentagon Correspondent, Washington, April 12, “Hillary Clinton fears al-Qaeda is obtaining nuclear weapons material”,http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/world/us_and_americas/article7094876.ece)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0">Terrorists including <span style="background-color: yellow;">al-Qaeda pose</span>… be used for nuclear bombs. </span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THAT IS THE SINGLE GREATEST THREAT TO SECURITY – MATERIAL HAS ALREADY BEEN STOLEN AND AN ATTACK IS COMING IN 2013</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> HALL, 10</span></span>** (Mimi, USA Today, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, 4/12, [[http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm]]

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">President Obama is asking world… <span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: yellow;">a terrorist attack" by 2013.</span> </span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NUCLEAR TERRORISM CAUSES EXTINCTION </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MORGAN, 9</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;">In a remarkable website on… <span class="underline0">suffering in a nuclear winter. </span></span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AFGHANISTAN IS THE ONLY STAGING POINT FOR AL-QAEDA TO LAUNCH A LARGE-SCALE ATTACK </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">ARKEDIS, 9</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> - director of the National Security Project at the Progressive Policy Institute. He was a counterterrorism analyst with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service from 2002 to 2007 (Jim, “Why Al Qaeda Wants a Safe Haven”, 10/23, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/10/23/got_safe_haven]]</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">) </span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0"><span style="background-color: yellow;">I spent five years as</span>... <span style="background-color: yellow;">physical space it can access</span>. </span></span>




**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">US PRESENCE STRENGTHENS AL QAEDA – IT INCREASES RECRUITING</span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">CLEMONS 10</span></span>** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Bruce Ackerman, Yale University, Gordon Adams, American University and Stimson Center, Amjad Atallah, New America Foundation, James Bamford, Author/Documentary Producer, Darcy Burner, Progressive Caucus Action Fund, James Clad, National Defense University, Steve Clemons, New America Foundation and The Washington Note, Juan Cole, University of Michigan and Informed Comment, Patrick Cronin, Center for a New American Security, Arnaud de Borchgrave, Center for Strategic & International Studies, Graciana del Castillo, Columbia University, Michael C. Desch, University of Notre Dame, Robert H. Donaldson, University of Tulsa, Bernard I. Finel, National War College, James K. Galbraith, University of Texas-Austin, James Goldgeier, George Washington University, William C. Goodfellow, Center for International Policy, Selig S. Harrison, Center for International Policy, Leo Hindery, Jr., Chair, US Economy/Smart Globalization Initiative at the New America Foundation, Matthew P. Hoh, Former U.S. Marine Officer and former Department of State official, Michael Intriligator, University of California, Los Angeles and The Milken Institute, Robert Jervis, Columbia University, Sean Kay, Ohio Wesleyan University, Parag Khanna, New America Foundation and former Senior Geopolitical Officer, US Special Operations Forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, W. Patrick Lang, Former Defense Intelligence Officer, South Asia and Publisher, Sic Semper Tyrannis, Flynt Leverett, New America Foundation and Race for Iran, Hillary Mann Leverett, Yale University and Race for Iran, Anatol Lieven, King’s College London and New America Foundation, Justin Logan, Cato Institute, John Mueller, Ohio State University, Robert A. Pape, University of Chicago, Paul R. Pillar, Georgetown University, Barry Posen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Jason Rosenbaum, Writer, Priya Satia, Stanford University, Stephen Schlesinger, Century Foundation, Sherle R. Schwenninger, New America Foundation, Michael Shank, Office of US Congressman Michael Honda and Afghanistan Taskforce Chair, Congressional Progressive Caucus, J.P. Singh, Georgetown University, Richard Vague, The Governor’s Woods Foundation, American Strategy Program Leadership Council, and New America Foundation, Martin Walker, Woodrow Wilson Center, Stephen M. Walt, Harvard University, Col Lawrence B. Wilkerson (USA, ret), College of William & Mary, Former Chief of Staff, US Department of State, Jeffrey Winters, Northwestern University, Leighton Woodhouse, Labor Organizer, Mosharraf Zaidi, International Development Expert and Columnist</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 8/19/10, “A NEW WAY FORWARD: Rethinking U.S. Strategy in Afghanistan”, [[http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/?page_id=27]])</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="underline0">In short, a complete (and…</span> been inspired by similar motivations.</span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**A LARGE FOOTPRINT MAKES PAKISTANI COOPERATION IMPOSSIBLE – THAT’S NECESSARY TO SOLVE TERROR**</span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **SIMON AND STEVENSON** 9</span></span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">(Steven Simon is Adjunct Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. Jonathan Stevenson is a Professor of Strategic Studies at the US Naval War College. “Afghanistan: How Much is Enough?”,</span> //<span style="color: black;">Survival: Global Politics and Strategy,</span>// <span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">vol. 51, no. 5, October–November 2009, pp. 47–67 | Suo)</span>

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">The Obama administration’s instincts favouring</span>…<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> effectively and with greater justice</span>.</span>

**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A COUNTERTERRORISM POSTURE EMPIRICALLY WORKS – IT REDUCES THE THREAT OF TERRORISM AND CAN PROVIDE ACTIONABLE INTELLIGENCE WITHOUT UNDERMINING US CREDIBILITY </span></span>**
**<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">LONG, 10</span></span>** - assistant professor at Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (Austin, “Small is Beautiful: The Counterterrorism Option in Afghanistan,” Orbis, Spring 2010, Science Direct)

<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">However, here </span><span class="underline0"><span style="font-size: 7pt;">the</span> argument is… <span style="background-color: yellow;">alternative</span> for the United States.</span></span>

==GLENBROOKS/BERKELEY AFFIRMATIVE== 
===1AC - PLAN TEXT=== 

THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE ITS COUNTERINSURGENCY PRESENCE FROM THE PASHTUN BELT IN AFGHANISTAN.

===1AC - PASHTUN RESISTANCE=== 

CONTENTION ONE: PASHTUN RESISTANCE

COUNTERINSURGENCY IN THE PASHTUN BELT IS FAILING AND RADICALIZING THE PASHTUN PEOPLE

A. COUNTERINSURGENCY ‘CENTRAL GOVERNMENT’ EXTENSION TACTICS DERIDE PASHTUN CULTURE AND FUEL JIHADS
<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">JOHNSON AND MASON 8 </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(M. Chris Mason, Senior Fellow at the Center for Advanced Defense Studies and a political officer on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border and retired from the U.S. Foreign Service, and Thomas H. Johnson, Senior Research Associate for NPS’ <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.nps.edu/Programs/index.asp|Center for Contemporary Conflict]]</span> and U.S. delegation to the NATO WMD Warning and Reporting Panel and serves as co-chairman of the NATO sub panel of NBC Communication and Information System Interoperability and Integration. “No Sign until the Burst of Fire Understanding the Pakistan-Afghanistan Frontier.” International Security, Volume 32, Number 4, Spring 2008, pp. 41-77 (Article). Project Muse.) A.V </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Another</span> of the… forms of <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">governance</span></span><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">.</span>

B. A LARGE COIN FOOTPRINT DRIVES THE PASHTUNS TO THE TALIBAN
FULLER, 9 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(</span><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">CIA officer for 25 years, former CIA station chief in Kabul and a former vice-chair of the CIA's National Intelligence Council (Graham, Christian Science Monitor, 12/2, "Obama speech: kicking the can down the road in Afghanistan", lexis) AV </span>
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Most Pashtuns will </span>…a prominent terrorist group. </span>

C. EXTREMISM IS BEGINNING TO INVADE PASHTUN IDEOLOGY – THIS IMPLICATES COUNTERINSURGENCY TACTICS
<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">JOHNSON AND MASON 8 </span></span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(M. Chris Mason, Senior Fellow at the Center for Advanced Defense Studies and a political officer on the Pakistan-Afghanistan border and retired from the U.S. Foreign Service, and Thomas H. Johnson, Senior Research Associate for NPS’ <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.nps.edu/Programs/index.asp|Center for Contemporary Conflict]]</span> and U.S. delegation to the NATO WMD Warning and Reporting Panel and serves as co-chairman of the NATO sub panel of NBC Communication and Information System Interoperability and Integration. “No Sign until the Burst of Fire Understanding the Pakistan-Afghanistan Frontier.” International Security, Volume 32, Number 4, Spring 2008, pp. 41-77 (Article). Project Muse.) A.V </span>
<span class="underline"> <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The invasion of</span>…traditional tribal governance structures. </span>

<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PASHTUN TALIBANIZATION LEADS TO AFGHAN ETHNIC FRAGMENTATION AND A PASHTUN STATE – THAT DESTABILIZES AFGHANISTAN AND PAKISTAN, RESULTING IN MULTIPLE NUCLEAR CONFLICTS THAT CAUSE EXTINCTION</span></span>
<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> MORGAN 7</span></span> (Stephen John, Former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.electricarticles.com/display.aspx?id=639]]</span>) AV
<span class="underline">Although disliked and…</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan! » </span>

PLAN SOLVES – PRESENCE IS THE ONLY UNITING FACTOR OF RADICAL PASHTUNS – REDUCING COUNTERINSURGENCY ALLOWS MODERATE ISLAMISTS TO PREVAIL OVER THE EXTREMISTS
FULLER, 9 – <span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">former vice chair of the CIA National Intelligence Council, and CIA Station Chief in Kabul (Graham, “Obama's Policies Making Situation Worse in Afghanistan and Pakistan,” Huffington Post, 5/10, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/graham-e-fuller/global-viewpoint-obamas-p_b_201355.html) AV</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">For all the talk of "smart power," President Obama is pressing down the same path of failure in Pakistan marked out by George Bush. The realities suggest need for drastic revision of U.S. strategic thinking. -- </span><span class="underline">Military force will …</span>approaching a state of co-dependency.
<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NOW IS KEY - INSURGENTS ON THE BORDER ARE FORMING SYNDICATES IN RESPONSE TO COIN FORCES </span></span>
<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">SHANKER 12/28/10</span></span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Thom, Pentagon Correspondent for the New York Times - formerly foreign editor of the Chicago Tribune, and has written on foreign policy, military affairs and the intelligence community for The New York Review of Books, The New Republic, The American Journalism Review and The New York Times Magazine . "Insurgents Set Aside Rivalries on Afghan Border." <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/29/world/asia/29military.html?pagewanted=1]]</span>) AV</span>
WASHINGTON <span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">— Rival militant organizations </span>… found a haven. </span>

===1AC - HEGEMONY=== 

CONTENTION TWO: HEGEMONY

AFGHANISTAN IS DESTROYING OUR PRIMACY; PLAN SOLVES.

A. OVERSTRECH - THE CURRENT STRATEGY IS PERPETUATING DOMESTIC BACKLASH WHICH IS EXHAUSTING AMERICAN LEADERSHIP – THIS UNDERMINES OUR POWER PROJECTION AND CAUSES ISOLATIONISM
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">KRETKOWSKI, 10</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt;">Frequently assists think tank in conferences and other work products that aid DoD's long-term thinking about threats that may not be addressable via weapons platforms. Spent six months in Afghanistan working with Army public affairs. (Paul, “Against COIN, for CT in Afghanistan and Elsewhere”, 1/7, Beacon (a blog), http://softpowerbeacon.blogspot.com/2010/01/against-coin-for-ct-in-afghanistan-and.html) </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Over the winter …</span><span class="underline">, a reinvigorated Russia). </span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THIS WILL OBLITERATE AMERICAN PRIMACY </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PYNE, 9</span></span>**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;"> - </span>**<span class="justify1"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Vice Chair of the Utah State Legislative Compensation Commission and Vice President of the Association of the United States Army's Utah chapter and a Vice President of the Salt Lake Total Force Chapter of the Military Officers Association of America (David, “</span></span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Obama failing our troops in Afghanistan,” 11/7, http://westernfrontamerica.com/2009/11/07/obama-failing-troops-afghanistan/) </span>
<span class="underline">Since we invaded …Georgia</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;"> this past year. </span>

<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">PLAN SOLVES - A REDUCTION FROM THE PASHTUN BELT AND A REFOCUS ON THE NORTH AND WEST RESTORES DOMESTIC CONSENSUS TO OUR FOREIGN POLICY, SOLVES MILITARY OVERSTRECH, AND PREVENTS A HASTY FULL WITHDRAWAL AND DEFEAT </span></span>
<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BLACKWILL 10</span></span> (Robert D., U.S. ambassador to India, deputy national security advisor for strategic planning and presidential envoy to Iraq in the George W. Bush administration, "A De Facto Partition for Afghanistan." Politico,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/publication/20240/de_facto_partition_for_afghanistan.html?breadcrumb=%25]]</span> AV)
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Or it can adopt new</span>… run out of Afghanistan</span>.

A HASTY FULL WITHDRAWAL EMBOLDENS NUCLEAR TERRORIST ATTACKS ON THE U.S AND DESTROYS LEADERSHIP – EXPERT CONSENSUS.
SINHA, 2009 <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[Sylvana, attorney working in Afghanistan on development projects, “President Obama, don’t listen to the public on Afghanistan”, 9-14, http://afpak.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/14/president_obama_don_t_listen_to_the_public_on_afghanistan] </span>
<span class="underline">To anyone</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">who … during the Bush era. </span>

<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">NUCLEAR TERRORISM CAUSES EXTINCTION - MULTIPLE SCENARIOS</span></span>
<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> AYSON 10</span></span> - Robert, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” //Studies in Conflict & Terrorism//, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)
<span style="color: black; font-size: 9pt;">A terrorist nuclear attack…</span><span class="underline">of nuclear restraint.</span>

B. CREDIBILITY - AFGHANISTAN IS CRUSHING AMERICA'S CREDIBILITY INTERNATIONALLY - THIS HAMSTRINGS OUR ABILITY TO DETER ADVERSARIES
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">TWINING 9</span></span> (Dan, Fulbright/Oxford Scholar at Oxford University, a Transatlantic Fellow and Director of the Foreign Policy Program at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, and a staff member of the United States Trade Representative, September 30, 2009, Foreign Policy, [shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/09/30/the_stakes_of_afghanistan_go_well_beyond_afghanistan] AD: 12/23/10)jm
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The problem with the …</span><span class="Underline0"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">neither our interests nor our values</span></span>.

<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND PLAN’S KEY TO OVERALL STRATEGY AND PASHTUN MODERATE INFLUENCE – THAT STABILIZES AFGHANISTAN AND RESTORES U.S CREDIBILITY </span></span>
<span class="tagCharCharChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">BROOKS 9</span></span> (Webster Brooks, Foreign Policy Analyst for foreignpolicyreview.org, “Obama Can Win Afghanistan With Soft Partition & the “Reverse McChrystal Strategy.” October 18th, 2009. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://brooksreview.wordpress.com/2009/10/18/obama-can-win-afghanistan-with-soft-partition-the-%E2%80%9Creverse-mccrystal-strategy%E2%80%9D/]]</span>
<span class="underline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">The</span></span><span style="color: #1c2837;"> Reverse McChrystal </span><span class="underline">...militarily and drain its politic</span>

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND ALL YOUR IMPACTS ARE BELONG TO US - INDEPENDENTLY, AMERICAN HEGEMONY PREVENTS MULTIPLE SCENARIOS FOR CONFLICT—THE ONLY THREAT TO WORLD PEACE IS IF WE ALLOW IT TO COLLAPSE </span></span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">THAYER, 6</span></span>**<span style="color: black;"> - </span>**<span style="color: black;">professor of security studies at Missouri State (Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37) </span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">But </span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">retrenchment</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">,</span> <span style="font-size: 5pt;">in any of its guis­es, must be avoided…</span>
Strategy offers both.


=NEGATIVE= 
==<span style="border-bottom-color: #000000; border-bottom-style: solid; border-bottom-width: 1px; font-size: 1.4em; margin-bottom: 5px; margin-left: 0px; margin-right: 0px; margin-top: 5px; padding-bottom: 0px; padding-left: 0px; padding-right: 0px; padding-top: 5px;">[[#_Toc268035231]]</span>== 

THEIR CONSTRUCTION OF NORTH KOREA AS A THREAT STEMS FROM THE IDENTITY CRISIS POST-COLD WAR – THAT IDEOLOGY CRAVES AN EXTERNAL ENEMY MAKING ROGUE STATES THE NEW SOVIET UNION

<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">BLEIKER 3 </span></span>(Roland, prof of International Relations @ U of Queensland, Brisbane, //International Affairs//, 79(4), p. 730-732)JM
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The conflict pattern... us or against us.'57 </span>


<span style="font-size: 14px; line-height: 21px;">THEIR DISCOURSE OBSCURES THE ROLE WE PLAY IN PERPETUATING SECURITY DILEMMAS, ENDS EFFECTIVE DISCUSSION OF SOLUTIONS, AND JUSTIFIES ABSOLUTE VIOLENCE</span>

<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">BLEIKER 3</span></span> (Roland, prof of International Relations @ U of Queensland, Brisbane, //International Affairs//, 79(4), p. 720-722)JM
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The purpose of this...</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and ethical issues.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">9 </span>

THE ALT IS TO REJECT THE AFF’S APPROACH TO IR – THEIR POLITICS ARE IDEOLOGICAL AND HIGHLY PROBLEMATIC – ONLY BY DIVORCING OUR APPROACH FROM SUCH ASSUMPTIONS CAN WE CREATE AN EFFECTIVE SOLUTION TO THE CRISIS ON THE PENINSULA

<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">BLEIKER 3</span></span> (Roland, prof of International Relations @ U of Queensland, Brisbane, //International Affairs//, 79(4), p. 736-737)JM
This article has...<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"><span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: fuchsia; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"> dilemmas of Korean security.</span> </span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">__**GENERALLY**__</span>
Check SGS LN's wiki for some of our generic arguments.


__**SOME ARGUMENTS WE READ ON THE NEGATIVE**__

**TOPICALITY:** We've read T-presence=troops, T-substantial=atleast 50%, T-must be existing, <span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;">and other topicality arguments that challenge the relevance of the aff's plan to the resolution.</span>

**<span style="line-height: normal;">COUNTERPLANS: </span>**<span style="line-height: normal;">We've read the XO CP, some advantage CPs, the Congress CP, and other Counterplans that test the germaneness of the affirmative.</span>

**KRITIKS:** We've read Nietzsche, Schopenhauer, Security, and <span style="font-family: arial,sans-serif; line-height: normal;">and other K's that challenge conventional mindsets.</span>

**DISADS:** We've read the START politics DA, the heg DA, the deterrence DA, the India relations DA, and other disads that propose disadvantages to the passage of the affirmative.

**__SPECIFIC ROUNDS:__**

**WHITMAN - ROUND 2**
**VS. CENTENNIAL**
**AFF**:
CRITICAL TNWs (Oedipus/Dillon)
**NEG:**
HEG DA
T - PRESENCE (TNWs)
T - SUBSTANTIAL (TNWs)
NIETZSCHE K
CASE - REALISM, POSITIVISM
2NR: T - PRESENCE


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**WHITMAN - ROUND 4**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**VS. ASHLAND**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**AFF**:</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">COIN BAD</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**NEG:**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">INDIA DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CONGRESS CP</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">EXECUTIVE POWERS DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">SEABASING CP</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CASE - CT BAD, HEGEMONY, TERRORISM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR: CONGRESS CP AND EXECUTIVE POWERS DA</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**WHITMAN - ROUND 6**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**VS. BOISE** </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**AFF**:</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CRITICAL TNWs </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**NEG:**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">HEG DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">T - PRESENCE (TNWs)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">T - SUBSTANTIAL (TNWs)</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">KAPPELER K</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">NFU CP </span>
TURKEY RELATIONS DA
2NR: NFU CP AND HEG DA

**GLENBROOKS - ROUND 1**
**VS. EAGEN**
**AFF**:
CRITICAL SOUTH KOREA (ORIENTALISM/FEM IR)
**NEG:**
HEG DA
START POLITICS
CONSULT NATO
CASE
2NR: CONSULT NATO AND HEG DA

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**GLENBROOKS - ROUND 3**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **VS. GULLIVER PREP** **AFF**: COUNTERNARCOTICS **NEG:** T - SUBSTANTIAL CONGRESS CP W/ EXECUTIVE POWERS NET BENEFIT SCHOPENHAUER K 2NR: SCHOPENHAUER K **GLENBROOKS - ROUND 5** **VS. KINKAID RD** **AFF**: SOUTH KOREA **NEG:**</span>


**GLENBROOKS - ROUND 5**
**VS. KINKAID AFF:** SOUTH KOREA (REGIONALISM/KOREAN WAR) **NEG:**
ASIA THREAT CONSTRUCTION K
START POLITICS
CONGRESS CP W/ EXECUTIVE POWERS NB
CASE
2NR: CONGRESS CP AND NB


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**GLENBROOKS - ROUND 7**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **VS. CATHEDRAL PREP** **AFF**: CRITICAL IRAQ (ORIENTALISM/DEMOCRACY PROMOTION BAD) **NEG:**</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">START POLITICS</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> HEG DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> NIETZSCHE K</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> CONGRESS CP W/ EXECUTIVE POWERS NB</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> 2NR: CONGRESS CP AND NB</span>




<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**CAL - ROUND 2**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **VS. HEAD ROYCE** **AFF**: CRITICAL AFGHANISTAN PTSD **NEG:**</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> T- SUBSTANTIAL</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">SCHOPENHAUER K </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR: T - SUBSTANTIAL</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**CAL - ROUND 3**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **VS. ST. VINCENT** **AFF**: CRITICAL SOUTH KOREA **NEG:**</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> T - PRESENCE </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">HEG DA </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">NIETZSCHE K </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CASE - REALISM</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR: T - PRESENCE</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">**CAL - ROUND 6**</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> **VS. TUALTIN** **AFF**: TNWs **NEG:**</span>



<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> HEG DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">T - PRESENCE</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">NIETZSCHE K </span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">CASE - IMPACT D, </span>TURKEY PROLIF DA</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">2NR: HEG DA, TURKEY PROLIF DA, IMPACT D </span>