<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[toc]]
</span>



**If you have questions email snelling101@gmail.com**
=<span style="font-size: 1.4em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Affirmative**</span>= 

==<span style="font-size: 1.3em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;"> Guernica 1AC </span>== 
This aff is performed in front of a reproduction of Guernica.The Schama articles include the full text to prevent misunderstandings on the version we read.




<span class="ReadingTextChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">We begin with Simon Schama: </span></span>
<span style="line-height: normal;">(Transcripted from: Simon Schama`s (quals: British/Art Historian Columbia University Professor) Power of Art (2006) | TV Series , Season 1 , Episode 7. Full text available on-line: http://movie.subtitlr.com/subtitle/show/134781) </span>
Juxtapose this evidence with the descriptions of bombing Falluja. It's about four in the afternoon in the little town of Guernica,
15 miles from Bilbao, in the north of Spain.
Seven thousand souls
going about their market-day business in the ancestral homeland of the Basques.
A people with their own language, culture and fierce sense of identity.
In the raging Civil War, the Basques were stalwartly anti-Franco.
A black speck appears in the blue.
The solitary plane is German, from the Luftwaffe's Condor Legion.
It wheels over the town,
then, almost casually, drops six bombs. Waves of German and Italian aircraft,
flying in formation, created a relentless storm of havoc.
Over 5,000 bombs were dropped on the defenceless town.
When the people of Guernica fled into the streets and fields,
the pilots strafed them with machine-gun fire.
A rain of incendiary bombs finished the job,
turning the town into an ashy cauldron.
1,645 die.
Thousands more are terribly wounded.
The commander of the Condor Legion, Colonel Wolfram von Richthofen, was extremely gratified by the action.
So surgically precise, so tremendously modern.
Guernica literally levelled to the ground.
Bomb craters in the streets. Simply terrific.
Perfect conditions for a great victory.
There was nothing in Guernica that could possibly be designated a military target.
What was special about Guernica was the brutality and clarity of the objective,
to terrorise defenceless civilians from the air,
and to send a message to the rest of Spain and to the world,
''This is what we can do and this is what we will do.'…

<span style="display: block; text-align: center;"><span class="ReadingTextChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Shama Continues His Discussion (this occurs later in the TV show so text is omitted for space reasons we do have a full text copy if you would like it for reading purposes.) </span></span></span>
…George Steer, correspondent for The London Times,
covering the Basque war from Bilbao, got himself to Guernica.
Blocks of wreckage slithered and crashed from the houses.
And from their sides, which were still erect,
the polished heat struck at our cheeks and eyes.
Throughout the night, houses were falling,
until the streets became long heaps of red, impenetrable debris.
Guernica had gone Cubist.
Steer's report is reprinted in the French paper Ce Soir,
with a dramatic front-page picture. The nocturnal inferno burns itself into Picasso's visual imagination.
That's why he pictures Guernica as a night massacre,
even though it was actually death in the afternoon.
In his Paris studio, Picasso summons art
for the most serious thing he's ever attempted, telling the truth.
Of course, he's not going to compete with Steer's gritty report from Guernica.
But if the painting succeeds, it will transcend mere factual chronicle.
It will be Cubism with a conscience.
What Picasso was setting out to make
was something foreign to the very nature of modern art, the art he had defined.
He was about to try and make a truly modern history painting.
It was the tallest order of his life,
to turn from icon-breaker to icon-maker.
So everything he'd ever touched in his art and his life
had to come together for this one moment.
The excitement of modernism,
the obsession with the art of the past
and his own intimate experiences of love and grief.
He would need all the help he could get. But there was an accomplice waiting in the wings.
He'd met her in a Paris cafe.
He could hardly have missed her.
Her name is Dora Maar, a Croatian photographer,
intellectual and accomplished Surrealist.
Picasso made an offer for the bloodstained glove,
and won a fiery new lover and a creative partner.
Dora became a fixture in the studio,
and Picasso's unofficial photographer,
capturing him at work as Guernica evolved. On May 1st, 1937, Picasso gets down to it.
He starts with rough sketches, barely more than scribbles.
Graphite on paper.
Thoughts racing ahead of the hand.
And the essential cast of characters, so long on his mind,
so deep in his psyche, reappear.
The wounded horse.
The massive bull.
The candlelight bearer.
Don't imagine, though, that Picasso is in the remorseless grip of his new vision. All through the next week, with the deadline for the Paris fair coming on fast,
he does no work at all on the painting.
He goes to see his other lover, Marie Thérese, and their new baby on the weekend.
And he umpires a catfight between her and Dora.
Heady emotions swirl around Picasso,
and he can't resist transferring the complicated agony of his personal life
to his political art.
Heads of women trapped with arteries of excruciating pain,
punctured with tears, begin to appear in the Guernica drawings.
He's become the impresario of anguish. Marie Thérese and his young daughter, Maya, visit the studio, too.
The toddler smearing her hands in the fresh paint of Guernica.
Visions of domestic tragedy.
Dead babies,
distraught mothers process through his mind.
He begins working on the actual painting.
Twenty feet long and 12 feet high,
the canvas is too tall to fit between the roof rafters and the floor of the studio,
so it's propped up against the wall.
Dora snaps Picasso as he perches on a ladder to reach the top of the painting. Picasso chain-smokes his way through it in a storm of furious creativity.
In the early versions of the painting, there are images of hope and defiance.
But as Picasso gets deeper into Guernica, those slight gestures of optimism
collapse into the bleaker, overwhelming tragedy.
A clenched socialist fist of resistance rising from the pile of bodies
appears in several early sketches,
but this thought fades and disappears from the final painting.
In earlier versions, the shrieking horse with the fatal gash in its side
had a little winged horse, Pegasus,
the mythical symbol of the birth of art and poetry, born out of the wound, as if to say,
something good may come from blood.
But it ends with a deep, black, lozenge-shaped hole in the horse,
right at the optical dead-centre of the painting.
The fallen warrior originally was grander, stronger,
his head helmeted like a classical hero.
But Picasso has turned the warrior on his back, mouth open, gaping,
slack-jawed, helpless.
If he's a good partisan,
Picasso ought to be delivering something upbeat amidst the carnage, but he hasn't the stomach for callow optimism.
So the signs of redemption now are puny, though telling.
A single daisy.
And on the fallen warrior's hand, startlingly, an unmistakable puncture mark.
The stigmata of the martyred Christ.
What brought this into Picasso's head? Wasn't he supposed to be the worldly modernist?
Wasn't it General Franco who was supposed to be the Christian soldier?
Well, that was the point, of course.
The idea was to turn the tables on all those holy rollers.
What was in Picasso's head now was one more indelible image of the agony of his nation.
And one which every Spaniard would have known,
Goya's 3rd of May, 1808.
This, too, was the response of an artist seething at cruelty and massacre.
In this case, the execution in Madrid
of the rebels who had risen against Napoleon's invading army.
But it's coloured by an ancient Christian hope,
especially deeply rooted in Spain,
that of salvation.
The defiant rebel is dying a saviour's death, arms flung wide like the crucified Christ.
The stigmata appearing on his opened palm.
There's something else that ties Goya's execution to Picasso's slaughter,
something that turns the conventions of art on their head,
and that's the alternation of light from good to evil.
In everything ever written about art, everything ever done in painting,
light is the bringer of beauty, of sublime dignity.
Not here.
Here it's the instrument of slaughter.
The sallow gleam in which the machine men go about their dirty business in the dead of night. Just obeying orders.
Now, look at Guernica.
You feel the heave and swell of that pyramid of writhing bodies,
thrusting up through the painting, don't you?
But what do they strain towards?
An evil eye.
And within that evil eye,
the merciless glare of a single electric light bulb.
It's the incandescence of the exterminating angel,

the searchlight of the death squad and the targeting bomber. The bare bulb of the torturer's cell.
Against it is the candlelight, held straight out
by a heroically beautiful arm.
An epic battle, then, of the good and the wicked lights.
Art versus evil.
It's almost done.
But there's one more necessary touch.
He and Dora cover the body of the dying horse
with a field of sharp little downward strokes,
that make the body dissolve into a sea of newsprint or the light of a newsreel projector.
The marks are unreadable.
They're the visual equivalent of static.
Towering above them is the force of art,
breaking through the drone of news.
When he's finished painting, he knows he's done the impossible.
Created something that reaches deep into modern nightmares,
hectic, terrifying, burning, screaming.
There's no way out.
It's defiantly modern, but it also pulls us back into the tragedy of the ages.
A Cubist commotion, yet also a classical monument,
with it's wailing women flanking the massive pyramid of death.
It's just paint and canvas,
but it has the authority of stone.
It's unbombable, it's indestructible.
For this picture achieves a miracle.
Despite all the images of violence and disaster with which we're bombarded,
it makes us feel it.
It gets under our skin. This, for me, is what all great art has to do,
crash into our lazy routines.
The routine that Guernica tears into
is a sickness of our, as well as Picasso's, time.
The habit of taking violent evil in our stride.
The yawn at the massacre.
Seen it before, go away.
Don't spoil the fun of art.
But Guernica isn't with us for fun.
It's there to rip away the scar tissue. To make us bleed, to rob us of our sleep.
So, what can art do when the bombs start dropping?
It can instruct us on the obligations of being human.
In all the ways that really counted, Picasso had won,
art had won, humanity had won.
“And some things that should not have been forgotten were lost. History became legend. Legend became myth:”
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Here's the old thing, comfortably settled in Madrid.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> And just when you think, ''Well, it's a magnificent relic,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> ''what can it possibly have to say to us</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> ''in our video-saturated, digitally-enhanced age?''</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> something comes along to awaken from those old black-and-white characters</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> the tempestuous force of their original creation. In February 2003,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> the American delegation to the United Nations</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> decided to make its pessimistic case</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> for the likelihood of armed intervention in Iraq.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> Colin Powell's presentation to the Security Council was to be followed by a press conference.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> And then, at the last minute,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> someone noticed something inconvenient about the location.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> There was a tapestry reproduction of Guernica hanging on the wall.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> ''Oh, dear. Screaming women,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> burning houses, dead babies, jagged lines. '' ''Cover it up, ''said the TVpeople. ''It's too distracting. ''</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> So Guernica was shrouded by a big blue drape.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> The news handlers could have said,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> ''Hold on a minute, we could show the painting. After all, this is what tyrants do,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> ''death, suffering, misery. '' But they didn't.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> However you massaged it,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> there was something about the way that damned picture would look on the news</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> that would upset people.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> Much better to cover it up.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> It was, I suppose, the ultimate backhand compliment to the power of art. You're the mightiest country in the world, you can throw your armies around,</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> you can get rid of dictators.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;"> But, hey, don't tangle with a masterpiece.</span>



<span class="ReadingTextChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%; text-decoration: none;">Guernica…the smell of searing flesh…mothers…babies…bathed in fire…Basques on fire… …the ritual of human sacrifice…the awful spectacle…death in the afternoon and from above…god or democracy save Iraq…EXTERMINATE THE BRUTES!!!…the flash of steel and shock of blood…the bull draws its final breath (pause)…and then the curtain. Static replaced by the drone of news</span></span>…more static…whispers…1937…1943…1945…louder now…1968…1995…almost present… “I love the smell of napalm in the morning…”Not that voice…too much of that voice…2004…Fallujah…hundreds of thousands of voices displaced…others choked on white phosphorus or burned up with jet fuel…no longer… 
McKinney in 2006 Fallujah, the Guernica of Our Times, Part 6. November 11. Avaliable online: http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_mac_mcki_061103_fallujah_2c_the_guerni.htm

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Let us begin with information …This happened so many times</span>

We affirm the Guernica transformed by the face of another population killed to save it…now we are asked to substantially reduce military and or police presence in one of six nations. We use the lesson of Guernica to reconstellate the role of the United States in those six nations in the context of a nightmarish history of violence…Warsaw…Dresden…Mai Lai…Grozny…Fallujah…Iraq…Afghanistan…Japan…South Korea…Kuwait…Turkey…open for cross-x. 


==<span style="font-size: 1.3em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Spanos Nothing 1AC**</span>== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">IN ORDER TO BETTER UNDERSTAND THE UNDERPINNINGS OF AMERICA’S EXCEPTIONALIST WAR ON TERROR AND AMERICAN PRESENCE ABROAD – DISTINGUISHED PROFESSOR AT BINGHAMTON, WILLIAM V SPANOS CONDUCTS A DESTRUCTIVE GENEALOGY THAT PROVIDES DIRECTIVES FOR RESISTING AN AMERICAN MOMENTUM THAT THREATENS TO DESTABILIZE THE PLANET AND KILL OFF THE HUMAN SPECIES . HE BEGINS HIS 2008 BOOK __AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALISM IN THE AGE OF GLOBALIZATION__ BY SAYING . . .</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[william v, professor emeritus at the university of binghamton, __American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam__, 2008, SUNY Press pp. ix-xi]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span style="margin: 0in;">In this book I contend that <span class="underline">… and also for rethinking the very idea of America.</span></span>//</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">THE EFFORT TO FORGET VIETNAM –WHICH IS ANOTHER WAY OF SAYING FORGETTING ONTOLOGY – IS AN EXTENSION OF THE EXCEPTIONALIST DRIVE TO ELIMINATE DIFFERENCE IN A PARADOXICAL ‘KILL TO SAVE MENTALITY’ – SPANOS EXPLAINS</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[william v, professor emeritus at the university of binghamton, __American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam__, 2008, SUNY Press pp. 13]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span style="margin: 0in;">The war in Vietnam, … <span class="CharacterStyle2"><span style="font-size: 11.5pt; letter-spacing: -0.15pt;">very (spatial and temporal) being.</span></span></span>//</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">JUST AS THE UNITED STATES LOST THE WAR IN VIETNAM – IT IS NOW LOSING ON THE GLOBAL FRONTIER OF A WORLD UNWILLING TO BE OCCUPIED – INSTEAD OF ATTEMPTING TO BRING THOSE WHO REFUSE SPONTANEOUS CONSENT TO THE AMERICAN TRUTH INTO THE LIGHT – WE EMBRACE THEIR UNKNOWABILITY THE SAME WAY WE AFFIRM THE RESOLUTION: WE AFFIRM THE TOPICAL “NOTHING” WHICH IS NOT OPPOSED TO, BUT ‘PART OF’ Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially reduce its military and/or police presence in one or more of the following: South Korea, Japan, Afghanistan, Kuwait, Iraq, Turkey.</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">MOST AFFIRMATIVES THIS YEAR WILL DEFEND THE TOPIC AS ‘SOMETHING’: DEFINING THE TERMS OF THE RESOLUTION AND LOCATING A POLICY INSIDE THOSE BOUNDARIES – THIS IS A FORM OF IMPERIAL METAPHYSICS THAT REDUCES BEINGS TO STANDING DISPOSABLE RESERVE - SPANOS EXPLAINS:</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[William V. Spanos, __America’s Shadow: Anatomy of Empire__, 2000, pp. 10-11]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="underline">Metaphysics is thus a circular mode of inquiry …</span>and Foucault, "docile and useful body."</span>//</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">IMPERIALISM IS NO LONGER JUST A WAY THAT STATES INTERACT BUT A WAY OF THINKING, BEING AND //DEBATING// IN THE WORLD – WE REFUSE TO RESPOND TO OUR ANXIETY WITH AN ATTEMPT TO PRESENCE THE RESOLUTION BY BREAKING IT DOWN, STAKING OUT ITS BOUNDARIES IN A WAY THAT TREATS BEINGS AS MANAGEABLE AND EXPLOITABLE. WE ALSO REFUSE TO ABIDE BY DEBATE MANDATES THAT REQUIRE US TO TRADE OUR UNIQUE AGENCY AS YOUTH AND AND STUDENTS NOW FOR SOME IMAGINED FUTURE WORLD AS POLICY-MAKERS. AS HENRY GIROUX ARGUES, WE HAVE UNIQUE POWER AS STUDENTS:</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="SmallTextF4"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Henry A. Giroux, "Channel surfing: racism, the media and the destruction of today's youth." 1998)</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span class="SmallTextF4"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">But in spite of such social and economic differences between generations, … </span></span><span class="ReadingTextF6">**its responsibilities to the present and its vision of the future.**</span>//</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">FROM OUR LOCATION AS ACADEMIC INTELLECTUALS AND DEBATERS RESISTING EXCEPTIONALIST OCCUPATION OF THE PLANET - WE MUST RECONSTELLATE THE HISTORY OF THE VIETNAM WAR INTO THE PRESENT DEBATE TOPIC ABOUT MILITARY PRESENCE ABROAD. ONLY SUCH A RETHINKING CAN INTERRUPT THE AMERICAN DRIVE TO OCCUPY THE PLANET. SPANOS CONTINUES HIS 2008 ESSAY</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[william v spanos, __American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam__, pp. 249-254]</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span class="underline">Let me now return to </span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: Garamond; line-height: 11px;">the content of this book</span></span><span class="CharacterStyle2"> … </span><span class="underline">… </span><span class="cardChar"><span style="font-family: Garamond;">and to the forwarding warfare that is endemic to it.</span></span>//</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="cardChar">**<span style="font-family: Garamond;">VOTE AFF REJECTS THE METAPHYSICAL DRIVE THAT RUTHLESSLY ACCOMMODATES OR DESTROYS DIFFERENCE WITH BANISHMENT. VOTE AFF TO THINK THE NOTHING POSITIVELY.</span>**</span></span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.4em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Negative**</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.3em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">**Spanos 1NC**</span>== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">THE AMERICAN CENTURY HAS COME TO AN END, AND WITH IT ENDS THE UNIPOLAR DOMINATION OF THE PLANET THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS CRUSADED FOR SINCE THE END OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR. THE AFFIRMATIVE, IN POSITING LIBERAL CAPITALIST DEMOCRACY AS THE LAST AND ONLY OPTION FOR “CIVILiZED” INDIVIDUALS TO RESIDE IN, CONSTRUCTS THE WORLD IN A WAY THAT JUSTIFIES IMPERIAL DOMINATION. THE FALL OF THE AMERICAN EMPIRE IS IMMENENT. WILLIAM V. SPANOS CALLS OUR CURRENT SOCIOPOLITICAL OCCASION THE INTERREGNUM- THE TIME BETWEEN THE RISE AND FALL OF EMPIRES. THE AFFIRMATIVE MERELY ATTEMPTS TO RESCUE IMPERIALISM FROM THE THROES OF DEATH IT’S CURRENTLY NEARING.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">SPANOS 2008 <span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[William V, Professor at Binghamton, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, SUNY Press 2008, 23-24]</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: #b3b3b3;">The urgency of the need to break the peace of the Pax Metaphysica </span></span><span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">…</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: #b3b3b3;">the "errant" one</span>, who is "always under way"</span> <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">(LP, </span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.1pt;">163)—"</span><span class="underline"><span style="background-color: #b3b3b3;">is" as such.</span></span></span>//</span>

<span style="font-weight: normal; margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">ALTHOUGH AN AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALIST ONTOLOGY CLAIMS TOTAL INVINCIBILITY, VIETNAM RUPTURED THE AMERICAN NATIONAL IDENTITY – AMERICA’S MISSION IN THE GLOBAL WILDERNESS SELF-DESTRUCTED AS WE OCCUPIED A WORLD THAT RESISTED SPONTANEOUS CONSENT TO THE “TRUTH” OF LIBERAL/CAPITALST DEMOCRACY – SPANOS DESCRIBES THE WAY FORGETTING BEING HAS LED US TO A POINT WHERE AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALISM WILL DESTROY THE PLANET</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0px; padding: 0px;">**SPANOS 2008**<span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [William V, Professor at Binghamton, American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam, SUNY Press 2008,]</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this book I contend that</span></span> <span class="underline"><span style="background-color: #b3b3b3;">… rethinking the very idea of America.</span></span></span>//</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0px; padding: 0px;">THE AFFIRMATIVE AS WELL AS THE RESOLUTION AT LARGE CALL FOR A GLORIFICATION OF U.S. ACTION IN THE FACE OF UNENDING ATROCITY. THIS GLORIFICATION COMES IN THE RHETORICAL FORM AS A JEREMIAD. JUST AS THE PURITANS RECORDED THEIR GRACIOUS AND BENEVOLENT TREATMENT OF NATIVE PEOPLES ONLY TO JUSTIFY ANY ATROCITY TOWARDS THOSE WHO RESIST THE ENLIGHTENMENT OF THE WEST, THE UNITED STATES WILL USE THE PLAN AS JUSTIFICATION FOR FURTHER COLONIAL GAIN.</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0px; padding: 0px;">**SPANOS 2008** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[William V, Professor at Binghamton, __American Exceptionalism in the Age of Globalization: The Specter of Vietnam__, SUNY Press 2008, 207-209]</span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span style="margin: 0in;"><span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Daniel Webster's Bunker Hill orations are … </span></span>of what the pioneers of the Battle of Bunker Hill accomplished.</span>//</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0px; padding: 0px;">OUR ALTERNATIVE IS TO RECONSTELLATE VIETNAM INTO THE PRESENT SOCIOPOLITICAL OCCASION – TO AFFIRM THE SPECTER OF VIETNAM AND THE NOTHING THAT HAUNTS THE ONTOLOGY OF THE AFFIRMATIVE, AMERICAN EXCEPTIONALISM AND UNITED STATES HEGEMONY. THIS RECONSTELLATION IS A REVERSAL OF STATUS QUO LOGIC WHICH ATTEMPTS TO RELEGATE OUR LOSS TO VIETNAMESE INSURGENTS TO A MERE BAD DREAM.</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="CiteChar">Spanos 2000 </span><span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, “ The Question of Philosophy and Poiesis in the Posthistorical Age: Thinking/ Imagining the Shadow of Metaphysics.” Found in boundary 2, Volume 27, Number 1, Spring 2000, pp. 151-174)</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">//<span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">What the presently</span></span> __privileged__ <span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">… from their recuperative teleological historical narratives.</span></span>//</span>

==<span style="font-size: 1.3em; margin: 0px; padding: 5px 0px 0px;">****Van Gogh 1NC****</span>== 
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> </span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">We begin with a mirror…but not just any mirror. This mirror does not reflect things as they appear at first glance, but reflects things as they are. Much like Freud’s reflection in the mirrored glass of a train car, the image is not one of beauty and virility but instead one of decline, decay, and ultimately violence. Like Freud the affirmative will be tricked by the eye…they will not see themselves in the mirror but rather be disgusted by the images that stare them in the face. Rational society is built upon this fundamental misapprehension: the denial of the dark underbelly of our existence. We turn away from polite society in an attempt to see humanity and our politics for what they are…we turn to Vincent Van Gogh in an attempt not to resist the darkness present just under the surface of reality, but rather to plunge into it. It is this destructive moment of chaos that certifies our mortality and turns to a life stripped from all utopianism and finds consolation in it…even in our madness, our violence, our joy, and ultimately our death. </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bataille in 1987</span></span> (Georges, //Visions of Excess: Selected Essays 1927-1939.// Translated by Alan Stoekl. Pg. 61-72)
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Annales medicao-… still alive in a mortar. </span></span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">And, our project of sacrificial doubling marks the boundary where the coherence of political criticism breaks down. We confront rational existence with its opposite in the form of avant-garde literature in order to enact a sacrificial death of the 1AC. This death should not be viewed as an execution but rather as a self-mutilation. This process of auto-mutilation or self-destruction creates in its wake a subversiveness that denies the will to positivist utopianism present in the 1AC placing us in the center of a struggle between productive political action and the inescapable negativity that prefigures all of our associations with the world. You can’t learn this shit in school…only debate provides us with the space to deny the law of the land by reading the very texts that our law makers would have burned…</span>
<span class="tagChar">Stoekl in 1986</span> <span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alan, Politics, Writing, and Mutilation: The Cases of Bataille, Blanchot, Roussel, Leiris, and Ponge. Pg. xi-xix)</span></span>
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">It has become</span> a <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">commonplace</span> of criticism <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">... be inescapable as well.)</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">This process of struggle and continual sacrifice denies the statement of a political system that sees itself as morally superior in any way. The denial of the double nature of our existence, of the inherent negativity present in all things forces the affirmative to suture over the wounds created by our auto-mutilation proposing a position that is violently innocent. This process of moral superiority and denial of negativity leads to fascism. Only the process of continual auto-destruction staves off this fate.</span>
<span class="tagChar">Stoekl in 1986</span> <span class="SmallTextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Alan, Politics, Writing, and Mutilation: The Cases of Bataille, Blanchot, Roussel, Leiris, and Ponge. Pg. 130-1)</span></span>
We have examined t... <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">and out of the text.</span>
<span style="font-weight: normal;">Finally, we return to Bataille. Van Gogh is not just some Dutch painter who cut off his ear, but rather a person who reached the boiling point where the proposed stability of the world explodes rousing us from sleep putting us into contact with the very chaos that makes life worth living. </span>
<span class="tagChar">Bataille and Michelson in 86</span> (Van Gogh as Prometheus Author(s): Georges and Annette Source: October, Vol. 36, Georges Bataille: Writings on Laughter, Sacrifice, Nietzsche, Un- Knowing (Spring, 19), pp. 58-60 Published by: The MIT Press Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/778550)
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% lime;">Vincent Van Gogh belongs ... and only thereby to power.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]</span>