<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">I can't figure out how to use the new wiki. Ignore the poor formatting.</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">September-October</span>= 
==Affirmative== 
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Stock AC
(Warner Robins)

V - morality
C - respecting the right to life

C1 - Deterrence
</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">The current geopolitical setting makes conventional war unlikely with or without nuclear weapons</span>**</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Mandelbaum, Michael. American Foreign Policy Professor in the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. “Is Major War Obsolete?” 25 February 1999. Council on Foreign Relations Great Debate Series. </span>[[http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:drUrjWgOsOEJ:www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/+%22So+if+I+am+right,+then+what+has+been+the+motor%22+%22slowly,+haltingly+but+increasingly,+like+that%22&hl=en&gl=us&strip=1|**http://www.ciaonet.org/conf/cfr10/**]]

== == 
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">**However, nuclear weapons do not help to deter conflict**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wolf, Barry. “When the Weak Attack the Strong: Failures of Deterrence.” Sponsored by the US Army, Contract No. MDA903-86-C-0059. RAND Corporation. 1991. </span>[[http://www.rand.org/pubs/notes/N3261/N3261.pdf|**http://www.rand.org/pubs/notes/N3261/N3261.pdf**]]

**the logic behind deterrence is naively optimistic**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Krieger, David. President of Nuclear Age Peace foundation, Still Loving the Bomb After All These Years, 2009, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, </span>[[http://wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger|**http://wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger**]]

**Empirics confirm that nukes don’t deter**
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Geller, Daniel S. Professor and Department Chair of Political Science at Wayne State University. “Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation.” //The Journal of Conflict Resolution//, Vol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990), pp. 291-310.</span>[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/174196|**http://www.jstor.org/stable/174196**]]</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black;">war is actually //more// likely with nukes due to their short delivery time </span>**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donaldson, Thomas. The Mark O. Winkelman Professor in Ethics and Law at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. “Nuclear Deterrence and Self-Defense.” __Ethics__. Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence. The University of Chicago Press. April 1985. pp. 537-548. </span>[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381036|**http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381036**]]

**<span style="color: black;">nuclear deterrence even increases the chance of conventional war </span>**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Jervis, Robert. (The Adlai E. Stevenson Professor of International Politics at Columbia University. “Theories of War in an Era of Leading-Power Peace. The American Political Science Review, Vol. 96, No. 1 (March 2002) pp. 1-14. American Political Science Association. </span>[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/3117806|**http://www.jstor.org/stable/3117806**]]

**<span style="color: black;">Empirical examples </span>**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Whitmore, Donald. President, Third Millennium Foundation. “Revisiting Nuclear Deterrence Theory.” 1 March 1998. </span>[[http://abolishnukes.com/short_essays/deterrence_theory_whitmore.html|**http://abolishnukes.com/short_essays/deterrence_theory_whitmore.html**]]

**<span style="color: black;">C2 - Unintended Conflict</span>**</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black;">New nuclear states lack the stability and experience to avoid nuclear conflict </span>**</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Evans, Gareth (President of the International Crisis Group) and Yoriko Kawaguchi (Former Foreign Minister of Japan). Co-chairs of the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament. “Eliminating Nuclear Threats: A Practical Agenda for Global Policymakers.” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament Report. 15 December 2009. </span>[[http://www.icnnd.org/reference/reports/ent/pdf/ICNND_Report-EliminatingNuclearThreats.pdf|**http://www.icnnd.org/reference/reports/ent/pdf/ICNND_Report-EliminatingNuclearThreats.pdf**]]

**<span style="color: black;">nuclear terrorism risks escalation to nuclear war </span>**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Speice, Patrick J. JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary “NEGLIGENCE AND NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION: ELIMINATING THE CURRENT LIABILITY BARRIER TO BILATERAL U.S.-RUSSIAN NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,” __William & Mary Law Review__, February 2006.</span>

**<span style="color: black;">Even a regional nuclear war would kill over 1 billion</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Loretz, John. Executive Director, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War (IPPNW); Ira Helfand, North American Director, IPPNW; Steven Starr, Lobbyist for Physicians for Global Survival and Senior Scientist for Physicians for Social Responsibility; John Hallam, lobbyist, People for Nuclear Disarmament. "Climate and Health Effects of Regional Nuclear War." Nuclear Darkness. N.p., 29 Apr. 2008. Web. 6 Sept. 2010. </span>[[http://www.nucleardarkness.org/warconsequences/climateandhealtheffects/|**http://www.nucleardarkness.org/warconsequences/climateandhealtheffects/**]]
</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Deontology AC
(Quarterfinals @ Saint James)
(There are multiple arguments in this case not supported by cards)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black;">All reasons must assume that humanity is valuable as an end in itself</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Christine M. Korsgaard, “The Sources of Normativity,” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values, Delivered at Clare Hall, Cambridge University, November 16-17 1992</span>
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">V – Humanity</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt;">It is impossible for consequentialism to respect humanity as an end</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">Hill, Thomas. Jr. “Self-regarding suicide: A modified Kantian view” in __Autonomy and Self-Respect__. Cambridge University Press. 1991. Pg. 102-103.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">the permissibility of intentions as universal maxims determines morality </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Christine M. Korsgaard, “The Sources of Normativity,” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values, Delivered at Clare Hall, Cambridge University, November 16-17 1992</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">And </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Kamm, F.M. “Inviolability.” __Midwest Studies in Philosophy__. </span>[[http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/120147213/issue|**Volume 20 Issue 1**]]<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 8pt;">, Pages 165 – 175. 1995. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/120147219/abstract]]</span>
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">C - avoiding moral rules that do not respect humanity</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 4.5pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">C1 - possessing nuclear weapons requires that states consider the killing of innocent civilians permissible

the death of innocents is inevitable when nuclear weapons are used </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Donaldson, Thomas. The Mark O. Winkelman Professor in Ethics and Law at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. “Nuclear Deterrence and Self-Defense.” __Ethics__. Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence. The University of Chicago Press. April 1985. pp. 537-548. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381036]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">nuclear deterrence treats innocents as hostages </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Steven Lee. professor of philosophy at Hobart & William Smith Colleges. “Morality, prudence, and nuclear weapons” Cambridge University Press, 1993. pg. 45

Hostages are treated as mere means
Steven Lee. professor of philosophy at Hobart & William Smith Colleges. “Morality, prudence, and nuclear weapons” Cambridge University Press, 1993. pg. 45</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">even a conditional intent to use nuclear weapons only in retaliation treats civilians as means </span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Steven Lee. professor of philosophy at Hobart & William Smith Colleges. “Morality, prudence, and nuclear weapons” Cambridge University Press, 1993. pg. 45</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">coercion necessarily entails using humans as a mere means to an end </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Korsgaard, Christine. 1993. “The reasons we can share: An attack on the distinction between agent-relative and agent-neutral values.” Cambridge University Press. Previously published in Social Philosophy and Policy 10, no. 1: 24-51. [[http://dash.harvard.edu/bitstream/handle/1/3196321/Korsgaard_ReasonsShare.pdf?sequence=2]]

</span>
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">Util AC
(Wake Forest, Saint James, Bronx)
(Not all cards were read every round)</span>

<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt;">__<span style="color: black;">“Ought” expresses desirability </span>__</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">American Heritage Dictionary. [[http://www.wordnik.com/words/ought]]</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">any concept of desirability must first place value on humanity </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">Christine M. Korsgaard, “The Sources of Normativity,” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values, Delivered at Clare Hall, Cambridge University, November 16-17 1992</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">V – Humanity</span>

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">This necessarily commits actors to a consequentialist framework </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Cummiskey, David. Associate professor of philosophy at the University of Chicago. “Kantian Consequentiaism.” Ethics 100 (April 1990), University of Chicago. </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>

C – Maximizing the protection of rights</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">no other criterion respects all people</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Cummiskey, David. Associate professor of philosophy at the University of Chicago. “Kantian Consequentiaism.” Ethics 100 (April 1990), University of Chicago. </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381810]]</span>

C1 – International Stability</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">Nuclear weapons states are like Lay’s potato chips. You can’t have just one. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">Mueller, Harald. Executive Director, Head of Research Department at the Peace Research Institute of Frankfurt. “The Future of Nuclear Weapons in an Interdependent World.” The Washington Quarterly. Spring 2008. [[http://www.twq.com/08spring/docs/08spring_muller.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">proliferation destroys international stability making both intentional and accidental conflict likely </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">Evans, Gareth (President of the International Crisis Group) and Yoriko Kawaguchi (Former Foreign Minister of Japan). Co-chairs of the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament. “Eliminating Nuclear Threats: A Practical Agenda for Global Policymakers.” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament Report. 15 December 2009. [[http://www.icnnd.org/reference/reports/ent/pdf/ICNND_Report-EliminatingNuclearThreats.pdf]]</span>

<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">deterrence fails because pre-emptive war is an inevitable bias of the military – 5 warrants
**__Sagan__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Co-director of CISAC and Co- director of Stanford's Center for International Security and Cooperation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">**,** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">19</span>**__95__** <span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">(Scott, __The Spread of Nuclear Weapons, A debate__, SP__)__ </span></span>
</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> </span>
nuclear weapons do not deter conflict


<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wolf, Barry. “When the Weak Attack the Strong: Failures of Deterrence.” Sponsored by the US Army, Contract No. MDA903-86-C-0059. RAND Corporation. 1991. </span>[[http://www.rand.org/pubs/notes/N3261/N3261.pdf**|**http://www.rand.org/pubs/notes/N3261/N3261.pdf**]]the logic behind deterrence is naively optimistic
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Krieger, David. President of Nuclear Age Peace foundation, Still Loving the Bomb After All These Years, 2009, Nuclear Age Peace Foundation, </span>[[http://wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger|**http://wagingpeace.org/articles/2009/09/04_krieger_newsweek_response.php?krieger**]]

Empirics confirm that nukes don’t deter
<span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Geller, Daniel S. Professor and Department Chair of Political Science at Wayne State University. “Nuclear Weapons, Deterrence, and Crisis Escalation.” //The Journal of Conflict Resolution//, Vol. 34, No. 2 (Jun., 1990), pp. 291-310.</span>[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/174196|**http://www.jstor.org/stable/174196**]]

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">war is actually //more// likely with nukes due to their short delivery time </span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Donaldson, Thomas. The Mark O. Winkelman Professor in Ethics and Law at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. “Nuclear Deterrence and Self-Defense.” __Ethics__. Vol. 95, No. 3, Special Issue: Symposium on Ethics and Nuclear Deterrence. The University of Chicago Press. April 1985. pp. 537-548. </span>[[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381036|**http://www.jstor.org/stable/2381036**]]</span>

<span style="color: black; margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">nuclear deterrence even increases the chance of conventional war </span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt;"><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt;">Whitmore, Donald. President, Third Millennium Foundation. “Revisiting Nuclear Deterrence Theory.” 1 March 1998. </span>[[http://abolishnukes.com/short_essays/deterrence_theory_whitmore.html|**http://abolishnukes.com/short_essays/deterrence_theory_whitmore.html**]]</span></span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">C2 – Kashmir conflict
</span>

</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">
Preemptive war </span></span><span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">
<span style="color: black; font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Ball, Desmond. Professor at the Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at the Australian National University. “The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ‘Armageddon Scenarios’ in the 21st Century.” Working Paper no. 401. Strategic and Defence Studies Centre at the Australian National University. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">[[http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Accidental war </span>
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kerr, </span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Paul K.</span> **__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">and</span>__** <span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Mary Beth </span>**__<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Nikitin</span>__**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">. Analyst in Nonproliferation in the Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division at the Congressional Research Service. “Pakistan’s Nuclear Weapons: Proliferation and Security Issues” Congressional Research Service. 7-5700. February 2010.
</span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">experts agree - all signs point to Kashmir as the most likely scenario for nuclear war </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Fai, Ghulam. Executive Director of the Kashmiri American Council, an interest group focused on foreign relations, humanitarian assistance, and politics. The Washington Times. 8 July 2001.
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">the deterrence logic of the Cold War doesn’t apply </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">National Resources Defense Council. “The Consequences of Nuclear Conflict between India and Pakistan.” 4 June 2002. </span>[[http://www.nrdc.org/nuclear/southasia.asp]]
</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-weight: normal;">nuclear war between India and Pakistan would kill over 1 billion people </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Loretz, John. Executive Director, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War (IPPNW); Ira Helfand, North American Director, IPPNW; Steven Starr, Lobbyist for Physicians for Global Survival and Senior Scientist for Physicians for Social Responsibility; John Hallam, lobbyist, People for Nuclear Disarmament. "Climate and Health Effects of Regional Nuclear War." Nuclear Darkness. N.p., 29 Apr. 2008. Web. 6 Sept. 2010. </span>[[http://www.nucleardarkness.org/warconsequences/climateandhealtheffects/]]
</span>
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">nuclear disarmament would ease tension and resolve conflict in the region </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">Khan, Feroz Hassan. Former director of Arms Control and Disarmament Affairs in Pakistan’s Strategic Plans Division. “PAKISTAN’S PERSPECTIVE ON THE GLOBAL ELIMINATION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS.” __Pakistan and Israel__. The Henry L. Stimson Center. April 2009. Pg. 28. <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">[[http://www.stimson.org/nuke/pdf/PAKISTAN_ISRAEL.pdf]]
</span>
</span>
<span style="display: block; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">C3 – Russian Miscalculation

There are multiple scenarios for accidental launch. All could result in the launch of hundreds of nukes. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Blair, Bruce, et al. <span style="color: black;">“TEN STEPS THE NEXT PRESIDENT SHOULD TAKE TO TRANSFORM U.S. NUCLEAR WEAPONS POLICY.” February 2008. Federation of American Scientists, National Resources Defense Council, and Union of Concerned Scientists. </span>[[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/toward-true-security.pdf]]
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Accidental launch could cause extinction in less than 30 minutes</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;">(Mintz, Morton. F</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;">ormer chair of the Fund for Investigative Journalism and a former //Washington Post// reporter.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;"> “Two Minutes to Launch.” 26 February 2001. The American Prospect. </span><span style="color: blue; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=two_minutes_to_launch]]</span></span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; tab-stops: 265.5pt; tabstops: 265.5pt;">Russian miscalculation is likely </span>
<span style="display: block; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">Blair, Bruce, et al. <span style="color: black;">“TEN STEPS THE NEXT PRESIDENT SHOULD TAKE TO TRANSFORM U.S. NUCLEAR WEAPONS POLICY.” February 2008. Federation of American Scientists, National Resources Defense Council, and Union of Concerned Scientists. </span>[[http://www.ucsusa.org/assets/documents/nwgs/toward-true-security.pdf]]

</span>

==Negative== 


<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Verification NC</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Wake Forest)
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">S – Expectation of cooperation </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">C - __states cannot verify whether other states possess nuclear weapons__ </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">verification measures for nuclear disarmament are inadequate </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Ford, Christopher. Senior fellow of the Hudson Institute and Director of the Center for Technology and Global Security. “Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?” __The New Atlantis, Journal of Technology and Society.__ Spring 2010. [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/why-not-nuclear-disarmament]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">measures for verification would have to be impossibly high for the costs of cheating to outweigh the benefits </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Ford, Christopher. Senior fellow of the Hudson Institute and Director of the Center for Technology and Global Security. “Why Not Nuclear Disarmament?” The New Atlantis, Journal of Technology and Society. Spring 2010. [[http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/why-not-nuclear-disarmament]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Self Defense NC</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Saint James, Warner Robins, Bronx R4)
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">V - Morality </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">moral prohibitions on action can only come from self-imposed laws of the will</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Christine M. Korsgaard, “The Sources of Normativity,” The Tanner Lectures on Human Values, Delivered at Clare Hall, Cambridge University, November 16-17 1992
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">self defense is moral since the decision to kill was made by the aggressor </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Ryan, Cheyney C. Professor of Philosophy @ the University of Oregon specializing in conflict resolution. “Self-defense, Pacifism, and the Possibility of Killing.” Ethics. Vol. 93, No. 3. The University of Chicago Press. April 1983. Pp. 508-524. [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2380628]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">C – respecting the right to self defense </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">C1 - states may possess nuclear weapons to defend themselves from larger states </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Craig, Campbell. Professor of international relations at the university of Southampton. 2009. “American power preponderance and the nuclear revolution,” Review of International Studies, 35, 27-44</span>


</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Realism NC</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Warner Robins, Bronx R2)
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">V – Optimal Foreign Policy </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Foreign policy is a zero-sum game </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Mearsheimer, John. R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science and Co-Director of International Relations Policy at the University of Chicago, and Former research fellow at the Brookings Institute. The Tragedy of Great Power Politics. 2001. [[http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/A0033x2.pdf]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">C – Maximizing Security </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">states must protect themselves </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Mearsheimer, John. R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science and Co-Director of International Relations Policy at the University of Chicago, and Former research fellow at the Brookings Institute. The Tragedy of Great Power Politics. 2001. [[http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/A0033x2.pdf]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">C1 – Possessing nuclear weapons maximizes security </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Mearsheimer, John. R. Wendell Harrison Distinguished Service Professor of Political Science and Co-Director of International Relations Policy at the University of Chicago, and Former research fellow at the Brookings Institute. The Tragedy of Great Power Politics. 2001. [[http://mearsheimer.uchicago.edu/pdfs/A0033x2.pdf]]

</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Bio-weapons DA</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Wake Forest)
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">nuclear weapons have empirical success at deterring chemical-biological attacks</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">Tertrais<span style="color: black;">, Bruno (senior research fellow at the Fondation pour la Recherche Strategique in Paris, France, and is a member of the editorial board of The Washington Quarterly.) “The Illogic of Zero” The Washington Quarterly, April 2010. 33:2 pp. 125 138 </span>[[http://www.twq.com/10april/docs/10apr_Tertrais.pdf]]

</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">use of bio-weapons risks extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Steinbruner, John D. Professor of Public Policy at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland. Foreign Policy. "Biological weapons: a plague upon all houses." 22 December 1997. JStor.



</span>
</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Bio-weapons DA 2.0 </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Bronx R4)

possessing nuclear weapons deters biological weapons use
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; page-break-after: avoid; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Payne, Dr. Keith B. President, National Institute for Public Policy, and Faculty, National Security Studies Program, Georgetown University.”Nuclear Weapons: Ours and Theirs.” National Institute for Public Policy. 7 May 1999. Presented to the CATO Institute Policy Forum.
[[http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Archives/Publication%20Archive%20PDF/ours%20and%20theirs.pdf]]
</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">countries are more likely to turn to bio-weapons as a deterrent in the absence of nuclear weapons
</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Zilinskas, Raymond A. Former Clinical Microbiologist and Director of the Chemical-Biological Weapons Nonproliferation Program. //Biological Warfare: Modern Offense and Defense//. Lynne Rienner Publishers, Boulder Colorado, 2000. ISBN: 1-55587-761-3.
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Bio-weapons are comparatively more dangerous than nuclear weapons and risk extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Steinbruner, John D. Professor of Public Policy at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland. Foreign Policy. "Biological weapons: a plague upon all houses." 22 December 1997. JStor.


This turns accidental launch. Bio-weapons are almost impossble to control making accidental use more likely.

Ochs, Richard. Chemical Weapons Working Group. “Biological Weapons must be Abolished Immediately.” 9 June 2002. [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]



</span>
</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">War DA </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Wake Forest, St. James)

</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Possession of nuclear weapons significantly reduces the likelihood of conflict </span>**
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Asal, Victor, Professor of political science at New York University, and Kyle Beardsley, Professor of political science at Emory. </span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Journal of Peace Research,</span>//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> Vol. 44, No. 2, 2007. “Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior.” Online.
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">The conventional wars prevented by nuclear weapons would be comparatively worse than nuclear wars caused </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Bueno de Mesquita, Bruce & Riker, William H. “An Assessment of the Merits of Selective Nuclear Proliferation.” Department of political science @ the University of Rochester. The Journal of Conflict Resolution. Vol. 26, No. 2, June 1982.



</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Israel DA </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Bronx R5)
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Anti-Israeli terrorist groups are deterred from large scale attacks by the threat of retaliation.</span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Freilich, Chuck. Former Deputy National Security Adviser in Israel and currently a Senior Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School and Adjunct Professor at New York University. “The Armageddon Scenario: Israel and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism”. The Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies AND the International Advisory Board, April 2010. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.biu.ac.il/SOC/besa/MSPS84.pdf]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Nuclear weapons are Israel’s key defense. Disarming them would destroy deterrence. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Beres, Louis René. Professor of political science at Purdue University, closely involved with Israeli security. “PRESERVING ISRAEL AT THE ELEVENTH HOUR: //NUCLEAR DETERRENCE, ENEMY RATIONALITY, AND ‘PALISTINE’//.” 26 August 2010. The Jewish Press. [[http://www.jewishpress.com/pageroute.do/45032/]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Nuke terror would cause middle eastern proliferation and nuclear war </span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Freilich, Chuck. Former Deputy National Security Adviser in Israel and currently a Senior Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School and Adjunct Professor at New York University. “The Armageddon Scenario: Israel and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism”. The Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies AND the International Advisory Board, April 2010. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.biu.ac.il/SOC/besa/MSPS84.pdf]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Weighing </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This outweighs other threats on probability – the conditions of the Middle East make nuclear terror there the most likely threat </span>**


<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Freilich, Chuck. Former Deputy National Security Adviser in Israel and currently a Senior Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School and Adjunct Professor at New York University. “The Armageddon Scenario: Israel and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism”. The Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies AND the International Advisory Board, April 2010.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.biu.ac.il/SOC/besa/MSPS84.pdf]]


</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This outweighs on timeframe – the impact will happen by 2013 </span>**

<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Freilich, Chuck. Former Deputy National Security Adviser in Israel and currently a Senior Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School and Adjunct Professor at New York University. “The Armageddon Scenario: Israel and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism”. The Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies AND the International Advisory Board, April 2010. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.biu.ac.il/SOC/besa/MSPS84.pdf]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">On Case </span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Terrorists can get nukes without the help of a state </span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">﻿</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">﻿</span>
<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Freilich, Chuck. Former Deputy National Security Adviser in Israel and currently a Senior Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School and Adjunct Professor at New York University. “The Armageddon Scenario: Israel and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism”. The Begin-Sadat Center for Strategic Studies AND the International Advisory Board, April 2010. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.biu.ac.il/SOC/besa/MSPS84.pdf]]


</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Japan Rearm DA</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Unbroken)

</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Japan won’t rearm now because of America’s nuclear deterrent </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Brookes, Peter. Senior Fellow for national security affairs at the Heritage Foundation. “Why the world still needs America’s military might.” December 2008. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.1927/pub_detail.asp]]
</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">(Alternative/additional Evidence) </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[1]</span></span></span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> Llewen Hughes. Doctoral candidate in the Department of Political Science at MIT. 2007 “<span style="color: black;">Why Japan Will Not Go Nuclear (Yet) International and Domestic Constraints on the Nuclearization of Japan,” //International Security// Vol. 31 No. 4 p.74-77. </span>[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/international_security/v031/31.4hughes.html]]

</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Japanese rearm leads to an Asian arms race**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Emma <span class="cite">**Chanlett-Avery**</span>, Specialist in Asian Affairs, <span class="cite">**and**</span> Mary Beth <span class="cite">**Nikitin**</span>, Analyst in Nonproliferation. Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future.” February 29, <span class="cite">**2009**</span>. [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]
</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">(Alternative/additional Evidence) </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Matthews 04** </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Council on Foreign Relations, 2004, Foreign Affairs, Ebsco)

</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Asian arms race leads to nuclear war </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Cimbala, Steven. Professor of Political Science @ Penn State. “Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century.” 2010. P. 117-8. </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">(Alternative/additional Evidence) </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Cimbala, Steven. Professor of Political Science @ Penn State. “</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">.” </span>**//Comparative Strategy//, 1521-0448, Volume 27, Issue 2, 2008, Pages 113 – 132.

</span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Weighing**

**This outweighs other impacts on probability. It’s the most dangerous nuclear scenario.**
</span>
</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Feffer, John. Co-director of Foreign Policy at the Institute for Policy Studies and a Japan Focus associate. “Hidden Asia Pacific Arms Race. Six Countries Talk Peace While Preparing for War.” 19 March 2008. [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-John-Feffer/2704]]

</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">And, there’s a short time frame. Japan rearm would happen within months </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Bennett <span class="cite">**Richardson**</span>. Correspondent for CSM. “Nuclear question still nags at Japan.” 6 November <span class="cite">**2006**</span>. Christian Science Monitor. [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1106/p06s01-woap.html]]

</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This also link turns the AC. Japanese rearmament leads to global proliferation </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Emma <span class="cite">**Chanlett-Avery**</span>, Specialist in Asian Affairs, <span class="cite">**and**</span> Mary Beth <span class="cite">**Nikitin**</span>, Analyst in Nonproliferation. Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future.” February 29, <span class="cite">**2009**</span>. [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]


</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Japan Rearm DA 2 (Tactical Nukes)</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Unbroken)

</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Japan won’t rearm now because of America’s nuclear deterrent </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Brookes, Peter. Senior Fellow for national security affairs at the Heritage Foundation. “Why the world still needs America’s military might.” December 2008. </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.1927/pub_detail.asp]]

</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">**//<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">But, Japan doesn’t want any US concessions in nuclear policy </span>//**

<span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"><span class="MsoFootnoteReference"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">[1]</span></span></span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> Llewen Hughes. Doctoral candidate in the Department of Political Science at MIT. 2007 “<span style="color: black;">Why Japan Will Not Go Nuclear (Yet) International and Domestic Constraints on the Nuclearization of Japan,” //International Security// Vol. 31 No. 4 p.74-77. </span>[[http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/international_security/v031/31.4hughes.html]]

</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">US tactical nukes are a key sign of security commitment. Removal would cause Japanese rearmament. </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Yost, David. Professor at the Naval Postgraduate School. “Assurance and US extended deterrence in NATO.” International Affairs 85: 4 (2009) 755–780.
</span>
**<span class="cite">//Laird 09// //<span style="text-decoration: none; textunderline: none;">confirms</span>//</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Laird, Burgess. National security analyst. “A Guide to the Challenges Facing Obama’s Nuclear Abolition Agenda.” Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs. 21 July 2009. [[http://www.cceia.org/resources/articles_papers_reports/0025.html]]

</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**Japanese rearm leads to an Asian arms race**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Emma <span class="cite">**Chanlett-Avery**</span>, Specialist in Asian Affairs, <span class="cite">**and**</span> Mary Beth <span class="cite">**Nikitin**</span>, Analyst in Nonproliferation. Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future.” February 29, <span class="cite">**2009**</span>. [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]
</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">(Alternative/additional Evidence) </span>**
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Matthews 04** </span></span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(Council on Foreign Relations, 2004, Foreign Affairs, Ebsco)

</span>
**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Asian arms race leads to nuclear war </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Cimbala, Steven. Professor of Political Science @ Penn State. “Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century.” 2010. P. 117-8. </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10pt;">(Alternative/additional Evidence) </span>**
**<span style="color: black; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Cimbala, Steven. Professor of Political Science @ Penn State. “</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Anticipatory Attacks: Nuclear Crisis Stability in Future Asia**<span style="color: black; font-weight: normal;">.” </span>**//Comparative Strategy//, 1521-0448, Volume 27, Issue 2, 2008, Pages 113 – 132.


</span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Weighing**

**This outweighs other impacts on probability. It’s the most dangerous nuclear scenario.**
</span>
</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Feffer, John. Co-director of Foreign Policy at the Institute for Policy Studies and a Japan Focus associate. “Hidden Asia Pacific Arms Race. Six Countries Talk Peace While Preparing for War.” 19 March 2008. [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-John-Feffer/2704]]

</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">And, there’s a short time frame. Japan rearm would happen within months </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Bennett <span class="cite">**Richardson**</span>. Correspondent for CSM. “Nuclear question still nags at Japan.” 6 November <span class="cite">**2006**</span>. Christian Science Monitor. [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1106/p06s01-woap.html]]

</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">This also link turns the AC. Japanese rearmament leads to global proliferation </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Emma <span class="cite">**Chanlett-Avery**</span>, Specialist in Asian Affairs, <span class="cite">**and**</span> Mary Beth <span class="cite">**Nikitin**</span>, Analyst in Nonproliferation. Congressional Research Service, “Japan’s Nuclear Future.” February 29, <span class="cite">**2009**</span>. [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RL34487.pdf]]

</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">TNW DA</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Unbroken)
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">There’s no proliferation now due to the US nuclear umbrella </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 2pt;"><span style="color: black; font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">Tepperman, Jonathan. Newsweek International’s first Assistant Managing Editor, now Deputy Editor, he supervises all coverage of Europe, Africa, and the Middle East; also a former UN speechwriter and former Deputy Managing Editor of //Foreign Affairs// magazine. “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb.” 29 August 2009. Newsweek. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html|**http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html**]]
</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Removing tactical nukes signals a lack of US security commitment, igniting proliferation</span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 2pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Laird, Burgess. National security analyst. “A Guide to the Challenges Facing Obama’s Nuclear Abolition Agenda.” Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs. 21 July 2009. [[http://www.cceia.org/resources/articles_papers_reports/0025.html]]
</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[This turns the case.] Prolif majorly increases both intentional and accidental nuclear war </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 2pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Evans, Gareth (President of the International Crisis Group) and Yoriko Kawaguchi (Former Foreign Minister of Japan). Co-chairs of the International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament. “Eliminating Nuclear Threats: A Practical Agenda for Global Policymakers.” International Commission on Nuclear Non-proliferation and Disarmament Report. 15 December 2009. [[http://www.icnnd.org/reference/reports/ent/pdf/ICNND_Report-EliminatingNuclearThreats.pdf]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">NoKo DA </span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Unbroken)
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">the US is deterring North Korea now, but global uncertainty makes our credibility key </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Lt. Col. Lynne Hamilton-Jones, Col. Robert G. Louis, Col. Gary West, <span style="color: black;">WHY THE US MUST SHIFT ITS NORTH KOREA POLICY FROM DISARMAMENT TO DETERRENCE. National Defense University: National War College. 2003. </span>[[http://libweb.uoregon.edu/ec/e-asia/readb/n035605L.pdf]]</span><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;"> )

</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Pushing for a nuke-free world destroys US deterrence credibility with Korea </span>**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 2pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Gaffney, Frank. Founder and president of the Center for Security Policy. “A shrinking deterrent.” The Washington Times. 27 May 2009. [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2009/may/27/a-shrinking-deterrent/]]
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(Bio-wep Impact)</span>
</span><span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">North Korea relies on and would use biological weapons to achieve its objectives </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">International Crisis Group. “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs: Executive Summary.” 18 June 2009. [[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Bio-weapons are comparatively more dangerous than nuclear weapons and risk extinction </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Steinbruner, John D. Professor of Public Policy at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland and Director of the Center for International and Security Studies at Maryland. Foreign Policy. "Biological weapons: a plague upon all houses." 22 December 1997. JStor.

</span>
</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; margin: 0in 0in 2pt; text-align: justify;">(SK War Impact)</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Kim Jong Il wants reunification and would go to war to get it </span>**
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt; margin: 0in 0in 2pt; text-align: justify;">Stevens, Terry C., David J. Smith, Chuck Downs, Robert Dujarric. National Institute for Public Policy. “Deterring North Korea: U.S. Options.” 01 December 2003.

</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;">**//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">( ) US deterrence is the only reason Kim hasn’t attacked South Korea yet </span>//**
</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 2pt; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Stevens, Terry C., David J. Smith, Chuck Downs, Robert Dujarric. National Institute for Public Policy. “Deterring North Korea: U.S. Options.” 01 December 2003.
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">A conflict with Korea would kill millions in a short time frame and might involve WMD </span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Martin, David. CBS News. “What Would Happen if North Korea Attacked?” 16 December 2009. [[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2009/12/16/eveningnews/main5987983.shtml]]
</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Weighing </span>**</span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">**This outweighs on probability. North-East Asia is the most likely place for nuclear conflict**</span></span></span>
<span style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8pt;">Feffer, John. Co-director of Foreign Policy at the Institute for Policy Studies and a Japan Focus associate. “Hidden Asia Pacific Arms Race. Six Countries Talk Peace While Preparing for War.” 19 March 2008. [[http://www.japanfocus.org/-John-Feffer/2704]]

</span>
</span>November-December

==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]