[[toc]]
=Info= 

Aff Cites: Giancarlo Ghinatti — [[mailto:gggiancarlo1@aol.com|gggiancarlo1@aol.com]]
Neg Cites: Joseph Tahbaz — [[mailto:jat1793@gmail.com|jat1793@gmail.com]]


=Affirmative= 

==South Korea Aff== 

===1AC Glenbrooks=== 


[[#_GoBack]]**Plan: The Uni****ted States feder****al government should substantially phase out its military presence in the Republic of Korea.**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Contention 1 is Arms Sales</span>**

[[#_GoBack]]**South Korea is free-riding – defense spending is tiny**
**Bennett 10** (Bruce, Senior Policy Analyst – RAND Corporation, “S. Korea’s Military Capability ‘Inadequate’”, Chosun Ilbo, 1-29, http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2010/01/29/2010012900705.html) 

An American academic says South … Korea's catastrophic threats," he added. 

**Russia’s Economy is on the brink – but high tech exports will solve**
**Sharma 10/18** (Ruchir— managing Director, Head of global emerging markets equity team, Portfolio Manager, and Member of global tactical asset allocation investment committee at Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc. and columnist,”How Russia Lost Its Mojo”, Newsweek, International Edition, 10/18/10, Lexis) 
While economic growth in most … developed Russia needs a new model. 

**Empirically, US reduction in military presence triggers the ROK to expand and modernize their military**
**Feffer 09** (John, Co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Ploughshares into Swords: Economic Implications of South Korean Military Spending”, Korea Economic Institute, Academic Paper Series, 4(2), February, http://www.keia.org/Publications/AcademicPaperSeries/2009/APS-Feffer.pdf) 

To understand the dynamics of … response to U.S. global force transformation. 

**ROK-Russia arms negotiations on brink and Russia will push for arms exports to compensate for debt from South Korean loans**
**Sung-ki 10** (Jung, Staff Reporter, “Seoul Seeks to get Moscow’s Arms Technology”, The Korean Times, 2-09, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/06/113_60599.html) 

South Korea and Russia are … Murena-E hovercraft and seven Ka-32s. 

**Russian weapons sales to ROK are limited by US presence**
**Ahn 09** (Se Hyun, PhD, London School of Economics and Political Science; MA, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University is currently an assistant professor at the Department of International Relations in the University of Seoul, South Korea, and a former visiting research fellow at the Asia Research Center in the London School of Economics., “Understanding Russian-South Korean Arms Trade A Nontraditional Security Approach?”, Armed Forces & Security, 35(3), April, http://spafs.highwire.org/cgi/reprint/35/3/421) 

In the mid-1990s, the U.S. … on the South Korean government. 

**Russia will fill-in and sell to South Korea**
**Wimbush 7** (S. Enders, Senior Fellow and Director – Center for Future Security Strategies at the Hudson Institute, “A Parable: The U.S.–South Korea Security Relationship Breaks Down”, 9-10, http://www.nbr.org/downloads/pdfs/ PSA/USROK_Conf07_Wimbush.pdf) 

The Russians watched the worsening … South Korea’s leading defense supplier. 

**That’s key to the Russian economy**
**Ahn 9** (Se Hyun, PhD, London School of Economics and Political Science; MA, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University is currently an assistant professor at the Department of International Relations in the University of Seoul, South Korea, and a former visiting research fellow at the Asia Research Center in the London School of Economics., “Understanding Russian-South Korean Arms Trade A Nontraditional Security Approach?”, Armed Forces & Security, 35(3), April, http://spafs.highwire.org/cgi/reprint/35/3/421) 

From the Russian perspective, Russia's … orientation to a technology-driven strategy. 

**Russian economic decline causes nuclear war**
**Filger 9** (Sheldon, founder of Global Economic Crisis, The Huffington Post,, 5.10.9, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html ) 

In Russia, historically, economic health … just may be possible that U.S. 

**Plan alters defense investments and causes conventional modernization – deters inevitable Chinese aggression**
**Bandow 9** (Doug, Senior Fellow – Cato Institute and Robert A. Taft Fellow – American Conservative Defense Alliance, “A Tattered Umbrella”, National Interest, 6-16, http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=21606) 

South Korea’s foreign minister reports … dispute into an international crisis. 

**There’s not enough room in East Asia for both the United States and China – competition there will lead to war**
**Mearsheimer 05** (John—Professor of political science at the University of Chicago, “Better to Be Godzilla than Bambi”, Foreign Policy, January, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=2740) 

China cannot rise peacefully, and … Union during the Cold War. 

**Chinese Aggression Escalates and Goes Nuclear**
**Adams, 09** – Reporter for Global Post and Newsweek on China and Taiwan (3/31/09, Jonathon, Global Post, “the Dragon Sharpens Its Claws,”http://www.Globalpost.Com/Dispatch/China-and-Its-Neighbors/090331/the-Dragon-Sharpens-Its-Claws) 

TAIPEI — It's the Stuff of ... and the Rising Asian Giant. 

**Extinction**
**Cheong 2k** – East Asia Correspondent (Ching Cheong, the Straits Times, “No One Gains in War Over Taiwan,” 6-25-2000, Lexis-Nexis Universe) 

a Cross-Strait Conflict, Even at … Puts Sovereignty Above Everything Else. 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 110%;">Contention 2 is Accidental War</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The sinking of the South Korea’s ship makes conflict inevitable – retaliation will spark an escalatory war and failure to respond will only cause more North Korean provocations.</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">**Bandow, 10**</span> – senior fellow at the Cato Institute and former special assistant to Reagan (4/18/10, Doug, “Let the Koreans Take Care of the Koreas,” [[@http://www.huffingtonpost.com/doug-bandow/let-the-koreans-take-care_b_542141.html]],) 

It has been weeks since … to defend its own personnel. 

**Tensions are escalating drastically**
**Kim 11/3** (Sam--, “Koreas set to hold another round of family reunions amid tension ”, Yonhap News Agency, 11/03/10, http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/northkorea/2010/11/03/11/0401000000AEN20101103004700315F.HTML) 

SOKCHO, South Korea, Nov. 3 (Joint … War that ended in a truce. 

**The status quo is fundamentally different than the past – the chance of a major miscalculation and global escalation is possible now in five different ways**
**Sanger, 10** (5/28/10, David E. Sanger, NY Times, “In the Koreas, Five Possible Ways to War,” 
[[@http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/30/weekinreview/30sanger.html]]) 

USUALLY, there is a familiar cycle … North Korea found its customers. 

**The U.S. response to bolster deterrence will just increase provocations and make miscalculation more likely**
**Armstrong, 10** – Professor of history and director of the Center for Korean Research at Columbia University.. (Charles, 5/26/10, CNN, “The Korean War never ended” [[@http://www.cnn.com/2010/OPINION/05/24/armstrong.north.korea/index.html]]) 

On the other hand, there … War, not start it anew. 

**Also, North Korean aggression and nuclearization will cause intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war causes rapid cooling and ozone disruption, collapses the economy, and spills over to other hot spots**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10** – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,”http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf) 

The international community is increasingly … for the whole international community 

**Conventional weaknesses will force North Korea to resort to CBW use – either deliberate, accidental or unathorized**
**ICG, 09** (6/18/09, International Crisis Group, “North Korea’s Chemical and Biological Weapons Programs,”[[http://www.crisisgroup.org/en/regions/asia/north-east-asia/north-korea/167-north-koreas-chemical-and-biological-weapons-programs.aspx]], ) 

This report examines North Korea’s … unauthorised WMD attacks or incidents. 

**North Korean bioweapon use would spread globally within six weeks – greater risk that nuclear weapons**
**Levy 07** (6-8-07, Janet Ellen, The American Thinking, “The Threat of Bioweapons,”[[http://www.americanthinker.com/2007/06/the_threat_of_bioweapons.html]], ) 

Immediately following 9-11, an anthrax attack … can be developed within days. 

**Impact is extinction**
**Ochs 02** – MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY,” Jun 9,[[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]]] 

Of all the weapons of … the highest of all crimes. 

**Withdrawing USFK solves – stops North Korea from probing U.S. weakness to draw our forces into a wider conflict. Air and naval installations will maintain power projection capabilities.**
**Stanton, 10** – U.S. Army Judge Advocate in Korea from 98-02 and practicing attorney in Washington, D.C. (4/12/10, Joshua, The New Ledger, “It's Time for the U.S. Army to Leave Korea,”[[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2010/04/11/opinion/main6386737.shtml]], ) 

Proceeding against the advice … , aligns with the correct result. 


----


===1AC Emory=== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should phase out its military presence from South Korea. </span>**


**Contention 1 is Proliferation:**

**North Korea is nearing a wave of massive proliferation—New Facilities prove** 
**Yonhap News 1/24** (“(Yonhap Interview) U.S. surprised at high level of sophistication in N. Korea's uranium plant: Hecker”, 1/24/11, [[http://english.yonhapnews.co.kr/national/2011/01/24/51/0301000000AEN20110124002700315F.HTML]]) 

SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 23 (Yonhap) -- U.S. officials … has nuclear weapons, Hecker said.

**China isn’t cooperating now- multiple leaked cables prove** 
**Stricker 12/10** (Andrea—Research analyst at the Institute for Science and International Security, “State Department Cables: Stopping Iran’s and North Korea’s Illicit Procurement for their Nuclear and Ballistic Missile Programs,” ISIS Reports, 12/10/10, http://isis-online.org/isis-reports/detail/state-department-cables-stopping-irans-and-north-koreas-illicit-procurement/)


U.S. State Department cables released … resolutions against the two countries.


**Troop withdrawal is the lynchpin for Chinese cooperation** 
<span style="color: black;">**Carpenter 10** (Ted Galen—vice president for defense and foreign-policy studies at the Cato Institute, PhD in history, “China Spats”, The National Interest, 8/3/10,http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/china-spats-3778) </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
Relations between China and the … nothing at all in return.

**Cooperation is key to effective economic sanctions** 
<span style="color: black;">**Gyeong-seob 12/21** (Oh—secretary general of Network for North Korean Democracy and Human Rights & Research Fellow at the Sejong Institute, “International Cooperation for the Denuclearization of North Korea: Limitations and Alternatives” Korea Focus, 12/21/10, [[http://www.koreafocus.or.kr/design2/layout/content_print.asp?group_id=103198]]) </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
__<span style="color: black;">Sanctions International efforts to disarm … the effect of the sanctions</span>__<span style="color: black;">. </span>


**Chinese Cooperation is limited now. Increasing cooperation is key to prevent North Korea from Expanding Enrichment and solving Proliferation** 
**Albright and Brannan 2010**
(David Albright- president of the Institute for Science and International Security is involved in the National Committee on North Korea and the Task Force on US Korea Policy, and Paul Brannan- Senior Analyst at the ISIS, “Taking Stock: North Korea’s Uranium Enrichment Program,” The Institute for Science and International Security, 8/3/10, http://www.isis-online.org/uploads/isis-reports/documents/ISIS_DPRK_UEP.pdf)

The most effective way to … procurement for its nuclear programs.


**North Korean nuclearization causes regional proliferation --- the impact is nuclear war** 
**<span style="color: black;">Cimbala 10 (</span>**<span style="color: black;">Stephen—Prof. of Political Science at Penn State, “Nuclear Weapons and Cooperative Security in the 21st Century”, p. 117-8) </span>
<span style="color: black;"> </span>
**<span style="mso-bidi-font-weight: normal;">__<span style="color: black;">Failure to contain proliferation in … </span>__</span>**<span style="color: black;">attack, thus triggering a mistaken preemption.</span>


Contention 2 is War on the Peninsula:

**North Korea recently fired upon the South − U.S. troops were the reason for this provocation** 
**OFW 11/25** (“South Korean Defense Minister resigned over criticisms,” 11/25/10,http://ofwnow.com/global-news/south-korean-defense-minister-resigned-over-criticisms/8377)

After two Koreas exchanged fires … US troops near its territory.

**More provocations will go nuclear—we’re on the brink of massive South Korean retaliation** 
**Watts 12/2**3 (Jonathon—The Guardian's Asia environment correspondent, “North Korea threatens nuclear 'holy war' with South”, The Guardian, 12/23/10, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/dec/23/north-korea-holy-war-warning)

Tensions on the Korean pensinsula … escalated display of self-defence.

**South Korea will retaliate to further North Korean belligerence − U.S. military presence on the Peninsula guarantees we get drawn into the war**
**Carpenter 11/29** (Ted Galen—Vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute, “Does Washington Need to Fear South Korea More than North Korea?”, National Interest, http://nationalinterest.org/node/4488) 

U.S. officials understandably focus on … presence in such a dangerous neighborhood.

**South Korean war games provoke North Korea into attacking**
**AFP 1-3** (“S.Korea to hold war games against N.Korea infiltration,” AFP, 1/3/11, http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5jSWdZ37S296Enq9A2QX4Zkc_kf9A?docId=CNG.78059d0da1e1ba2943ff574decdc6bdd.351)

South Korean marines and naval … their own doom," it said.

**North Korea doesn’t take U.S. deterrence seriously anymore** 
**Fenenko 12/8** (Alexei—Leading research fellow at the Russian Academy of Sciences' Institute of International Security, PhD, “North Korea no longer takes the U.S. security guarantees seriously”, RIA Novosti,12/8/10,http://en.rian.ru/valdai_op/20101208/161686288.html)

The current crisis reveals yet … War, not start it anew.

**The plan is THE KEY concession that prevents provocations from escalating to war in a matter of weeks − it also forces South Korea, Japan, China, and Russia to pressure North Korea** 
**Trifkovic 11/29** (Srdja−Foreign Affairs Editor, and Director of the Rockford Institute’s Center for International Affairs, “Time to Leave Korea,” http://novakeo.com/?p=8796)

North Korea’s artillery attack on a … Kim as they deem fit.

**U.S. deterrence fails and only provokes the North. The root cause of all prior attacks as well as North Korean prolif is U.S. hostile policy. Only troop withdrawal prevents war with North Korea and China.** 
**Beal 12/13** (Tim—PhD in China's terms of trade, MA with Honors in modern Chinese studies, “A Second Korean War would become a Sino-American War”, Global Research, 12/13/10, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1012/S00127/a-second-korean-war-would-become-a-sino-american-war.htm)

The US-ROK joint military exercises … , should be disbanded without delay. [28]

**U.S. involvement means the conflict quickly escalates to global nuclear war** 
**KCNA 10** (“US Arms Sale to South Korea Flayed,”, Korean Central News Agency,8/7/10, http://www.kcna.co.jp/item/2010/201009/news07/20100907-04ee.html) 

The U.S. is the arch criminal … entirely depends on the U.S. attitude.


**Contention 3 is Arms Sales:**

**South Korea is free-riding – defense spending is tiny** 
**Bennett 10** (Bruce, Senior Policy Analyst – RAND Corporation, “S. Korea’s Military Capability ‘Inadequate’”, Chosun Ilbo, 1-29, http://english.chosun.com/site/data/html_dir/2010/01/29/2010012900705.html) 

An American academic says South … Korea's catastrophic threats," he added. 

**Any Russian growth reports are manipulated and exaggerated at best; Best analysis proves Russian Economic crisis is Emimnent** 
**Yasina 10** (Irina, analyst at the Institute of Transitional Economy, a weekly economic commentator for RIA Novosti, and a representative of the Open Russia Foundation, “Is Russia's Economic Crisis Over?”, The Korea Times, 2-1, Lexis)

MOSCOW - Has Russia's economic crisis … the rest of the world.

**Empirically, US reduction in military presence triggers the ROK to expand and modernize their military** 
**Feffer 09** (John, Co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, “Ploughshares into Swords: Economic Implications of South Korean Military Spending”, Korea Economic Institute, Academic Paper Series, 4(2), February, http://www.keia.org/Publications/AcademicPaperSeries/2009/APS-Feffer.pdf) 

To understand the dynamics of … response to U.S. global force transformation.

**ROK-Russia arms negotiations on brink and Russia will push for arms exports to compensate for debt from South Korean loans** 
**Sung-ki 10** (Jung, Staff Reporter, “Seoul Seeks to get Moscow’s Arms Technology”, The Korean Times, 2-09, http://www.koreatimes.co.kr/www/news/nation/2010/06/113_60599.html)

South Korea and Russia are … Murena-E hovercraft and seven Ka-32s.

**Russian weapons sales to ROK are limited by US presence** 
**Ahn 09** (Se Hyun, PhD, London School of Economics and Political Science; MA, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University is currently an assistant professor at the Department of International Relations in the University of Seoul, South Korea, and a former visiting research fellow at the Asia Research Center in the London School of Economics., “Understanding Russian-South Korean Arms Trade A Nontraditional Security Approach?”, Armed Forces & Security, 35(3), April, http://spafs.highwire.org/cgi/reprint/35/3/421)

In the mid-1990s, the U.S. … on the South Korean government.

**Russia will fill-in and sell to South Korea** 
**Wimbush 7** (S. Enders, Senior Fellow and Director – Center for Future Security Strategies at the Hudson Institute, “A Parable: The U.S.–South Korea Security Relationship Breaks Down”, 9-10, http://www.nbr.org/downloads/pdfs/ PSA/USROK_Conf07_Wimbush.pdf) 

The Russians watched the worsening … South Korea’s leading defense supplier.

**Arms sales are key to the Russian economy** 
**McLean 6** (Robert T., Research Associate – Center for Security Policy, “From Russian With Arms”, American Spectator, 5-2, http://spectator.org/archives/2006/05/02/from-russia-with-arms)

The Russian economy remains largely … help fuel its defense industry.

**Russian economic decline causes nuclear war** 
**Filger 9** (Sheldon, founder of Global Economic Crisis, The Huffington Post,, 5.10.9, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html ) 

In Russia, historically, economic health … just may be possible that U.S. 

=Negative=