__Contention 1: Times Have Changed__

Withdrawal from Okinawa recognizes US deployment on Okinawa, the imbalanced alliance, and violence against women as uniquely ingrained in gendered and securitized discourses. Our advocacy is a recognition and a solution.
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kirk & Feffer 8</span></span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">http://www.fpif.org/articles/gender_and_us_bases_in_asia-pacific</span></span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"The <span style="background-color: aqua;">power dynamics....</span></span></span></span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">accordingly."</span>


And, The US and Japan are in the midst of an alliance transformation, but Okinawan opposition to bases will sink the boat. 


<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Hayahshi 11/2</span></span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"><http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704141104575587942224837482.html></span></span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"><span class="underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">"The twists...mid november"</span>**</span></span></span>


**And, Presence in Okinawa is the biggest obstacle in the alliance.**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">CRS 09</span></span>**
**<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"Okinawa as Focus....</span></span><span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10.8px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 16px;">relocation plans by 2014."</span>**

**But ground troops aren<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">’</span>t key to leadership <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> balanced alliance, Seventh fleet and Air Force solve deterrence.**
<span style="display: inline ! important;"> <span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rapp 04</span></span> </span> 
**"<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04"</span>**


" <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">**Focusing narrowly...**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">East Asia."</span>


And, Policy which focuses on individual bases and privileges US security interests locks the alliance into the failing cold-war framework. Only a broad solution can fracture bureaucratic inertia and reshape the alliance.
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Jitsuro 8-9 "</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">“The US-Japan Alliance Must Evolve: The Futenma Flip-Flop, the Hatoyama Failure, and the Future”)"</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">"In the raging currents,...will never end."</span>

Now is key for the case <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> new election provides opportunity for a reset.
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Foster and Kanak 9/15</span></span>
<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">"</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">Life rarely gives chances....America will benefit."</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Thus the plan: The United States federal government should withdraw the United States military presence from the Okinawa.</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The alliance must respond to the Japanese desire for an equal role. Japan can rise within the alliance without aggressive expansion and bilateral diplomacy checks foreign worries and promotes stability.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.2px;"> Rapp 04</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">It appears....</span><span style="font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">U.S.-Japan security alliance. "</span></span>

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13.2px;">US <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> Japan relations aid regional negotiations <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> Proliferation Security Initiative proves.</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.2px;">Rapp 04</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04"</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">"Finally, </span><span class="underline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">as the United States....</span></span>regimes and institutions in the region"</span>

Japan is comparatively better than US unilateralism at creating Asian stability.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 15.84px;"><span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rapp 04</span></span>“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Finally, as the partnership deepens....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">security environment of Asia."</span>

A healthy cooperation prevents multiple nuclear wars <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> Asia is the most likely hotspot.

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Armitage et al. 2K </span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px; line-height: 13px;">"</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">Asia, in the throes of historic....foundation for the 21st century"</span>


__Scenario 2 is Democracy:__

On Okinawa base issues, Japan uses the federal executive, legislative, and judicial branches to subordinate individual and state rights, critically undermining democracy. 

<span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 13.2px; line-height: 19px;">Mulgan 2K </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/713683781, WBTA</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt; line-height: 6px;">The domestic politics.....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">base-related"</span>

The DPJ just brought Japan to a two party system but US troops will reverse progress

<span class="tagChar">Buruma 8-6</span> (Ian Buruma, Professor of Democracy and Human Rights at Bard College, 08-06-10 “Japan’s Unfinished Reformation” http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/buruma40/English)


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Revolutions, it is often claimed, do not happen when people are desperate. They occur in times of rising expectations. Perhaps this is why they so often end in disappointment....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">efforts to strengthen its democracy"</span>

Strong Japanese democracy checks global democratic backslide.


<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Auslin 10/5/10</span></span>

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">"</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">At the other end of Asia...</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">shape the 21st, as well."</span>


A strong alliance spreads democratic principles through Asia.

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rapp 04</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">“Paths Diverging? The Next Decade in the U.S.-Japan Security Alliance” 1-04</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">"Finally<span class="underline">, the alliance..</span>stability to the region"</span>



Multilateral democratic institution building makes existing efforts successful and ends violent failures. The alternative is nuclear war. 

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Shaw 99</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">(Martin Shaw, IR Professor at Sussex, 11-9-99 “The unfinished global revolution: Intellectuals and the new politics of international relations.”)</span>



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 13.2px;">"From these political fundamentals....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10.8px; line-height: 16px;">relations and politics, are intertwined"</span>



Democracies don<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">’</span>t fight each other <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">–</span> best for long term stability

<span class="tagChar"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Lynn- Jones </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">’</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">98</span></span>



"<span style="font-size: 13.2px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">In addition to improving....</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">democratic "zone of peace.""</span>__</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">__**Extinction**__ </span>




**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Diamond</span>__**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> 19**__95__**</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This hardly exhausts...</span><span style="font-size: 13.2px;">__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">prosperity can be built."</span>__</span>


=Specific Rounds - USC= 

Round 1 vs. Sage Ridge DW

1AC PMC's 
1NC Gender K, Russia SOI DA, Regulate PMC's CP, Case
2NR Gender K

Round 3 vs. Loyola OP
1AC Ethics Drones
1NC Gender K, T - Presence, NGV Politics, Pakistan PIC, Util/Case
2NR T - Presence, FW/Ptx

Round 5 vs. Bingham DT
1AC South Korea
1NC South Korea Econ DA, MIB PIC w/ CBW's NB, Gender K, Case
2NR Econ DA and MIB PIC