[[toc]]
email [[mailto:willcaplan@gmail.com|willcaplan@gmail.com]] for neg cites
email [[mailto:mazimi18@gmail.com|mazimi18@gmail.com]] for aff cites
=NDCA STUFF= 
look at viveth and christi's wiki- viveth put up our deterrence aff there
idk if the other aff was put up anywhere- but here is the k aff
<span class="Underline"> COIN K aff 1AC </span>
<span class="Underline">Plan </span>
<span class="Underline">Plan: The United States federal government should end the war in Afghanistan. </span>

<span class="Underline">Contention 1 is Baracka Flocka Flame </span>

<span class="Underline">War in afghanistan shreds US effective diplomacy </span>
<span class="Underline">Haddick 10 (Robert Haddick, Managing Editor of Small Wars Journal, former Marine Corps Officer, holds a B.A. and M.B.A. from the University of Illinois, “This Week at War: The Afghanistan Vortex,” Foreign Policy, June 25, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/06/25/this_week_at_war_the_afghanistan_vortex) </span>

<span class="Underline">Afghanistan is becoming a deepening vortex for both the United States military and for the country's national security policies. In addition to the financial and human toll (80 ISAF soldiers have died so far this month), Afghanistan is imposing other costs on the U.S. military, on U.S. defense planning, and on America's diplomatic leverage around the world. When assessing the benefits to be achieved by the Afghan campaign, these costs also merit consideration. The administration and its military advisers have chosen a manpower-intensive counterinsurgency strategy for Afghanistan. Defense Secretary Robert Gates and a long list of officials have expressed their concerns about the implications of repeated deployments for the all-volunteer force. Afghanistan also seems to chew up generals. Gen. David McKiernan was replaced out of frustration with a lack of progress. The same frustration, expressing itself in behind-the-scenes contempt and bickering, brought down Gen. Stanley McChrystal. Now Petraeus has been recalled from a depleted bench. This move has its price. After jumping into the Afghan vortex, Petraeus will leave behind his critical duties at Central Command, which include diplomacy across the Middle East and Central Asia, the containment of Iran, and supervising the endgame in Iraq. The administration has yet to announce who, if anyone, will replace Petraeus at Centcom. The Afghan vortex has implications for defense planning elsewhere in the world. In a speech he delivered to the Navy League in May, Gates said that the costs of rehabilitating the Army and Marine Corps, combined with the ground force's long term manpower and family support costs, will mean that the Navy will see no increases in its budget. The secretary general of Japan's ruling party recently argued that U.S. naval power is in decline and that Japan needs to adjust its maritime security policy accordingly. When that view spreads throughout Asia, an arms race will be inevitable. The deepening commitment has forced the U.S. government into the position of pleading for favors from Pakistan and Russia in order to open new supply lines to the growing army in Afghanistan. The price has been to forfeit diplomatic leverage with implications for U.S. relations in Europe, India, and China. Are the campaign objectives in Afghanistan worth all of these costs? Evidently, Obama has decided that they are. A smaller commitment to Afghanistan would presumably reduce or eliminate the costs described above. But such a course would have its own risks, which Obama has presumably considered and rejected. </span>


<span class="Underline">That’s key to getting Obama’s foreign policy goals back on track </span>
<span class="Underline">Cohen 09 (11/30, Michael, senior research fellow at the New America Foundation, New York Daily News, " Mother of all decisions: If Obama escalates in Afghanistan, he'll set back ... ", http://www.nydailynews.com/opinions/2009/11/30/2009-11-30_the_mother_of_all_decisions.html) </span>

<span class="Underline">Sending from 30,000 to 40,000 troops to that tumultuous nation will likely wreak havoc on Obama's broader first-term foreign policy agenda - consuming resources, sucking up time and attention, and ultimately subverting his larger foreign policy goals. In August, National Intelligence Council Chairman John Brennan declared that under Obama, "the fight against terrorists and violent extremists has been returned to its right and proper place: no longer defining - indeed, distorting - our entire national security and foreign policy, but rather serving as a vital part of those larger policies." But the military commitment endorsed by President Obama would have the reverse effect - officially making stabilization in Afghanistan and the war against Al Qaeda and the Taliban the President's top priority. For example, one of the most serious challenges facing the country's national security bureaucracy - one Obama and Secretary of State Clinton have expressed serious concern about in the past - is the skewed balance between resources for our military and civilian agencies. Nearly everyone in the foreign policy community agrees that both State and the U.S. Agency for International Development are badly under-resourced. But with Obama's likely troop increase in Afghanistan, agencies like the State Department and USAID will see their dwindling capacity devoted to assisting the military as opposed to the long-term diplomacy and development work that can further U.S. interests in places not named Afghanistan or Pakistan. The civilian-military balance will only become further skewed. And if the administration requests $100 billion a year for the war in Afghanistan, in the face of looming budget deficits, what are the chances Congress will loosen its purse strings further for two underappreciated foreign policy agencies? Finally, Obama and his advisers will be pressed in devoting their attention and political capital to other foreign policy matters, whether it's pushing for a solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, organizing an international coalition to confront the Iranian nuclear program or hammering out international agreements on climate change and trade. It's never easy for Presidents and their advisers to proverbially "walk and chew gum at the same time," and having 100,000 troops in Afghanistan will make it that much harder. But above all, Obama's goal of changing America's mind-set from the belief that there is a military solution to every national security challenge will be dealt a defining and perhaps fatal blow - and in the end, that is probably the most important reason why troop levels in Afghanistan matter and why the President should think twice. The opportunity costs will be profound, and Obama will risk becoming the one thing he likely did not want to be: a war President. </span>

<span class="Underline">Effective diplomacy is key to stop warming </span>
<span class="Underline">Hague 10 (William Hague, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs and Member of Parliament for Richmond, United Kingdom, “The Diplomacy of Climate Change,” 9/27/10) </span>

<span class="Underline">But I particularly wanted to make the point to this audience and to circulate to a wider audience certain points about climate change this morning, which is perhaps the 21st century's biggest foreign- policy challenge, along with preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. I believe those two threats over the longer term are the biggest threats to the peace and security of the world. </span>
<span class="Underline">A world that is failing to respond to climate change is one in which the values embodied in the United Nations will not be met, and it's a world in which competition and conflict would win out over collaboration. We're at a very crucial point in the global debate on this subject. Many people are questioning, in the wake of Copenhagen, whether we should continue to seek a response to climate change through the U.N. and whether we can ever hope to deal with this enormous challenge. And I will first argue today that an effective response to climate change underpins our security and prosperity; second, that our response should be to strive for a binding global deal, whatever the setbacks; and third, I will set out why effective deployment of foreign policy assets is crucial to mobilizing the political will needed if we're going to shape an effective response. Now, Ban Ki-moon is right to have made climate change his top priority. Two weeks ago, I was talking about Britain's values in a networked world. I said then that a successful response to climate change must be a central objective of British foreign policy. And I said this not only because I believe action against climate change is in line with a values-based foreign policy, but because it underpins our prosperity and security. You can't have food, water or energy security without climate security; they are interconnected and inseparable. They form four resource pillars on which global security, prosperity and equity stand. Each depends on the other. Plentiful, affordable food requires reliable and affordable access to water and energy. Increasing dependence on coal, oil and gas threatens climate security, increasing the severity of floods and droughts, damaging food production, exacerbating the loss of biodiversity, and in countries that rely on hydropower, undermining energy security through the impact on the availability of water. As the world becomes more networked, the impact of climate change in one country or region will affect the prosperity and security of others around the world. No one can have failed to be appalled by the devastating floods in Pakistan. They overwhelmed the capacity of government to respond and opened political space for extremists. While Pakistan has borne the brunt of the human impact, China too has been hit on a vast scale by a seemingly endless sequence of droughts, floods and deadly mudslides. The Russian drought last month damaged the wheat harvest, leading to an export ban. World prices surged, hitting the poorest hardest, and sparking riots over bread prices in far away Mozambique. While no one weather event can ever be linked with certainty to climate change, the broad patterns of abnormality seen this year are consistent with climate-change models. They provide an illustration of the events we will be encountering increasingly in the future. So the clock is ticking, and the time to act is now. We must all take responsibility for this threat and take robust action. But we must also be clear-headed about the difficulties of reaching agreement and not lose heart when the going gets tough. The post-war leaders set up the United Nations in the aftermath of conflagration. They saw the pressing need for global solutions to global problems: cooperation not conflict, through frameworks and institutions embedded in the rule of law, and an international system that is fair and offers everyone a realistic prospect of security and prosperity. Failure to respond to climate change is inimical to all these values, undermining trust between nations, intensifying competition for resources, and shrinking the political space available for cooperation. It is an affront to fairness, since it puts the greatest burden on those who have done least to cause the problem and are least able to deal with its consequences. It is incompatible with the values and aspirations that the U.N. embodies. And it's incompatible with the values and aspirations of British foreign policy. For more than 20 years, we've been striving to build an effective international response to climate change. But we have lacked the collective ambition required. We need to shift investment urgently from high-carbon "business as usual" to the low-carbon economy. This means building an essentially decarbonized global economy by mid- century. At the same time, we must ensure development is climate resilient; otherwise, the changes in climate that are already unavoidable will block the path for hundreds of millions of people from poverty to prosperity. These changes also threaten to sweep away the investments in development we have made, and just as the bridges and schools in Pakistan were swept away. To drive that shift in investment from low to high carbon, we need a global climate change deal under the United Nations. Now, some have argued that we should abandon hope of doing so. They say Copenhagen proved it's all too difficult; we should focus instead on less inclusive and less demanding responses, such as coalitions of the willing. But we believe this would be a strategic error. It mistakes the nature of the task, which is to expand the realm of the possible, not to lower our ambition by accepting its current limits. And we must recognize this at Cancun. One thing Copenhagen did give us was a set of political commitments, captured in the Copenhagen Accord, on which we can build. More than 120 countries have now associated themselves with that accord, and that represents a broad and growing consensus. We now need to ensure that we live up to the commitments we made to each other in the accord, and reach out even more widely. Copenhagen, despite those accords, was a strategic setback, but it was not by any means the end of the road. We need to be clear why it failed to live up to high expectations and why it did not deliver a legally binding deal. Many people say that it failed because of process: The diplomats and the politicians had created a negotiation that was too difficult and too complex. But this misses the point. International treaties are an outcome, not an input, of political bargains. If you've made the political commitment to deliver, you can make the process work to deliver. The real reason Copenhagen did not deliver on high expectations was a lack of political will. Many in developing countries saw a gap between the words and the deeds of the industrialized economies. They questioned whether we really believed our own rhetoric. And to answer those questions, we each need to start at home. That is why the coalition government to which I belong has committed itself to being the greenest government ever in the United Kingdom, and why, with others in Europe, we are calling on the European Union to commit to a 30-percent cut in emissions by 2020 without waiting for the rest of the world to act. The UK is already the world leader in offshore wind, with more projects installed, in planning and in construction than any other country in the world. We're undertaking the most radical transformation of our electricity sector ever. We aim to provide over 30 percent of our domestic electricity from renewables by 2020. We have committed to build no new coal-fired power stations without carbon capture and storage technology, and we've announced our intention to continue the demonstration projects of that. And because it's imperative that foreign and domestic policies are mutually reinforcing, we must ensure that our approach is coherent. Now, that's one reason we have established the new British National Security Council: to ensure this happens across the full range of issues, including climate change. And that's why I work hand in glove with Chris Huhne, the British Energy and Climate Change secretary, and Andrew Mitchell, the International Development secretary, to ensure that our domestic action reflects our level of international ambition. But we won't succeed, of course, if we act alone. We must aim for a framework that is global and binding. It needs to be global because climate change affects everyone. Only a response that allows everyone a voice will generate a sense of common purpose and legitimacy. Only a response that is binding will convince investors that we intend to keep the promises we make to each other. Businesses need clear political signals, so let's show them an unequivocal green light. We are now a few weeks away from the 16th Conference of Parties on Climate Change in Cancun. And I commend the consultative and collaborative approach Mexico has taken ahead of this meeting. Thanks to their determination and foresight, we have a chance in Cancun to regain momentum and make progress on key issues such as forests, technology, finance and transparency of commitments. Cancun will -- may not get us all the way to a full agreement, but it can put us back on track to one. That said, the negotiations can't succeed inside a bubble. The negotiators in the U.N. process can't themselves build political will. They have to operate on the basis of current political realities in the countries they represent. And it's those realities that limit the ambition that we can set in the -- in such negotiations, and it's those realities that we now need to shift. There is no global consensus on what climate change puts at risk, geopolitically and for the global economy, and thus on the scale and urgency of the response we need. We must build a global consensus if we are to guarantee our citizens security and prosperity. That is a job for foreign policy. A fundamental purpose here for foreign policy is to shift the political debate, to create the political space for leaders and negotiators to reach agreement. We didn't get that right before Copenhagen, and we must get it right now. So we urgently need to mobilize foreign ministers and the diplomats they lead, as well as institutions such as the Council on Foreign Relations, to put climate change at the heart of foreign- policy thinking. When I became foreign secretary in May, I said the core goals of our foreign policy were to guarantee Britain's security and prosperity. Robust global action on climate change is essential to that agenda. That is why the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office, under my leadership, is a vocal advocate for climate diplomacy. All British ambassadors carry the argument for a global low-carbon transition in their breast pocket or in their handbag. Climate change is part of their daily vocabulary, alongside the traditional themes of foreign policy. And they're supported by our unique network of climate attaches throughout the world. The core assets of foreign policy are its networks and its convening power. Foreign policy can build political impulses to overcome barriers between sectors and cultures. In a networked world, diplomacy builds partnerships beyond government. And nowhere are those partnerships more vital than on climate. So we must mobilize all our networks, not just across government but between governments, using organizations such as the Commonwealth as well. We must reach out, beyond, to NGOs, faith groups and businesses. And of all these, perhaps business engagement is the key to making a difference. It's business that will lead low-carbon transition. It's business that best understands the incentives needed to help us all prosper. We must also harness scientific expertise in cutting-edge low- carbon technologies. The scientific community will develop the goods which will power the low-carbon economy and drive global ambition on climate change. And that's why the British government has a science and innovation network, which fosters collaborative research in the U.K. and other countries. Now, what can the U.K. and the European Union do to make that fundamental shift and shape a global consensus on climate change? The most serious problem at Copenhagen, and the strongest brake on political will, was and is a lack of confidence in the low-carbon economy. Too few people in too few countries are yet convinced that a rapid move to low carbon is compatible with economic recovery and growth. They see the short-term economic and domestic stability risks before the opportunities and the longer-term risks of inaction. There should be only one European response to that confidence gap. The EU, in my view, must accelerate its own progress and demonstrate that a low-carbon growth path makes us more competitive. I am convinced this is in the long-term interests of Europe's economy. We have learned painful lessons from the oil price shocks. We must modernize our infrastructure. The opportunities are out there. The global industry in low-carbon and environmental goods and services is already estimated to be worth up to 3.2 trillion pounds a year. Nearly a million British people are now employed in this sector, and that's why we are creating a green investment bank to ensure that we can properly support and develop low-carbon industry. But we need to redouble our efforts, both in the EU (itself ?) and in our engagement with partners. Each of us as member states will be better able to accelerate if we're doing so together as the world's largest single market. And by opening up this effort through partnership with others, we can make it easier for them to accelerate, too. So we'll be at the forefront of pushing for low-carbon modernization of Europe's infrastructure and energy policy. The European Union's budget until 2013 is set out in the current "financial perspective". We will argue -- we will need to agree the financial perspective for the seven years after that, the period including our 2020 climate goals. And it's -- as ever, it's right that the EU budget should reflect the prevailing economic circumstances. It's also right that we direct the budget to today's challenges, not those of yesterday. And that means one that supports the transition to a low-carbon economy. Action in Europe alone will not be enough. We need both the developed and developing world to take action. And this week Guido Westerwelle, the German foreign minister, and I have tasked our teams to come together to shape a coordinated, diplomacy-led effort on climate change, combining the strengths of our respective foreign services. I've just put the case for bringing a new urgency for low-carbon transition within the EU. But together we should carry that urgency in external dialogues, whether they are with the United States, China or India. The transition to low carbon will happen faster and maximize the benefit for all if the United States -- historically the world's largest emitter -- is at the leading edge. I recognize the political challenges that the U.S. administration faces and welcome President Obama's commitment to combat climate change. As he said in his State of the Union speech, "the nation that leads the clean-energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy." Whatever the outcome of the upcoming midterm elections in the U.S., there is scope for political unity around an economic agenda that targets new energy opportunities and new jobs. American business understands this new market and should want to lead it. But to make these new clean-energy investments at the required pace and on a sufficient scale, they need the right incentives. On climate, as in so many areas, the world looks to the US for leadership, because it has the economic clout and diplomatic leverage to shift the global debate. And I look forward to working with the U.S. administration and indeed with the Council on Foreign Relations to raise global ambitions and put us back on the path to sustainable growth. A key challenge for Europe is to build an economic partnership with China that reinforces the steps China is taking towards a low- carbon economy. These steps include its recent announcement of the five provinces and eight cities that have been designated as China's low-carbon pilots. Together these pilots cover 350 million people, so an ambitious approach to these schemes, tenaciously implemented, could provide a critical boost to global confidence in the concept of low- carbon development and help put China on the path to sustainable prosperity. It could also produce huge two-way investment and partnership opportunities. Europe should place itself at the heart of these, working with China to maximize the ambition and the opportunities and to build the shared technology standards that will shape a global low- carbon market. In China's case, low-carbon opportunity is matched by urgent low- carbon need. The pace of growth in China means average Chinese per- capita emissions could soon eclipse those of Europe. So while China has taken some very welcome steps, without a commitment from China to further decisive action, the efforts of others will be in vain. The emerging economies face a dilemma. Often they are the most vulnerable to the direct effects of climate change. But they are concerned that action against climate change will adversely affect their development. The challenge to all countries is to have a high- growth, low-carbon economy. Some, like Brazil, which derives nearly half its energy from clean and renewable resources, are rising to that challenge. India is another, embodying in microcosm the challenge that climate change poses to us all. Threatened by food, water and energy insecurity, India has responded with ambitious plans to generate 20 gigawatts of solar power by 2022. South Africa, a coal-dependent economy, the success of which is so important to growth and prosperity within the continent, has made a significant offer to deviate their emissions from the business-as- usual pathway. The opportunity is for the emerging economies -- for the emerging economies is to make a direct leap to low carbon, avoiding the high- carbon lock-in that we see in the developed world: a new, sustainable pathway for prosperity and security. A global low-carbon economy is not an idealist's pipe dream but a 21st-century realist's imperative. Countries that adapt quickly to a carbon-constrained world will be better able to deliver lasting prosperity for their citizens. As a Permanent Security Council member, I'm determined that the U.K. will play its full part in that, not least by supporting climate finance for the poorest. Collectively, we share a responsibility to those most vulnerable to the impact of climate change. Bangladesh, with its densely populated coastal region, is particularly susceptible to rising sea levels. Glacial melt, sea-level rises and El Nino-type events threaten the lives of millions across South America. And the very existence of many small island states is under threat. We have a shared vision to meet the Millennium Development Goals. But in a world without action on climate change, that vision will remain a dream, and the efforts of the last 10 years would So climate change is one of the gravest threats to our security and prosperity. Unless we take robust and timely action to deal with it, no country will be immune to its effects. However difficult it might seem now, a global deal under the U.N. is the only response to this threat which will create the necessary confidence to drive a low- carbon transition. We must be undaunted by the scale of the challenge. We must continue to strive for agreement. We must not accept that because there is no consensus on a way forward now, that there never will be one. And to change the debate, we must imaginatively deploy all of the foreign policy assets in our armory until we've shaped that global consensus. A successful response to climate change will not only stabilize the climate, but open the way to a future in which we can meet our needs through cooperation, in accordance with the ideals of the United Nations. Failure to do so will enhance competitive tendencies and make the world more dangerous, so this is not actually a hard choice. We have to get this right. If we do, we can still shape our world. And if we don't, the world will determine our destiny for us. </span>

<span class="Underline">Warming causes Extinction </span>
<span class="Underline">Lester R. Brown, founder of the Worldwatch Institute and the Earth Policy Institute, 08 </span>
<span class="Underline">[“Plan B 3.0: Mobilizing to Save Civilization,” http://www.earth-policy.org/index.php?/books/pb3] </span>

<span class="Underline">Researchers such as James Hansen, a leading climate scientist at NASA, believe that global warming is accelerating and may be approaching a tipping point, a point at which climate change acquires a momentum that makes it irreversible. They think we may have a decade to turn the situation around before this threshold is crossed. I agree.?3 We often hear descriptions of what we need to do in the decades ahead or by 2050 to avoid "dangerous climate change," but we are already facing this. Two thirds of the glaciers that feed the Yellow and Yangtze rivers of China will disappear by 2060 if even the current 7 percent annual rate of melting con-tinues. Glaciologists report that the Gangotri glacier, which supplies 70 percent of the ice melt that feeds the Ganges River during the dry season, could disappear entirely in a matter of decades.74 What could threaten world food security more than the melting of the glaciers that feed the major rivers of Asia during the dry season, the rivers that irrigate the region's rice and wheat fields? In a region with half the world's people, this potential loss of water during the dry season could lead not just to hunger but to starvation on an unimaginable scale. Asian food security would take a second hit because its rice-growing river deltas and floodplains would be under water. The World Bank tells us that a sea level rise of only 1 meter would inundate half of the riceland in Bangladesh. While a 1-meter rise in sea level will not happen overnight, what is worrisome is that if ice melting continues at today's rates, at some point such a rise in sea level will no longer be preventable. The melting that would cause this is not just what may happen if the earth's temperature rises further; this is something that is starting to happen right now with the current temperature. As summer neared an end in 2007, reports from Greenland indicated that the flow of glaciers into the sea had accelerated beyond anything glaciologists had thought possible. Huge chunks of ice weighing several billion tons each were breaking off and sliding into the sea, causing minor earthquakes as they did so.!6 With melt-water lubricating the surface between the glaciers and the rocks on which they rested, ice flows were accelerating, flowing into the ocean at a pace of 2 meters an hour. This accelerated flow, along with the earthquakes, shows the potential for the entire ice sheet to break up and collapse?? Beyond what is already happening, the world faces a risk that some of the feedback mechanisms will begin to kick in, further accelerating the warming process. Scientists who once thought that the Arctic Ocean could be free of ice during the summer by 2100 now see it occurring by 2030. Even this could turn out to be a conservative estimate.78 This is of particular concern to scientists because of the albedo effect, where the replacement of highly reflective sea ice with darker open water greatly increases heat absorbed from sunlight. This, of course, has the potential to further accelerate the melting of the Greenland ice sheet. A second feedback loop of concern is the melting of permafrost. This would release billions of tons of carbon, some as methane, a potent greenhouse gas with a global warming effect per ton 25 times that of carbon dioxide.79 The risk facing humanity is that climate change could spiral out of control and it will no longer be possible to arrest trends such as ice melting and rising sea level. At this point, the future of civilization would be at risk. This combination of melting glaciers, rising seas, and their effects on food security and low-lying coastal cities could overwhelm the capacity of governments to cope. Today it is largely weak states that begin to deteriorate under the pressures of mounting environmental stresses. But the changes just described could overwhelm even the strongest of states. Civilization itself could begin to unravel under these extreme stresses. </span>

<span class="Underline">The war </span>


<span class="Underline">1. Contention 2 is the double sided COIN </span>

<span class="Underline">A. Structural violence </span>
<span class="Underline">Counterinsurgency is used to mask killing and “nation-building” is used to mask its attrocities </span>
<span class="Underline">Brey 3 – 4 – 11 (Chris, Specialist Reporter for the Washington Post, “Bing West's "The Wrong War," on Afghanistan strategy”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2011/03/04/AR2011030403324.html) </span>

<span class="Underline">West spreads the blame widely, but finds a failure of political culture at the heart of the problem. Endlessly engaged in euphemism and rhetorical triangulation, American generals and politicians insist on a story in which war isn't war, and doesn't center on killing. Official doctrine instead declares that professional warriors are engaged in a nation-building strategy "to serve and secure the population," a focus that West argues has "transformed the military into a giant Peace Corps." Few leaders are spared. Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, pronounces that "we can't kill our way to victory" in a counterinsurgency. West's judgment: "That was political drivel." He writes that "the senior ranks were determined to sell counterinsurgency as benevolent nation building," a politically motivated story that promised to minimize domestic opposition. While he speaks poorly of most military leaders, West argues that the "political drivel" started at the top. Former President George W. Bush "proclaimed his messianic belief that all peoples desired freedom, regardless of the cultural context," wading into war without a clear idea of what it would entail. As a result of this unrealistic organizing vision, the Bush administration "did not have a coherent strategy and was riven by internal dissension." The effective prosecution of a war requires that it be organized with achievable objectives that grow from realistic expectations. Here was the first in a long string of failures. </span>

<span class="Underline">B. Nation Building is a strategy doomed to failure – the war in Afghanistan makes us think we are better than the afghani people – masks structural problems – we need to look at how this strategy effects them – withdrawal is key. </span>
<span class="Underline">Cato Institute 09 (November/December, “Should the United States Withdraw from Afghanistan?”, http://www.cato.org/pubs/policy_report/v31n6/cpr31n6-3.html) </span>

<span class="Underline">Over the last few years the violence in Afghanistan has come to be dubbed an "insurgency" that requires the application of a counterinsurgency strategy. This is in keeping with the general zeitgeist of "population-centric counterinsurgency" — or COIN — which has now risen to such prominence in U.S. defense and national security thinking that it borders on theology. COIN has become the overriding theme in discussions about not just present, but future, wars; a cultural movement in military defense circles, and, indeed, a worldview. As Colonel Gian Gentile at West Point has written, it has become the new American way of war. The problem is that counterinsurgency doctrine and theory impede our ability to accurately apprehend the nature and extent of our predicament in Afghanistan and are serving as an awkward stand-in for a rational strategy. The existence of a much ballyhooed manual — the Army's Field Manual 3- 24 — and perceived success in employing its precepts in Iraq are serving to obscure the real costs of the campaign in Afghanistan and provide a dangerous illusion concerning the limits of American power. A central problem with populationcentric COIN theory is that, at heart, it is really nation building. The theory emphasizes the population — meeting its needs, establishing governmental legitimacy, developing economies and so on. Indeed some notable COIN adherents have even emphasized its potential to "change entire societies." So for those of you who argue that there is no strategy in Afghanistan, I would submit to you that, in effect, there is. It is implicit in the logic of COIN, and it is to transform Afghan society. But because the discussion is often wrapped in the more abstruse language of defense wonkery and larded with historical analogies and assumptions, the real strategic trade-offs — the exorbitant costs of building a nation in a country with a history of no real central governance and that ranks 219th in per capita GDP — are glossed over. I would argue that if General McChrystal had released not his counterinsurgency guidance but, instead, his "nation-building guidance," we'd be having a very different discussion. In addition to being the functional equivalent of nation building, there are a number of problems with counterinsurgency theory and doctrine itself. As just one example, a key precept is that we must win over the population. The theory goes that most of the population is unsure whose side they should be on, and we should influence that decision so that they will choose us. But this assumes that a foreign force such as ours could truly understand, never mind penetrate and manipulate the opinions and loyalties of an ancient tribal people. The conceit inherent in this notion goes mostly unremarked upon. By saying we're waging a counterinsurgency campaign in Afghanistan we are committing ourselves to a massive project of nation building in a country that one commentator recently described as "like walking into the Old Testament." It has become cliché to note the administration has yet to articulate a real strategy in Afghanistan. I would submit that counterinsurgency — as an operational concept and set of tactics — has been in effect elevated to the status of a strategy. And calling it a counterinsurgency masks layers of complexity highly relevant to the outcome: tribal rivalry, ethnic conflict, the underlying struggle between tradition and modernity, and doubtless several others. By stripping away the jargon and slogans of counterinsurgency and instead exploring the problem of Afghanistan as it is, including a hard look at our real ends, ways, and means, we would not be "abandoning" Afghanistan as some have suggested. But were we to commit further American blood and treasure before such an analysis, all we would risk abandoning is our reason. </span>

<span class="Underline">B. The war </span>
<span class="Underline">Rather than asking if we should “win the war” we should be asking if the war is worth winning – it’s rooted in a western understanding that causes social engineering and the costs in blood of the afghanis and the costs of civilian casualites outweigh any tactical gains </span>
<span class="Underline">Preble 10 (Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834) </span>

<span class="Underline"> The appropriate question is not whether the war is winnable. If we define victory narrowly, if we are willing to apply the resources necessary to have a reasonable chance of success, and if we have capable and credible partners, then of course the war is winnable. Any war is winnable under these conditions. </span>
<span class="Underline">None of these conditions exist in Afghanistan, however. Our mission is too broadly construed. Our resources are constrained. The patience of the American people has worn thin. And our Afghan partners are unreliable and unpopular with their own people. </span>
<span class="Underline">Given this, the better question is whether the resources that we have already ploughed into Afghanistan, and those that would be required in the medium to long term, could be better spent elsewhere. They most certainly could be. </span>
<span class="Underline">Christopher A. Preble is the director of foreign policy studies at the Cato Institute and the author of The Power Problem: How American Military Dominance Makes Us Less Safe, Less Prosperous and Less Free. </span>
<span class="Underline">More by Christopher A. Preble </span>
<span class="Underline">More important still is the question of whether the mission is essential to American national security interests — a necessary component of a broader strategy to degrade al-Qaeda's capacity for carrying out another terrorist attack in America. Or has it become an interest in itself? (That is, we must win the war because it is the war we are in.) </span>
<span class="Underline">Judging from most of the contemporary commentary, it has become the latter. This explains why our war aims have expanded to the point where they are serving ends unrelated to our core security interests. </span>
<span class="Underline">The current strategy in Afghanistan is flawed. Population centric counterinsurgency (COIN) amounts to large-scale social engineering. The costs in blood and treasure that we would have to incur to accomplish this mission — in addition to what we have already paid — are not outweighed by the benefits, even if we accept the most optimistic estimates as to the likelihood of success. </span>
<span class="Underline">It is also unnecessary. We do not need a long-term, large-scale presence to disrupt al-Qaeda. Indeed, that limited aim has largely been achieved. The physical safe haven that al-Qaeda once enjoyed in Afghanistan has been disrupted, but it could be recreated in dozens of other ungoverned spaces around the world — from Pakistan to Yemen to Somalia. The claim that Afghanistan is uniquely suited to hosting would-be terrorists does not withstand close scrutiny. </span>
<span class="Underline">Nor does fighting terrorism require over 100,000 foreign troops building roads and bridges, digging wells and crafting legal codes. Indeed, our efforts to convince, cajole or compel our ungrateful clients to take ownership of their problems might do more harm than good. Building capacity without destroying the host nation's will to act has always proved difficult. This fact surely annoys most Americans, who have grown tired of fighting other people's wars and building other people's countries. It is little surprise, then, that a war that once enjoyed overwhelming public support has lost its lustre. Polls show that a majority of Americans would like to see the mission drawn to a close. The war is even less popular within the European countries that are contributing troops to the effort. </span>
<span class="Underline">You go to war with the electorate you have, not the electorate you wished you had. But while the public's waning appetite for the war in Afghanistan poses a problem for our current strategy, Hamid Karzai poses a greater one. Advocates of COIN explain ad nauseam that the success of these missions depends upon a reliable local partner, something that Mr Karzai is not. Efforts to build support around his government are likely to fail. An individual who lacks legitimacy in the eyes of his people does not gain from the perception that he is a foreign puppet. Mr Karzai is caught in a Catch-22. His ham-fisted efforts to distance himself from the Obama administration have eroded support for him in America without boosting his standing in Afghanistan. </span>
<span class="Underline">America and its allies must narrow their focus in Afghanistan. Rather than asking if the war is winnable, we should ask instead if the war is worth winning. And we should look for alternative approaches that do not require us to transform what is a deeply divided, poverty stricken, tribal-based society into a self-sufficient, cohesive and stable electoral democracy. </span>
<span class="Underline">If we start from the proposition that victory is all that matters, we are setting ourselves up for ruin. We can expect an endless series of calls to plough still more resources — more troops, more civilian experts and more money, much more money — into Afghanistan. Such demands demonstrate a profound misunderstanding of the public's tolerance for an open-ended mission with ill-defined goals. </span>
<span class="Underline">More importantly, a disdain for a focused strategy that balances ends, ways and means betrays an inability to think strategically about the range of challenges facing America today. After having already spent more than eight and a half years in Afghanistan, pursuing a win-at-all-costs strategy only weakens our ability to deal with other security challenges elsewhere in the world. </span>

<span class="Underline">C. Savior Syndrome </span>
<span class="Underline">Presence in Afghanistan creates the assumption that the West is somehow “better” than the Afghans, and thus more capable of determining the correct action to take; this discourages effective policy and promotes colonialism to the detriment of Afghan stability </span>
<span class="Underline">Crowe 7 </span>
<span class="Underline">(L. A. Crowe, Researcher, York Centre for International and Security Studies, York University, 2007, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’” http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf) </span>

<span class="Underline">These elements of oppositional binaries is closely related to the second element: contemporary discourse has developed from and further perpetuates a particular ideology that emmanates from a neo-liberal capitalist and imperial agenda that is founded upon neo-colonialist attitudes and assumptions. “The US campaign to ‘fight terrorism’, initiated after September 11th” explains Nahla Abdo “has crystallized all the ideological underpinnings of colonial and imperial policies towards the constructed ‘other’.”82 This emerges in the “heroism” myth mentioned above; for example, Debrix explains how narratives around humanitarianism serve an ideological purpose in that it “contributes to the reinforcement of neoliberal policies in ‘pathological’ regions of the international landscape.83 It also emerges in the militarization myth, insofar as neoliberal globalisation relies on the institutionalization of neo-colonialism and the commodification and (re)colonization of labor via militarized strategies of imperial politics. That is, as Agathangelou and Ling point out, “Neoliberal economics enables globalized militarization”.84 Embedded in this normalization of neo-colonial frames are the elements of linearity and thus assumed rationality of reasoning in the West. As Canada stepped up its role in direct combat operations (which included an increase of combat troops, fighter jets, and tanks with long-range firing capacities85), Stephen Harper appealed to troop morale on the ground in Afghanistan, stating: “Canada and the international community are determined to take a failed state and create a "democratic, prosperous and modern country."86 (my italics) Proposed solutions to the conflict(s) in Afghanistan have been framed and justified not only as ‘saving backwards Afghanistan’ but also as generously bringing it into the modern, capitalist, neoliberal age. Moreover, this element represents an continuity of colonial power, presenting the one correct truth or resolution, emmanating from the ‘objective gaze’ of the ‘problem-solving’ Western world. Representations of Afghanistan present Western voices as the authority and the potential progress such authority can bring to the ‘East’ as naturally desirable. This ‘rationality’ also presumes an inherent value of Western methodology (including statistical analysis, quantification of data, etc) and devalues alternative epistemologies including those of the Afghan people. This is problematic for several reasons: 1) It forecloses and discourages thinking “outside the box” and instead relies upon the “master’s tools” which include violent military force, the installation of a democratic regime, peacekeeping, and reconstruction and foreign aid – alternative strategies are deemed “radical”, “unworkable”, and “anti-American”; 2) it prioritizes numbers and statitistics over lived experiences. By relying on tallies of deaths, percetages of voters, and numbers of insurgents for example, the experiences of those living in the region are obfuscated and devalued, and; 3)it reproduces a colonial hierarchy of knowledge production. Old colonial narratives of have re-surfaced with renewed vigor in the case of Afghanistan is contingent on and mutually reinforced by opposing narratives of a ‘civilized’ and ‘developed’ ‘West’. For example: “Consider the language which is being used…Calling the perpetrators evildoers, irrational, calling them the forces of darkness, uncivilized, intent on destroying civilization, intent on destroying democracy. They hate freedom, we are told. Every person of colour, and I would want to say also every Aboriginal person, will recognize that language. The language of us versus them, of civilization versus the forces of darkness, this language is rooted in the colonial legacy.”87 This colonizer/colonized dichotomy is key to the civilisational justification the US administration pursues (“We wage war to save civilization itself”88) which, as Agathangelou and Ling explain, is motivated by a constructed medieval evil that threatens American freedom and democracy, the apotheosis of modern civilization, and therefore must be disciplined/civilized. In his Speech to Congress on September 21, 2001, Bush portrays the irrational Other as Evil and retributive seeking to destroy the ‘developed, ‘secure’ ‘prosperous’ and ‘civilized’ free world: These terrorists kill not merely to end lives, but to disrupt and end a way of life…Al Qaeda is to terror what the mafia is to crime. But its goal is not making money; its goal is remaking the world, and imposing its radical beliefs on people everywhere.”89 This production of othering and re-institutionalization of colonial discourse has been enabled by and facilitated ‘culture clash’ explanations.90 The danger of such theories, warns Razack, lies not only in their decontextualization and dehistoricization, but also on its reliance on the Enlightenment narrative and notions of European moral superiority that justify the use of force. This is evident in the unproblematic way in which outside forces have assumed a right of interference in the region spanning from the 18th century when imperial powers demarcated the Durrand Line (which created a border between British India and Afghanistan with the goal of making Afghanistan an effective ‘buffer state’for British Imperial interests91) to the American intervention that began in the Cold War, followed by the Soviets in the 1980’s and the Americans, Canadians and British today. In fact, The West’s practical engagement in Afghanistan reveals how it has served to reporoduce this neo-colonial myth as well as the complexities and paradoxes which simultaneously de-stabilize that myth. During the cold war, the Soviet and the Americans used Afghanistan as the battleground for power, choosing to sponsor and condemn various regimes as they saw fit; this history of foreign engagement contributed to state fragmentation, underdevelopment, and the self-sustaining war-economy that persist today. An example of this is the use of rentier incomes during the early 1900’s that were used as a means of control and coercion.92 </span>


<span class="Underline">The discourse of wanting to to “save” Afghanistan with nationbuilding, reinforces the paternalism and neo-colonialism behind US actions </span>
<span class="Underline">Crowe 7 </span>
<span class="Underline">(L. A. Crowe, Researcher, York Centre for International and Security Studies, York University, 2007, “The “Fuzzy Dream”: Discourse, Historical myths, and Militarized (in)Security - Interrogating dangerous myths of Afghanistan and the ‘West’” http://archive.sgir.eu/uploads/Crowe-loricrowe.pdf) </span>

<span class="Underline">The ‘heroism’ narrative can be called by several names: the ‘saviour syndrome’, “mediatically generated” or “hybrid techno-medical” humanitarianism58, “foreign aid”, “humanitarian intervention”, etc. This narrative constructs foreign engagement in a region as spectacle and as prized commodities to be admired and ‘sold’ to the public; it constructs the West as ‘saviours’ and the ‘Other’, in this case Afghanistan, as the victim in need of saving, accomplished through images and tales of passion and fervour that often pathologize the other and valorize the Western interveener. When the US, with the support of the UN, bombed Afghanistan in 2001in response to the events of September 11th, the mission was entitled “Operation Enduring Freedom”. Today, as reconstruction and ‘peace-building’ efforts are underway in Afghanistan in tandem with military operations, political conversations and media productions are saturated with calls to “win the hearts and minds” of the people of Afghanistan and of the necessary and benevolent role the West must play in instilling ‘freedom’, ‘justice’ and ‘democracy’ in the war-torn and poverty stricken region. Debrix, offers an analysis of what he calls “the global humanitarian spectacle” to demonstrate how medical and humanitarian NGO’s simulate “heroism, sentiment, and compassion”; medical catastrophes and civil conflicts, he explains, have indeed become prized commodities for globalizing neoliberal policies of Western states and international organizations to sell to ‘myth readers’: “They give Western states and the UN the opportunity to put their liberal humanistic policies into practice, while, for Western media, humanitarianism simply sells”.59 There are several repercusions of this myth, explains Debrix. First, this has resulted in real humanitarian and moral issues being overlooked; Second, images are being purged of their content. Myth has thus becoming the very real enemy of true humanitarianism; that is, we’ve become so inundates with superhero mythologization of real world events that the embedded paternalism and unrealistic goals go unnoticed.60 Additionally, this narrative reinforces a victimology of the ‘Other’ and in fact capitalises on it, while simultaneously hiding the paternalistic and neo-colonialist ideologies in humanitarian garb. The role of the media and consciously generated and disseminated images is particularly pronounced here, as passion and spectacle are valued in the commodification of images over content and history. Jean Baudrillard states “There is no possible distinction, at the level of images and information, between the spectacular and the symbolic, no possible distinction between the ‘crime’ and the crackdown”.61 </span>

<span class="Underline">E. Stability - </span>
<span class="Underline">Striving for Afghan stability is a metaphor for striving for washnigton domination of the Afghinais – creates a system of biopolitics </span>
<span class="Underline">Engelhardt, 09 (Tom Engelhardt, co-founder of the American Empire Project and contributor to Foreign Policy In Focus, runs the Nation Institute's TomDispatch.com, 3/1/09 Foreign Policy In Focus, “The Imperial Unconscious” Google) </span>

<span class="Underline">Here, according to Bloomberg News, is part of Secretary of Defense Robert Gates’s recent testimony on the Afghan War before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee: U.S. goals in Afghanistan must be 'modest, realistic,' and 'above all, there must be an Afghan face on this war,' Gates said. 'The Afghan people must believe this is their war and we are there to help them. If they think we are there for our own purposes, then we will go the way of every other foreign army that has been in Afghanistan. Now, in our world, a statement like this seems so obvious, so reasonable as to be beyond comment. And yet, stop a moment and think about this part of it: “There must be an Afghan face on this war.” U.S. military and civilian officials used an equivalent phrase in 2005-2006 when things were going really, really wrong in Iraq. It was then commonplace — and no less unremarked upon — for them to urgently suggest that an “Iraqi face” be put on events there. Evidently back in vogue for a different war, the phrase is revelatory — and oddly blunt. As an image, there’s really only one way to understand it (not that anyone here stops to do so). After all, what does it mean to “put a face” on something that assumedly already has a face? In this case, it has to mean putting an Afghan mask over what we know to be the actual “face” of the Afghan War — ours — a foreign face that men like Gates recognize, quite correctly, is not the one most Afghans want to see. It’s hardly surprising that the Secretary of Defense would pick up such a phrase, part of Washington’s everyday arsenal of words and images when it comes to geopolitics, power, and war. And yet, make no mistake, this is Empire-speak, American-style. It’s the language — behind which lies a deeper structure of argument and thought — that is essential to Washington’s vision of itself as a planet-straddling goliath. Think of that “Afghan face” mask, in fact, as part of the flotsam and jetsam that regularly bubbles up from the American imperial unconscious. Of course, words create realities even though such language, in all its strangeness, essentially passes unnoticed here. Largely uncommented upon, it helps normalize American practices in the world, comfortably shielding us from certain global realities; but it also has the potential to blind us to those realities, which, in perilous times, can be dangerous indeed. So let’s consider just a few entries in what might be thought of as The Dictionary of American Empire-Speak. </span>

<span class="Underline">Impacts – </span>
<span class="Underline">A. Militarism </span>
<span class="Underline">Focus on the war as an isolated event produces a politics of crises control that attempts to manage outbreaks of violence from flashpoint to flashpoint. This mode of being reproduces militarism and perpetuates the structural violence of peacetime militarism </span>
<span class="Underline">Cuomo, 96 [Chris Cuomo, Ph.D., 1992, University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Philosophy University of Cincinnati Hypatia Fall 1996.Vol.11, Iss. 4; pg. 30] </span>
<span class="Underline"> In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin Schott introduces some of the ways in which war is currently best seen not as an event but as a presence (Schott 1995). Schott argues that postmodern understandings of persons, states, and politics, as well as the high-tech nature of much contemporary warfare and the preponderance of civil and nationalist wars, render an eventbased conception of war inadequate, especially insofar as gender is taken into account. In this essay, I will expand upon her argument by showing that accounts of war that only focus on events are impoverished in a number of ways, and therefore feminist consideration of the political, ethical, and ontological dimensions of war and the possibilities for resistance demand a much more complicated approach. I take Schott's characterization of war as presence as a point of departure, though I am not committed to the idea that the constancy of militarism, the fact of its omnipresence in human experience, and the paucity of an event-based account of war are exclusive to contemporary postmodern or postcolonial circumstances.(1) Theory that does not investigate or even notice the omnipresence of militarism cannot represent or address the depth and specificity of the everyday effects of militarism on women, on people living in occupied territories, on members of military institutions, and on the environment. These effects are relevant to feminists in a number of ways because military practices and institutions help construct gendered and national identity, and because they justify the destruction of natural nonhuman entities and communities during peacetime. Lack of attention to these aspects of the business of making or preventing military violence in an extremely technologized world results in theory that cannot accommodate the connections among the constant presence of militarism, declared wars, and other closely related social phenomena, such as nationalistic glorifications of motherhood, media violence, and current ideological gravitations to military solutions for social problems. Ethical approaches that do not attend to the ways in which warfare and military practices are woven into the very fabric of life in twenty-first century technological states lead to crisis-based politics and analyses. For any feminism that aims to resist oppression and create alternative social and political options, crisis-based ethics and politics are problematic because they distract attention from the need for sustained resistance to the enmeshed, omnipresent systems of domination and oppression that so often function as givens in most people's lives. Neglecting the omnipresence of militarism allows the false belief that the absence of declared armed conflicts is peace, the polar opposite of war. It is particularly easy for those whose lives are shaped by the safety of privilege, and who do not regularly encounter the realities of militarism, to maintain this false belief. The belief that militarism is an ethical, political concern only regarding armed conflict, creates forms of resistance to militarism that are merely exercises in crisis control. Antiwar resistance is then mobilized when the "real" violence finally occurs, or when the stability of privilege is directly threatened, and at that point it is difficult not to respond in ways that make resisters drop all other political priorities. Crisis-driven attention to declarations of war might actually keep resisters complacent about and complicitous in the general presence of global militarism. Seeing war as necessarily embedded in constant military presence draws attention to the fact that horrific, state-sponsored violence is happening nearly all over, all of the time, and that it is perpetrated by military institutions and other militaristic agents of the state. Moving away from crisis-driven politics and ontologies concerning war and military violence also enables consideration of relationships among seemingly disparate phenomena, and therefore can shape more nuanced theoretical and practical forms of resistance. For example, investigating the ways in which war is part of a presence allows consideration of the relationships among the events of war and the following: how militarism is a foundational trope in the social and political imagination; how the pervasive presence and symbolism of soldiers/warriors/patriots shape meanings of gender; the ways in which threats of state-sponsored violence are a sometimes invisible/sometimes bold agent of racism, nationalism, and corporate interests; the fact that vast numbers of communities, cities, and nations are currently in the midst of excruciatingly violent circumstances. It also provides a lens for considering the relationships among the various kinds of violence that get labeled "war." Given current American obsessions with nationalism, guns, and militias, and growing hunger for the death penalty, prisons, and a more powerful police state, one cannot underestimate the need for philosophical and political attention to connections among phenomena like the "war on drugs," the "war on crime," and other state-funded militaristic campaigns. I propose that the constancy of militarism and its effects on social reality be reintroduced as a crucial locus of contemporary feminist attentions, and that feminists emphasize how wars are eruptions and manifestations of omnipresent militarism that is a product and tool of multiply oppressive, corporate, technocratic states.(2) Feminists should be particularly interested in making this shift because it better allows consideration of the effects of war and militarism on women, subjugated peoples, and environments. While giving attention to the constancy of militarism in contemporary life we need not neglect the importance of addressing the specific qualities of direct, large-scale, declared military conflicts. But the dramatic nature of declared, large-scale conflicts should not obfuscate the ways in which military violence pervades most societies in increasingly technologically sophisticated ways and the significance of military institutions and everyday practices in shaping reality. Philosophical discussions that focus only on the ethics of declaring and fighting wars miss these connections, and also miss the ways in which even declared military conflicts are often experienced as omnipresent horrors. These approaches also leave unquestioned tendencies to suspend or distort moral judgement in the face of what appears to be the inevitability of war and militarism. </span>

<span class="Underline">B. Cultural survival is a D-Rule – guarantees extinction </span>
<span class="Underline">Deneen 2008 (Patrick J. , Associate Professor of Government and Markos and Eleni Tsakopoulos-Kounalakis Chair in Hellenic Studies at Georgetown University, Director of the Tocqueville Forum on the Roots of American Democracy, “Technology, Culture, and Virtue," The New Atlantis, Number 21, Summer, http://www.thenewatlantis.com/publications/technology-culture-and-virtue) </span>
<span class="Underline">This basic and extraordinary fact about human beings means another thing: we survive and flourish not by instinct, but by behavior that is learned, preserved, and transmitted. Unlike all other species that walk upon, fly above, or burrow below the earth, we are almost wholly instinct-deficient: left to our own devices without even our most basic technological achievements, most of us couldn’t survive for even several weeks. Lacking agricultural knowledge and the tools used to hunt, we would starve, if first we didn’t freeze or become a modest meal for a wild beast. Lest our race be forced to begin anew discovering the most basic activities necessary for our survival—how to cultivate crops, how to build shelters, how to communicate; not to mention our more peculiar achievements, such as how to bake bread, how to make cheese, how to brew beer—we transmit this knowledge through institutions and traditions. Indeed, there can be little doubt that the greatest technology of human origin and making is culture itself. Culture is the repository of memory and the medium of transmission of human accomplishment as well as human failings. It is the conduit of past to future, the vessel of memory of countless generations of the past to countless generations in the future, an inheritance and a memorial. The Greeks understood this well, counting the nine muses as the primary goddesses of culture, and the daughters of Mnemosyne, or Memory. Culture is indeed the offspring of memory, the collective wisdom of humanity that allows us not merely to survive, but to flourish—essentially, to become human. </span>


<span class="Underline">C. Biopower - The ability of the state to sacrifice entire populations in the name of self-preservation justifies ongoing wars and violence that will culminate in extinction </span>
<span class="Underline">Foucault 84 (THE FOUCAULT READER p. 259-260.) </span>
<span class="Underline">Since the classical age, the West has undergone a very profound transformation of these mechanisms of power. “Deduction” has tended to be no longer the major form of power but merely one element among others, working to incite, reinforce, control, monitor, optimize, and organize the forces under it: a power bent on generating forces, making them grow, and ordering them, rather than one dedicated to impeding them, making them submit, or destroying them. There has been a parallel shift in the right of death or at least a tendency to align itself with the exigencies of the life-administering power and to define itself accordingly. This death that was based on the right of the sovereign is now manifested as simply the reverse of the right of the social body to ensure, maintain, or develop its life. Yet wars were never as bloody as they have been since the nineteenth century, and all things being equal, never before did regimes visit such holocausts on their own populations. But this formidable power of death – and this is perhaps what accounts for part of its force and the cynicism with which it has so greatly expanded its limits – now presents itself as the counterpart of a power that exerts a positive influence on life, subjecting it to precise controls and comprehensive regulations. Wars are no longer waged in the name of a sovereign who must be defended; they are waged on behalf of the existence of everyone; entire populations are mobilized for the purpose of wholesale slaughter in the name of life necessity: massacres have become vital. It is as managers of life and survival, of bodies and the race, that so many regimes have been able to wage so many wars, causing so many to be killed. And through a turn that closes the circle, as the technology of wars has caused them to tend increasingly toward all-out destruction, the decision that initiates them and the one that terminates them are in fact increasingly informed by the naked question of survival. The atomic situation is now at the end point of this process: the power to expose a whole population to death is the underside of the power to guarantee an individual’s continued existence. The principle underlying the tactics of battle – that one has to be capable of killing in order to go on living – has become the principle that defines the strategy of states. But the existence in question is no longer the juridical existence of sovereignty; at stake is the biological existence of a population. If genocide is indeed the dream of modern powers, this is not because of a recent return of the ancient right to kill; it is because power is situated and exercised at the level of life, the species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population. </span>



<span class="Underline">Contention 3 is Flipping the COIN </span>

<span class="Underline">First, U.S. military presence is devastating the people of Afghanistan—concerns about the harms of withdrawal are terminally non-unique. </span>
<span class="Underline">The South Asia Solidarity Initiative 2010( an organization based the United States that is in solidarity with progressive social movements and democratic politics in South Asia, et al., “'What Happens if We Stay in Afghanistan': A Response to TIME Magazine,” Common Dreams, August 14th, Available Online at http://www.commondreams.org/view/2010/08/14-4, Accessed 08-30-2010) </span>

<span class="Underline">In its nine long years, the U.S.-led occupation of Afghanistan has done nothing to improve the conditions for people in Afghanistan, especially for women. As the classified documents recently leaked by WikiLeaks.org corroborate, the coalition forces have been killing hundreds of civilians in unreported incidents. According to the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, the 2009 civilian death toll, close to 2,412 civilian deaths, was the highest of any year since the fall of the Taliban regime in 2001, and an increase of 24% from 2008. There has been a general increase in violence and civilian deaths because of occupation. A Human Rights Watch Press Alert in 2005, stated that up to 60% of law makers in the lower house of Afghanistan's newly elected parliament are directly or indirectly connected to human rights abuses. By 2009, the U.N. human development index ranked Afghanistan 181 out of 182 countries. The maternal mortality rate in Afghanistan reveals the highest ever documented. Over the past decade, the immensely corrupt, U.S.-backed Afghan regime led by Hamid Karzai has passed and maintained numerous misogynist laws, including the one that put Aisha in jail after she fled from her in-laws. For the last decade, the occupying forces of the U.S. and its NATO allies have nourished warlords and supported a corrupt government, leading many to join the Taliban and increasing their influence across Afghanistan. Increased civilian deaths, a fundamentalist resurgence, and deadly bombing raids have led to a devastated country and a Taliban stronger than ever before. TIME's claim to "illuminate what is actually happening on the ground" falsely equates the last decade of occupation with progress. The occupation has not and will not bring democracy to Afghanistan, nor will it bring liberation to Afghan women. Instead, it has exacerbated deep-seated corruption in the government, the widespread abuse of women's rights and human rights by fundamentalists, including Karzai's allies, and stymied critical infrastructure development in the country. The question should not be "what happens if we leave Afghanistan," the question should be "what happened when we invaded Afghanistan" and "what happens if we stay in Afghanistan." </span>

<span class="Underline">Second, ending the war is the only ethical option—every day that the war continues guarantees violence and suffering. </span>
<span class="Underline">David Swanson, peace activist and organizer, holds an M.A. in philosophy from the University of Virginia, served as press secretary for Dennis Kucinich's 2004 presidential campaign, former communications coordinator for the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, 02-23-2011 (“Humanitarian War vs. Humanity,” CounterPunch, February 23rd, Available Online at http://www.counterpunch.org/swanson02232011.html, Accessed 02-23-2011) </span>

<span class="Underline">But ending wars and occupations is necessary and just, not reckless and cruel. And it need not amount to "abandonment" of the world. Our elected officials find it hard to believe, but there are ways other than war of relating to people and governments. When a petty crime is underway, our top priority is to stop it, after which we look into ways of setting things right, including deterring future crimes of the same sort and repairing the damage. When the largest crime we know of is underway, we do not need to be as slow about ending it as possible. We need to end it immediately. That is the kindest thing we can do for the people of the country we are at war with. We owe them that favor above all others. We know their nation may have problems when our soldiers leave, and that we are to blame for some of those problems. But we also know that they will have no hope of good lives as long as the occupation continues. RAWA's position on the occupation of Afghanistan is that the post-occupation period will be worse the longer the occupation continues. So, the first priority is to immediately end the war. War kills people, and there is nothing worse. As we will see in chapter eight, war primarily kills civilians, although the value of the military- civilian distinction seems limited. If another nation occupied the United States, surely we would not approve of killing those Americans who fought back and thereby lost their status as civilians. War kills children, above all, and horrifically traumatizes many of the children it does not kill or maim. This is not exactly news, yet it must be constantly relearned as a corrective to frequent claims that wars have been sanitized and bombs made "smart" enough to kill only the people who really need killing. </span>

<span class="Underline">Fourth – Violence o/w nuclear war </span>
<span class="Underline">Structural violence outweighs – focus on nuclear impacts destroys peace movements and causes paralysis and oppression – nuke war won’t cause extinction – their authors are biased hacks trying to preserve their power through a politics of extinction </span>
<span class="Underline">Martin, 84 [Dr Brian Martin is a physicist whose research interests include stratospheric modeling. He is a research associate in the Dept. of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Australian National University, and a member of SANA 5-16-84 http://www.uow.edu.au/arts/sts/bmartin/pubs/84sana1.html] </span>

<span class="Underline">By the 1950s, a large number of people had come to believe that the killing of much or all of the world's population would result from global nuclear war. This idea was promoted by the peace movement, among which the idea of 'overkill' - in the sense that nuclear arsenals could kill everyone on earth several times over - became an article of faith. Yet in spite of the widespread belief in nuclear extinction, there was almost no scientific support for such a possibility. The scenario of the book and movie On the Beach,[2] with fallout clouds gradually enveloping the earth and wiping out all life, was and is fiction. The scientific evidence is that fallout would only kill people who are immediately downwind of surface nuclear explosions and who are heavily exposed during the first few days. Global fallout has no potential for causing massive immediate death (though it could cause up to millions of cancers worldwide over many decades).[3] In spite of the lack of evidence, large sections of the peace movement have left unaddressed the question of whether nuclear war inevitably means global extinction. The next effect to which beliefs in nuclear extinction were attached was ozone depletion. Beginning in the mid-1970s, scares about stratospheric ozone developed, culminating in 1982 in the release of Jonathan Schell's book The Fate of the Earth.[4] Schell painted a picture of human annihilation from nuclear war based almost entirely on effects from increased ultraviolet light at the earth's surface due to ozone reductions caused by nuclear explosions. Schell's book was greeted with adulation rarely observed in any field. Yet by the time the book was published, the scientific basis for ozone-based nuclear extinction had almost entirely evaporated. The ongoing switch by the military forces of the United States and the Soviet Union from multi-megatonne nuclear weapons to larger numbers of smaller weapons means that the effect on ozone from even the largest nuclear war is unlikely to lead to any major effect on human population levels, and extinction from ozone reductions is virtually out of the question.[3] The latest stimulus for doomsday beliefs is 'nuclear winter': the blocking of sunlight from dust raised by nuclear explosions and smoke from fires ignited by nuclear attacks. This would result in a few months of darkness and lowered temperatures, mainly in the northern mid-latitudes.[5] The effects could be quite significant, perhaps causing the deaths of up to several hundred million more people than would die from the immediate effects of blast, heat and radiation. But the evidence, so far, seems to provide little basis for beliefs in nuclear extinction. The impact of nuclear winter on populations nearer the equator, such as in India, does not seem likely to be significant. The most serious possibilities would result from major ecological destruction, but this remains speculative at present. As in the previous doomsday scenarios, antiwar scientists and peace movements have taken up the crusading torch of extinction politics. Few doubts have been voiced about the evidence about nuclear winter or the politics of promoting beliefs in nuclear extinction. Opponents of war, including scientists, have often exaggerated the effects of nuclear war and emphasized worst cases. Schell continually bends evidence to give the worst impression. For example, he implies that a nuclear attack is inevitably followed by a firestorm or conflagration. He invariably gives the maximum time for people having to remain in shelters from fallout. And he takes a pessimistic view of the potential for ecological resilience to radiation exposure and for human resourcefulness in a crisis. Similarly, in several of the scientific studies of nuclear winter, I have noticed a strong tendency to focus on worst cases and to avoid examination of ways to overcome the effects. For example, no one seems to have looked at possibilities for migration to coastal areas away from the freezing continental temperatures or looked at people changing their diets away from grain-fed beef to direct consumption of the grain, thereby greatly extending reserves of food. Nuclear doomsdayism should be of concern because of its effect on the political strategy and effectiveness of the peace movement. While beliefs in nuclear extinction may stimulate some people into antiwar action, it may discourage others by fostering resignation. Furthermore, some peace movement activities may be inhibited because they allegedly threaten the delicate balance of state terror. The irony here is that there should be no need to exaggerate the effects of nuclear war, since, even well short of extinction, the consequences would be sufficiently devastating to justify the greatest efforts against it. The effect of extinction politics is apparent in responses to the concept of limited nuclear war. Antiwar activists, quite justifiably, have attacked military planning and apologetics for limited nuclear war in which the effects are minimized in order to make them more acceptable. But opposition to military planning often has led antiwar activists to refuse to acknowledge the possibility that nuclear war could be 'limited' in the sense that less than total annihilation could result. A 'limited' nuclear war with 100 million deaths is certainly possible, but the peace movement has not seriously examined the political implications of such a war. Yet even the smallest of nuclear wars could have enormous political consequences, for which the peace movement is totally unprepared.[6] The peace movement also has denigrated the value of civil defence, apparently, in part, because a realistic examination of civil defence would undermine beliefs about total annihilation. The many ways in which the effects of nuclear war are exaggerated and worst cases emphasized can be explained as the result of a presupposition by antiwar scientists and activists that their political aims will be fulfilled when people are convinced that there is a good chance of total disaster from nuclear war.[7] There are quite a number of reasons why people may find a belief in extinction from nuclear war to be attractive.[8] Here I will only briefly comment on a few factors. The first is an implicit Western chauvinism The effects of global nuclear war would mainly hit the population of the United States, Europe and the Soviet Union. This is quite unlike the pattern of other major ongoing human disasters of starvation, disease, poverty and political repression which mainly affect the poor, nonwhite populations of the Third World. The gospel of nuclear extinction can be seen as a way by which a problem for the rich white Western societies is claimed to be a problem for all the world. Symptomatic of this orientation is the belief that, without Western aid and trade, the economies and populations of the Third World would face disaster. But this is only Western self-centredness. Actually, Third World populations would in many ways be better off without the West: the pressure to grow cash crops of sugar, tobacco and so on would be reduced, and we would no longer witness fresh fish being airfreighted from Bangladesh to Europe. A related factor linked with nuclear extinctionism is a belief that nuclear war is the most pressing issue facing humans. I disagree, both morally and politically, with the stance that preventing nuclear war has become the most important social issue for all humans. Surely, in the Third World, concern over the actuality of massive suffering and millions of deaths resulting from poverty and exploitation can justifiably take precedence over the possibility of a similar death toll from nuclear war. Nuclear war may be the greatest threat to the collective lives of those in the rich, white Western societies but, for the poor, nonwhite Third World peoples, other issues are more pressing. In political terms, to give precedence to nuclear war as an issue is to assume that nuclear war can be overcome in isolation from changes in major social institutions, including the state, capitalism, state socialism and patriarchy. If war is deeply embedded in such structures - as I would argue[9] - then to try to prevent war without making common cause with other social movements will not be successful politically. This means that the antiwar movement needs to link its strategy and practice with other movements such as the feminist movement, the workers' control movement and the environmental movement. A focus on nuclear extinction also encourages a focus on appealing to elites as the means to stop nuclear war, since there seems no other means for quickly overcoming the danger. For example, Carl Sagan, at the end of an article about nuclear winter in a popular magazine, advocates writing letters to the presidents of the United States and of the Soviet Union.[10] But if war has deep institutional roots, then appealing to elites has no chance of success. This has been amply illustrated by the continual failure of disarmament negotiations and appeals to elites over the past several decades. </span>


<span class="Underline">Finally, Presumption should be strongly affirmative—requiring us to prove a negative turns intervention into a self-fulfilling prophecy with disastrous consequences. </span>
<span class="Underline">Finel, 09-21-2010 (Bernard Associate Professor of National Security Strategy at the National War College, former Senior Fellow at the American Security Project—a non-partisan think tank—and Executive Director of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, holds a B.A. in International Relations from Tufts University and an M.A. and Ph.D. in International Relations from Georgetown University, “Ultimately, Primacy Is Its Own Justification,” The Progressive Realist, September 21st, Available Online at http://progressiverealist.org/blogpost/ultimately-primacy-its-own-justification, Accessed 10-01-2010) </span>
<span class="Underline">Problem is, Congo can’t handle the task of taking down the LRA. With just 300 miles of paved roads in the whole country and no air force to speak of, the Congolese military can’t move fast enough to keep up with the LRA. Besides, the Congolese army has been cobbled together from various former rebel groups plus troops inherited from the country’s previous regime. “There is very little discipline,” Marcel Stoessel, Congo director for the aid group Oxfam U.K., said of the Congolese army. To beat the LRA, Congo needs help from an army adept at locating elusive groups in rough terrain, and an air force trained to speed small, lethal teams to the battle zone. Sound like any military we know? Over at Fabius Maximus, FM responds: It requires no rebuttal, as Axe barely bothers to state reasons. Injustice! Minerals! Easy victory! Perhaps he assumes that the American public has become so well-trained that little more than a dog whistle suffices, leading us to war. Too bad we no longer have many conservatives, folks advocating small government and only necessary foreign wars. It also reminds me of recent news coming out of Yemen about our increased military assistance that country. This story prompted a wonderful outburst from Gulliver at Ink Spots: A dude tried to get on an airplane in the U.S. with a bomb in his pants, and this is causing confusion about whether to give a country on the other side of the planet ONE POINT TWO BILLION DOLLARS in helos, patrol boats, and small arms. Let’s just reflect for a second on the stupidity of this. Yes, let’s. The fundamental problem for the United States is that primacy has become its own justification. Because we are everywhere, threats anywhere engage our interests requiring us… to be everywhere. Foreign interventions — whether military, political, diplomatic, or economic — require no further justification in terms of national interest. They are assumed to be justified by virtue of our global presence. It is the ultimate self-licking ice cream cone. Because we perceive ourselves as already committed, we then engage in a process of rationalization of our interventionist impulse. Unfortunately this is an easy task. Since the world is messy, it is pretty easy to construct a geopolitical, economic, humanitarian, or reputational justication for acting everywhere and anywhere. Something bad (or potentially bad) is happening everywhere, and something bad happening anywhere is assumed to implicate American interests sufficiently to justify intervention. As a result, we don’t use our power only where such interventions are required, but we use it instead everywhere except when a compelling argument against intervention exists. American foreign policy begins with the presumption of intervention, and those of us arguing for restraint are required to make an affirmative case for it. And not only must restraint make an affirmative case, it must make a case that is compelling beyond the shadow of a doubt. Successfully advocating restraint often requires, in short, proving a negative — that nothing bad will happens if we fail to act. In Afghanistan, for instance, even the possibility that a terrorist attack might be planned there in the future is justification for an annual expenditure of $100 billion. What is fascinating about something like Congo is that the case against is so strong that restraint is still likely to hold. And yet, this is not the first bite at this apple. Last year, the Washington Post decided to give Mike O’Hanlon space to advocate: Problems like Congo, Darfur and Somalia tend to get solved only with U.S. leadership. And the United States cannot truly lead on this issue while resisting any role for its own ground forces. It is time to recognize the contradiction of pretending otherwise and get on with a solution. As Fabius Maximus points out: From the FM career counseling service for aspiring geopolitical experts: Advocate war. Always. Everywhere. Any war is a good war, no matter how preposterous its justification. That is surprisingly good advice. There seems to be no downside. There are no negative consequences for recommending an endless series of interventions. Instead, you rapidly develop the reputation as a forward-thinker, a hard-nosed analyst who recongizes how dangerous the world is. Just like the middle manager buying IBM, no one in Washington has ever been fired to recommending primacy. Heck, not only do you not get fired, it is one of the best ways to get promoted. And yet, back in the real world, the costs of these choices are devastating. 5,000 dead American servicemen since 9/11. Over 30,000 wounded, many permanently maimed. $1 trillion in additional debt to pass on to future generations. American involvement in the domestic politics of dozens of nations in ways to breed resentment and will create blowback risks for a generation. </span>

<span class="Underline">Structural violence is deaths masked by the system – obligation to solve first </span>
<span class="Underline">Zuleuta, 04 [Felicity de Zuleuta, MD Cambridge, Psychotherapist, Attachment and Human Survival ed Green and Scholes, 2004] </span>
<span class="Underline">It is clear that childhood experiences of violence in the family produce future patterns of violent behaviour, domestically and in the wider social setting. Furthermore, dominant social values, for example, in popular understandings of how we should raise our children, may actually contribute to the likelihood of attachment failures. So, what, then, can we understand about the social context of the family and the role of our culture and our legal and economic systems in propagating or reducing violence? It could be said that current policies and laws continue to prop up a culture of abuse and conflict within the family. And, our social norms and expectations do little to reduce levels of family violence. Physical violence against wives was seen as necessary for the "well-being" of women until well into the twentieth century. In 1821, a judge called Mr Justice Brook declared that "If a man beat an outlaw, a traitor, a pagan, a villain or his wife, it is dispunishable" (i.e., it is no offence in law. Such a statement was based on the premise that men should rule over those seen as less human which, to paraphrase the judge, included criminals, delinquents, non Christians, and women. The stage was thereby set for the "dehumanization" of the "other" and this, as will become clearer later on, has been an essential requirement for the propagation of violence in society. As long as those who govern want to retain their power over others, they need to convince those they govern that some people are less human and inferior to themselves. This legitimizes the use and abuse of certain members of society, starting with women. As long as gender inequality is intrinsic to the society, so is dehumanization of the "other". These inequalities, however, like all other inequalities, are injurious to all parties concerned. For example, even though men still do have the upper hand as a result of relatively better socio-economic conditions, men and women suffer in the process. This is because, in order to be a male, the man must sacrifice his emotional identification with his first love, his mother. To help him achieve this, feminine qualities must be culturally devalued and women must be seen as potentially bad or worthless. In other words, women must be dehumanized, too. This can result in men being less able to empathize with women and turning to sex in order to boost their masculinity (Stoller, 1975). In male-dominated societies, women are pressured to play the part required of them in order to preserve the male's sense of masculinity. As a result, they deny their own needs and are more likely to turn their anger against themselves and their children. Thus, women tend to be the victims, at least in relation to men, and may then themselves become offenders against their own children (Herman, 1992). One study in the USA showed that 25-30% of men in college said that they would attempt rape if they could get away with it (Malamuth, 1981). One of the most obvious manifestations of the importance of dehumanizing women is the pornography industry. In 1984, 750 million dollars worth was sold to 52 million men (Russell, 1993). With the sanctioning of the male-female inequality through this industry, the template is laid down for the dehumanization of other "lesser" human beings, such as children. Despite increasing social and political awareness of the terrible plight of abused children in the USA and the UK, these two societies advocate the use of physical punishment to bring up children. As a result, about 84-97% of parents in these two countries use corporal punishment on their children. In a survey of 2,143 families, Gelles (1978) found that violence well beyond ordinary physical punishment was widespread and was said to be carried out in the best interests of the victim. The results of the survey are disturbing: 46.4% of children between the ages of three and seventeen had been pushed, grabbed, or shoved, 71% had been slapped or spanked and about 7.7%, i.e., 3-4 million, had been kicked, bitten, or punched by their parent sometime in their lives. These figures are seen as an underestimate of what takes place, since these accounts were given by the parents themselves. At the extreme end of the spectrum, between 99,000 and 1.8 million children had their parents use a gun or knife on them. Straus (1991) points out that physical punishment is a universal phenomenon in the USA, since all Americans are involved, either as victims or as perpetrators. This is because punishment is a sanctioned form of violence essential to the "maintenance of law and order". Since physical punishment is used by authority figures who tend to be loved or respected since it almost always used for a morally correct end and when other methods fail, physical violence teaches that violence can and should be used in similar circumstances. [Straus, 1991] The national and international implications of such a strongly enforced belief system is evident for all to see in our current political context. The evidence is also very important in explaining why some individuals commit violence so easily when given moral permission to do so by those in authority. In the UK, the government refuses to change the law that allows parents to subject children to "reasonable chastisement". This is interesting in light of the evidence that in Sweden, where smacking was abolished in 1979, hardly anyone now advocates a return to physical punishment, whereas before the new law, only 35% believed that children could be raised without beating. There are intimate connections between culturally condoned violence and violent behavior by individuals. Our sense of who we are and how we behave towards others starts in the intimacy of family, in the attachment bonds we develop and subsequently transmit down the generations. But these templates of social interaction, these roles we take on as children and later as adults, are also parts of a bigger system, dictated by the history and socioeconomic context of our social group and its accompanying political system. Our own attachment failures play into the roles we are given as women, men, and children within our particular ethnic group. The external world impinges on the individual through the attachment patterns of his or her family that reinforce some behaviours and reduce others. One such cultural norm is that of corporal punishment sold to us as a means to reduce violence. Unfortunately, punishment does nothing to reduce violence. On the contrary, it seems to increase it, and the manner in which it does this gives us a good illustration of how individual violence is but the manifestation of a larger picture and the socio-economic context in which we live. For example, strong links have been found to exist between levels of legitimate violence and violence against women. Baron and Straus (1988) showed this in a study of an American state where: (1) Violence was prevalent in the media. (2) Violence was used by the government through the carrying out of the death penalty and allowing corporal punishment in schools. (3) There was a high participation in legal violent activities, such as shooting. (4) Women were eight times more likely to be raped than in a state with lower levels of legitimate violence. This study is very important because it shows a direct link between "legitimate" violence and antisocial violence. Another study on attitudes towards war, killing, and punishment of children was carried out among young people aged between thirteen and eighteen years in Estonia, Finland, Romania, the Russian Federation, and the USA. The results showed that American students were more likely than their European counterparts to agree with the following statements: "War is necessary" (20% vs. 9%); "a person has a right to kill to defend property" (54% vs. 10%); "physical punishment is necessary for children" (27% vs. 10%). For McAlister and his colleagues (2001) these results confirm the gap between the US and the European groups in "moral disengagement" attitudes that could lead to deadly violence. Moral disengagement is what we call legitimized violence, that is, the perpetration of violence that is made acceptable by invoking "rights" and "necessities" to provide excuses for the infliction of suffering upon others. As a direct result of a violent upbringing that ignores our basic needs for love and care, we create in society a reservoir of people who are capable, in the right circumstances, of carrying out violent acts against others. Milgram's famous study on Obedience and Authority (1974) illustrates this clearly. In his study more than 50% of ordinary men were capable of inflicting severe and even life-threatening electric shocks on another individual when told to do so by a scientist in a position of authority. They did this in order to make sure that the student in the electric chair learnt his lessons! He concludes his study with the following words: The kind of character produced in American democratic society cannot be counted on to insulate its citizens from brutality and inhumane treatment at the direction of a malevolent authority. A substantial proportion of people do what they are told to do, irrespective of the content of the act and without limitations of conscience so long as they perceive that the command comes from a legitimate authority. [Milgram, 1974, p. 189] Zimbardo's experiment with university students produced similar results in a simulated prison environment (Sabini & Silver, 1982). He simulated the prison environment with highly selected students arbitrarily assigned either to prisoner or to warden roles. This study was focused on what people can do when they are given legitimate power over another. In fact the reactions of both groups were so extreme that the experiment had to be stopped after six days when it was meant to last two weeks. The fact that the experiment got so out4 of hand was indicative of the violence that can be unleashed when the setting encourages people to express their destructive feelings. Whereas some "guards" obeyed prison rules and others went out of their way to help their "prisoners", a third of them were extremely hostile, inventing new forms of degradation and humiliation and appearing to enjoy their newfound power. What these studies show is that, in conditions where abuse is made legitimate, certain people who have been maltreated in childhood can find themselves re-enacting their abusive experience either as victims or as abusers, depending on the power they have and the context they find themselves in. The human potential for destructiveness would be related to the degree of damage inflicted upon the individual's sense of identity and his or her attachment system. However, another factor is necessary for violence to erupt as it did in the experiments above, and that is the process of dehumanization intrinsic to the experiments. Delgado's (1968) work on aggression in primates indicates that the most essential aspect in the development of violence is related to the personal reception and processing of information through various mechanisms of the brain: an aggressive monkey will not attack a socially more senior monkey. In Milgram and Zimbardo's experiments, the authority figure sanctions the dehumanization of the "other"; for example, the student who, "in the interest of science" must be taught what is "right" and what is "wrong". For the experimental subjects who experienced corporal punishment in childhood, the authority figure is like the parent who had to be obeyed. But, in this case, the subject can actually please his authoritarian parent by doing to the student what was done to him. Didn't he learn that "might is right"? A similar process described by both Zimbardo and Milgram takes place in the torture chambers of the world, and is often carried out in the name of "law and order", the "fight against terrorism" etc. with the sanction of a doctor. The importance of punishment in the propagation of violence cannot be underestimated. Being "tough on our children and on crime" in our societies is still what gets politicians into power in terms of both domestic and foreign policy, despite the fact that there is no evidence that such policies reduce violence at all. So why is it that people still carry on with policies and behaviours that do not work at a time when we appear to be increasingly concerned about the magnitude of violence in our societies? To understand this paradox it helps to look at the importance of the military in maintaining violence through legitimate means. After the events of 11 September 2001, the government of the USA started a campaign to dehumanize Muslims, both within the US and abroad, for the purpose of war and "defence". President Bush hiked up the USA's defence budget to $43 million per hour or more than $1 billion a day (Guardian Weekly, 2002). And, as the media is intimately linked to backing the American military-industrial complex, it has played an important role in convincing people of the need to build up America's military potential. This entire process relies on the dehumanization of the "other", the creation of an "enemy". With the collapse of the USSR, new enemies had to be found. This resulted in the USA's military industry moving into "the law and order" business on the domestic front, a booming part of the "war against crime". By the mid 1990s, the USA was spending in excess of $200 billion annually on the crime control industry. Hagan (1994) concluded his analysis of the American penal system by outlining the exponential growth in the imprisonment of young minority offenders and the widened range of coercive sanctions that include boot camps, electronic surveillance, house arrest, high security "campuses", and intensive forms of parole and probation. The horrors of 11 September 2001 provided the military with a new enemy and all that this implied in terms of the dehumanization of the Muslims and preparation for a "war against evil". Once again punishment was seen as the morally correct thing to do, with little interest in whether it would, in fact, have any positive results in terms of reducing terrorism and violence both abroad and at home. The secret agenda was to bolster the current socio-economic system with all that this implies—including fostering further violence, insecurity and dehumanization. The huge investment in the American military complex has had serious socio-economic repercussions. In the early 1990s, sixty cents of every income tax dollar went to the military while only two cents went to education. As a result, there were 16% cuts in federal funding for education, 49% cuts in federal funding for health care, and 77% cuts in federal funding for housing (Andreas, 1993). This situation persists. The parallel investment in the prison system has resulted in two million people in prison and another three and a half million people under penal control in the USA on any given day (Miller, 1996). This results in more than 10 million men in custody for part of a year, in any one year (Gilligan, 1996). The current policy is to increase spending on incarceration and this is supported by the Prison Guards Association, which has given millions to politicians for the expansion of the prison industry {Christie, 1995). While more prisons are being built in the USA and more offenders are being punished, very little is being done to prevent crimes of violence in the home or in society and even less in the prison system. One million prisoners leave prison every year in a worse state than they entered it as a result of having been raped by fellow inmates. Those outside the prison will pay the price of their traumatization (Gilligan, 1996). The human damage inflicted by the penal system in the USA does not stop here. It severely penalizes drug offenders: the "war on drugs" results in 60% of prisoners in the USA being locked up for drug offences, whether they have committed a violent crime or not, and most of these inmates are African-Americans. This is despite the fact that 76% of drug users are white, 14% Black and 8% Hispanic. In New York State, 92% of drug-possession offenders were Black and Hispanic (Kaminer, 1995). A similar group bias is present in Canada and the UK, reflecting the levels of racist abuse and inequality suffered by these minority populations. The resulting fragmentation of these families and the abuse experienced by their "criminal males" does little to improve the attachment patterns of their children and the levels of violence in these communities, especially as their experience of racist abuse is compounded by the "structural violence" to which they are subjected. "Structural violence" represents the unequal distribution of premature death and disability. Thus, those who occupy the bottom ranks of society are more likely to experience early death and disability than are those with more income and wealth. The greater the levels of inequality between the rich and the poor, the more the poor suffer, not only in terms of physical health but also in terms of mental health. These deleterious effects ore not linked to levels of poverty but to the degree of inequality. So, for example, young men in poorer groups showed increasing levels of suicide, crime, and drug misuse, and increased levels of antisocial violence (Watt, 1996). It is the size of the disparity in income between the rich and the poor that is the most powerful predictor of homicide rate (Gilligan, 2001). Structural violence is, in fact, far more deadly than violence caused by armed conflict: in the 1970s, 14-18 million people died every year from poverty while about 100,000 died from armed conflict (Kohler & Alcock, 1976). Every day now 19,000 children die from treatable diseases in the developing world, i.e., thirteen children a minute. This leaves out the effects on the social groupings and their ramifications at the level of family life and the children's attachment relationships. Conclusions If our political leaders wanted to increase the levels of violence in our societies they could do no better than to follow the current agenda. It is a template for future social unrest, self-destruction, and violence and it is being carried out in the name of Law and Order and the victory of Good over Evil. The template for destructive human behaviour begins with the making of insecure attachments of family and is fostered and used by those in authority when they require it—even at the cost of suffering in our families and on our streets. Dehumanization of the "other" is the final trigger for violence to become manifest. It allows people with repressed rage and destructiveness to finally express their feelings on those whom their community or those in authority have deemed to be less human than themselves, be they women, children, Jews, Muslims, Blacks, the elderly, or the poor. Dehumanization and its counterpart principle of "divide and rule" are also central to the process of social control, and inform current economic policies with the resulting effect of generating and sustaining social and economic inequalities. The resultant poverty can be seen as another form of dehumanization and violence. There is little doubt that politicians, scientists, social policy makers, defence strategists, etc. invest hugely in the notion that human violence is both morally evil and/or inextricably part of human nature. As long as we can either blame the violent or attribute their behaviour to genetic abnormalities, we can punish them or lock then up. To see violence as the manifestation of a damaged attachment system and economic inequality means putting the needs of children, women, and men at the centre of a public health campaign which would, in effect, imply huge change to the social and political system we live in. Not many will be prepared to struggle for such changes, especially those who have most to lose—the wealthy and the politicians. But how much more violence can we as a species tolerate before we destroy ourselves and the world we live in? As Einstein said, "We shall require a substantially new way of thinking if mankind is to survive". (110-119) </span>

=Affirmative= 
==BF/Vestavia== 
shout out to mihir kumar who rapped in the face of much adversity

we read japan with warming, east asia war, and growth at the bf

we have also read coin with heg, pakistan, and agroterror. too lazy to put up cites

==Coin 1AC- Calhoun== 
Plan: The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of United States counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan.


Advantage 1 is Hegemony

The current mixture of counterinsurgency and counterterrorist strategies undermines influence and overstretches the military
Boyle, Lecturer in International Relations and Research Fellow at Univ of St. Andrews, 10 Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)

This episode indicates the extent of the confusion … insurgencies as the incubators of future terrorist threats.

Reducing counterinsurgency presence in Afghanistan is the only way to make U.S. efforts sustainable in the long term
Stewart, Ryan Family Professor of the Practice of Human Rights, 9 Director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy, studied at Oxford and served briefly in the British army before working in the diplomatic service in Indonesia and as British representative to Montenegro (9/16/09, Rory, “The Future of Afghanistan,” http://www.hks.harvard.edu/news-events/news/testimonies/rory-stewart-on-afghanistan)

The best Afghan policy would be to reduce the … over a longer period. In Afghanistan in the long-term, less will be more.


Multiple other internals:

First –Counterinsurgency overstretches the military
Dorronsoro, Visiting Scholar at Carnegie, 10 (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” May 24th, Carnegie, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863)

The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan is at an impasse…one province, would overstretch the U.S. military.


Overstretch of the military collapses hegemony and causes nuclear war
Florig, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, 10 (Dennis, “Hegemonic Overreach vs. Imperial Overstretch,” 2/6, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/Delivery.cfm/SSRN_ID1548783_code1259934.pdf?abstractid=1548783&mirid=1)

There is an even larger question than …U.S. is particularly prone to massive miscalculation.


Second – counterinsurgency in Afghanistan is main cause of dollar vulnerability – collapses heg in the long term
Layne, Professor and Robert M. Gates Chair in National Security at Texas, 10 (Christopher Layne, “Graceful Decline,” The American Conservative, May 2010, http://www.amconmag.com/article/2010/may/01/00030/)

The dollar’s vulnerability is the United States’ … counterinsurgency” being waged in Afghanistan and Iraq.

No risk of turns – even if there is a short term decline in credibility – withdrawal sustains long term leadership
Innocent and Carpenter, CATO, 9 *foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)

Myth #3: Withdrawal Would Erode America’s Global Status
… U.S. security than would withdrawal.

Collapse of Hegemony causes extinction
Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 7 [Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,” http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]

Finally, there is the United States itself. …involvement will provide an easier path.

And- Finally- No Impact Turns- multipolarity isn’t real and any system other than hegemony causes multiple scenarios for extinction
Ferguson 04 professor of history at New York University's Stern School of Business and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University (Niall, “A World without Power”, Foreign Policy )

The reality, however, was not a global …forces than rival great powers would benefit from such a not-so-new world disorder




Advantage 2 is the Insurgency


We will lose the war in Afghanistan – multiple reasons

First: No local support
Dorronsoro, scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, 10 expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia (5/11/10, Gilles, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779)

Current U.S. strategy in …
further eroding the coalition’s political capital.


Second: Troop requirements, geography, and politics
Eland et al, The Independent Institute, 9 Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on Peace & Liberty at The Independent Institute, graduate of Iowa State University and received an M.B.A. in applied economics and a Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (December 9, Ivan Eland, Peter Galbraith - Former Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to Afghanistan and Assistant Secretary-General of the U.N.; former Ambassador to Croatia , Charles Pena Senior Fellow, The Independent Institute , “Can the U.S. Withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq?” http://www.independent.org/events/transcript.asp?eventID=145 )

Now, even if the surge had been the …
we’re moving back to a counter-insurgency strategy.

Third: A large military footprint combined with the perception of an illegitimate government
Galston, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies a Brookings, 10 (William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)

Are the basic premises of our …
and political force in Afghanistan.

Fourth: Resistance to foreign occupiers
Dorronsoro, visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 9 (9/23/09, Gilles, The National Interest, “Afghanization,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22218)

Afghanistan may be the right war…
than any foreign forces ever could.







Impacts:

First – Pakistan –
A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse
Akhtar, professor of International Realtions, Baluchistan University, 10 (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#1)

If it is a war against extremists and …
erupt at any moment, thus destabilizing the state.

Pakistan Collapse is on the brink – Military Coup, Flood, Economic Collapse
NEW YORK TIMES 9 – 28 [“Generals in Pakistan Push for Shake-Up of Government”
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/29/world/asia/29pstan.html?_r=1&ref=asia]

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — The Pakistani military, angered by .

Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia
Pitt, New York Times, 9 international bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183)



But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed …
addressing the situation. So should we all.


Second – nuclear terrorism –
the risk of a nuclear attack against the US is high – it will come from Afghanistan or Pakistan – plan key
Wohlstetter, Senior Fellow at Discovery Institute and form advisor to the DoD, 10 (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html)

Of all the WMD threats, nuclear …
grows as Pakistan's stability erodes.

Nuclear terrorism causes extinction
Sid-Ahmed, Political Analyst, 4 [Mohamed, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]

A nuclear attack by terrorists …infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.

Withdrawal will kill Al-Qaida’s support globally
Farrall, Senior Counter-Terrorism Intelligence Agent, 9 Australian Federal Police (Leah, “Al-Qaida prefers U.S. to stick around,” The Australian, November 12th, http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/al-qaida-prefers-us-to-stick-around/story-e6frg6zo-1225796639320)

A key objective is the denial of …
and, more importantly, sustain al-Qa'ida.


Terrorism causes state collapse and global conflicts

Alexander, Professor at George Washington, 2 (Yonah, FDCH Testimony before the Immigration and Claims subcommittee, 2/28, http://judiciary.house.gov/legacy/alexander022802.htm)

Scores of countries have experienced … to the reality of terrorism.


==<span style="text-underline: thick;">Coin 1AC- Johns Creek </span>== 
Same 1ac as above, with this card


Fifth- it’s the next Vietnam – our small victories are going nowhere and we’re spending all our resources

Osborn, USC Annenberg Contributor, 10-11-10 (Sam, "Is The War In Afghanistan America's Next Vietnam?", http://www.neontommy.com/news/2010/10/war-afghanistan-americas-next-vietnam)

America has just entered its tenth year of Operation… operation such as that in Afghanistan.

==Coin 1AC- GBX/Ohio Valley== 

See Hooch DI for updated 1AC's- Just updated uniqueness on the Insurgency Adv

==Coin 1ac- Lexington== 


Material Neo Dialectic Thought Process/PTSD


Plan:
<span style="font-size: 16pt;">The United States federal government should implement a phased withdrawal of United States counterinsurgency troops in Afghanistan. </span>


Adv 1- Warming
COIN is rooted in a Western nation-building ideology – the US props up the ineffective central government
<span style="margin-left: 0in;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Preble 10</span></span> (Christopher A. Preble, Director of Foreign Policy studies at the Cato Institute, May 21, 2010, “Is the War in Afghanistan Winnable?”, http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=11834) </span>

The appropriate … other security challenges elsewhere in the world.

<span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Afghanistan diverts Obama’s attention necessary to prevent erosion of US-Japanese relations</span> </span>
<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Walt,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Professor of International Affairs at Harvard, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">9</span> </span></span>Stephen M., Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international affairs at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, academic dean from 2002-2006; previously taught at Princeton University and the University of Chicago; resident associate of the Carnegie Endowment for Peace and a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution; consultant for the Institute of Defense Analyses, the Center for Naval Analyses, and Singapore's S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, December 3, 2009, [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2009/12/03/the_hidden_costs_of_the_afghan_escalation]])

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">But <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">there is another …</span> a lot of important issues are going to get less attention than they deserve.</span> </span>

Relations solve warming
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Calder,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> director of the Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">9</span></span></span> (Kent E., “Pacific Alliance” Page: 168. 8/24/2009)

Given the present and …being the continent most disastrously affected.
Extinction
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Tickell, 8</span></span> [Oliver, Climate Researcher, The Guardian, 8-11, “On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction”, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2008/aug/11/climatechange]]</span>]

We need to get prepared for four degrees of … could propel us towards <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">a</span></span> similar <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">hothouse Earth</span></span>.




ADV 2 is insurgency
We will lose the war in Afghanistan – multiple reasons

<span class="DebateUnderline">First: No local support </span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> scholar at the Carnegie Endowment, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span></span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> expert on Afghanistan, Turkey, and South Asia (5/11/10, Gilles, “Karzai comes to Washington,” Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, </span></span><span class="Underline"><span style="color: black;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40779]]</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">) </span></span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Current</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> U.S. <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">strategy</span> …</span></span>, further <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">eroding the coalition’s political capital. </span></span>


Second: Troop requirements, geography, and politics
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Eland et al,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> The Independent Institute, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">9</span></span></span> Senior Fellow and Director of the <span style="color: black;">Center on Peace & Liberty</span> at The Independent Institute, graduate of Iowa State University and received an M.B.A. in applied economics and a Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute (December 9, Ivan Eland, Peter Galbraith - Former Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to Afghanistan and Assistant Secretary-General of the U.N.; former Ambassador to Croatia , Charles Pena Senior Fellow, The Independent Institute , <span class="hdr"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Can the U.S. Withdraw from Afghanistan and Iraq?</span></span>” <span style="color: black;">http://www.independent.org/events/transcript.asp?eventID=145</span> )

Now, even if the surge had been the …moving back to a counter-insurgency strategy.

Third: A large military footprint combined with the perception of an illegitimate government
<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Galston,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Fellow of Governance Studies a Brookings, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span> </span></span>(William, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies @ Brookings, “A Question of Life and Death: U.S. Policy in Afghanistan,” Brookings, June 15th, http://www.brookings.edu/opinions/2010/0615_afghanistan_galston.aspx)

Are the basic premises of …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">-term military presence</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and political force in Afghanistan. </span></span>

<span class="DebateUnderline">Fourth: Resistance to foreign occupiers </span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> visiting scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">9</span> </span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">(9/23/09, Gilles, The National Interest, “Afghanization,” </span></span><span style="color: black;">http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=22218</span>)

Afghanistan may be the right war, but …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">regions better than any foreign forces</span></span> ever <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">could. </span></span>

Fifth- it’s the next Vietnam – our small victories are going nowhere and we’re spending all our resources
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Osborn,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> USC Annenberg Contributor, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10-11</span></span></span>-10 (Sam, "Is The War In Afghanistan America's Next Vietnam?", http://www.neontommy.com/news/2010/10/war-afghanistan-americas-next-vietnam)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">America has just entered its …constitutes success in a military operation such as that in Afghanistan. </span></span>





Impacts:

First – Pakistan –
A large counterinsurgency footprint drives insurgents to Pakistan, mobilizes the Pakistani Taliban and will cause Pakistan to collapse
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Akhtar,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> professor of International Realtions, Baluchistan University, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span></span></span> (1/26/10, Shameem, “Pakistan’s Instability : The US War Factor,” http://www.islamonline.net/servlet/Satellite?c=Article_C&cid=1262372328640&pagename=Zone-English-Muslim_Affairs/MAELayout#**1)**

**<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">If it is a war against extremists …</span></span>, <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">but <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">they may erupt at any moment</span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">,</span></span></span> thus <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">destabilizing the state</span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">.</span> </span>**

Pakistan Collapse is on the brink – Military Coup, Flood, Economic Collapse
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NEW YORK TIMES 9 – 28 [“Generals in Pakistan Push for Shake-Up of Government” </span>[[http://www.nytimes.com/2010/09/29/world/asia/29pstan.html?_r=1&ref=asia]]] ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — __<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">The Pakistani military</span>____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">, [[#LastEdit]]</span>__. Pakistan collapse causes global nuclear conflict – draws in China, India and Russia <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Pitt,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> New York Times, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">9</span> </span></span>international bestselling author of two books: "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" and "The Greatest Sedition Is Silence." (5/8/09, William, “Unstable Pakistan Threatens the World,” http://www.arabamericannews.com/news/index.php?mod=article&cat=commentary&article=2183) But a suicide bomber in Pakistan rammed … Obama administration appears to be gravely serious about addressing the situation. So should we all. Second – nuclear terrorism – the risk of a nuclear attack against the US is high – it will come from Afghanistan or Pakistan – plan key <span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Wohlstetter,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Fellow at Discovery Institute and form advisor to the DoD, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">10</span></span></span> (John, Letter from the Capitol: a global cyber-tour of events and analysis pertaining to war, security, economic & cultural issues, “LFTC - Nuclear Terrorism Threat Growing?,” 2010, 2-2, <span style="color: black;">http://www.letterfromthecapitol.com/letterfromthecapitol/2010/02/lftc-nuclear-terrorism-threat-growing.html</span>) <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Of all the WMD threats, nuclear weapons remain the … WMD threat persists and grows as Pakistan's stability erodes. </span></span>Nuclear terrorism causes extinction <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Sid-Ahmed,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Political Analyst, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">4</span></span></span> [Mohamed, [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]]] <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A nuclear attack by … infects the whole planet, we will all be losers</span></span>**
||   ||
||   ||



















.

**Withdrawal will kill Al-Qaida’s support globally**
**<span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Farrall,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Senior Counter-Terrorism Intelligence Agent, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">9</span></span></span> Australian Federal Police (Leah, “Al-Qaida prefers U.S. to stick around,” The Australian, November 12th, http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/al-qaida-prefers-us-to-stick-around/story-e6frg6zo-1225796639320) <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A key objective is … to inspire more of them and, more importantly, sustain al-Qa'ida. </span></span>**




<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Terrorism causes state collapse and global conflicts </span>
**<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Alexander,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Professor at George Washington, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">2</span> </span></span>(Yonah, FDCH Testimony before the Immigration and Claims subcommittee, 2/28, http://judiciary.house.gov/legacy/alexander022802.htm) Scores of countries have experienced …__<span style="text-underline: thick;"> in responding to the reality of terrorism. </span>__ADV 3 is stress <span class="DebateUnderline">Counterinsurgency overstretches the military </span><span class="cite"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Dorronsoro,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Visiting Scholar at Carnegie,</span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;"> 10</span></span> (Gilles, “The Case for Negotiations,” May 24th, Carnegie, http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=40863) The coalition's strategy in Afghanistan …. <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">To replicate such strategy, even in one province, would overstretch the</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> U.S<span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">. military.</span> </span></span>This causes tradeoff of funds that could be used to help PTSD**
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">**<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Jamail,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Global Research, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">9</span></span></span> (Dahr, "A Military Health Care System Over-Stretched by Two Ongoing Wars", http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=16530)</span>**</span>
**MARFA, Texas, Dec 11 (IPS) - <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">With a military health care system over-stretched</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">…</span>mental health care treatment</span></span> from the military for their PTSD. We have a moral obligation to vote for PTSD – ignoring the problem closes space for better society <span class="Author-Date"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Maarda and Verweij,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Editors, <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: aqua; background-origin: initial;">9</span></span></span> (Th.A. van, associate professor of Military Ethics at the Netherlands Defence Academy and head of the Bureau for Ethics and the Armed Forces, and D.E.M., professor in Philosophy and Ethics at Netherlands Defence Academy, "The Moral Dimenstion of Asymmetrical Warfare: Counter-terrorism, Democratic Values, and Military Ethics", pg. 360-361, Google Books) This chapter cannot explain all or …<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;"> people to freely construct a cohesive narrative of their own future.</span></span>**
=**A2: CT Shift**= 


a.) local networks & surveillance – and drone strikes will disrupt safe havens
Bacevich 9, Professor of International Relations … Win,” http://harpers.org/archive/2009/11/0082687)

What might this mean in … they are quick to exploit.



a.) despite resources – there’s no organization
Abramowitz, 09 - senior fellow at the … ://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id

Few, however, disagree that this … amounts of aid for Kabul?

b.) non-Pashtuns and regional actors will prevent it
Katz, 9 - professor of government and politics at George Mason University (Mark, “Assessing an Afghanistan Withdrawal,” 9/9, ISN Security Watch, http://www.isn.ethz.ch/isn/Current-Affairs/Security-Watch/Detail/?lng=en&id=105801)

Those opposing a US/NATO withdrawal assume that this will lead to the Taliban returning to power in Afghanistan, the Taliban allowing al-Qaida renewed access to the country, and al-Qaida making use of Afghanistan to successfully attack the West again. All three of these assumptions, though, are questionable.
First, it is not clear … to its hold on power.
Finally, al-Qaida and its affiliates already have access to Pakistan’s Northwest Frontier Province, Somalia, Yemen and other badlands. It is not clear how al-Qaida’s getting more access to Afghanistan than it now has would materially increase its already considerable ability to attack the West.
Far more than what it … necessarily lead to defeat there.

c.) Militarily impossible for the Taliban to win
Corn, 9 – Ph.D. from the University of Paris and is a graduate of the U.S. Naval War College, currently on leave from the US State Department (Tony, “Toward a Kilcullen-Biden Plan? Bounding Counterinsurgency in Afghanistan,” Small Wars Journal, 10/21,
http://smallwarsjournal.com/blog/2009/10/toward-a-kilcullenbiden-plan/

At the risk of stating … bomb” their way to victory.


Taliban control won’t increase instability in Pakistan
Finel 09 - a Contributing Editor at the Atlantic Council, is a Senior Fellow at the American Security Project (ASP) where he directs research on counter-terrorism and defense policy ( April 27, Bernand “Afghanistan is Irrelevant” http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/afghanistan-irrelevant

Fourth, we are now told … the case of Communist expansion.



7.) Counterinsurgency drives the expansion of drone attacks and raids – the plan’s counterterrorism focus limits the scope
Boyle, 10 - 1 Lecturer in International Relations and a Research Fellow at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at the University of St Andrews (3/10/10, Michael, International Affairs, “Do counterterrorism and counterinsurgency go together?” http://www3.interscience.wiley.com/journal/123318677/abstract)

A second, and related, problem … -value targets’ near the border.

8.) Drones solve terrorism
Simon 9, Adjunct Senior Fellow for Middle Eastern Studies (Steven, “Can the Right War Be Won?” Foreign Affairs. New York: Jul/Aug 2009. Vol. 88, Iss. 4; pg. 130-139)

Thus, if the core concern … benefits are worth the cost.








=**<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">T 2ACs</span>**= 

==**<span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">T - Combat Troops</span>**== 

--- Presence refers to personnel stationed in a region
The Oxford Essential Dictionary of the U.S. Military 2 (by Oxford University Press, Inc. All rights reserved, republished and cited as “US Military Dictionary” at: http://www.answers.com/topic/presence)

US Military Dictionary:
presence
n.a group of people, especially … : maintain a presence in the region.

This is the official DoD Definition
GAO 1 Government Accounting Office (MILITARY READINESS Effects of a U.S. Military Presence in Europe on Mobility Requirements, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA396948)

The Department of Defense defines … Force air base support sets.

=**DA 2ACs**= 

==Withdrawal DA== 
Factionalism – splinters the Taliban into multiple competing factions – denies them a common cause – that’s Farrall
And phased withdrawal while maintaining a counterterrorism strategy allows more effective US leadership in the war on terror and maximizes US credibility
Chellany, Professor of Strategic Studies … .japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/eo20090914bc.html)

When the administration's principal … deep-rooted military-mullah alliance.


---Withdrawal is inevitable – its more stable if it occurs now rather than later
Finel, Senior Fellow at the American Security Project 9 (8/20/09, Bernard, “An Alternative Strategy for Afghanistan,” ASP, http://www.americansecurityproject.org/theflashpointblog/bernard-finel/2009/08/20/an-alternative-strategy-for-afghanistan/)

One of my great frustrations in becoming more involved in the debate over Afghanistan policy and the utility of population-centric counter-insurgency (COIN) theory is how ruthlessly the pro-escalation side of the debate has sought to caricature the position of the skeptics. The choice has been portrayed as being between a full commitment to COIN or an immediate withdrawal and subsequent abandonment of Afghanistan. These are not the only choices. While I cannot speak for other skeptics of American policy in Afghanistan, I can at least sketch out what I believe would be a plausible alternative strategy.
First, I believe the United States … Karzai regime or a legitimate successor.


---Overstretch collapses deterrence as it becomes more visible
Perry and Flournoy, Former Secretary of Defense and Senior Fellow at CSIS, 6 (William J Perry, Former Secretary of Defense, and Michele A. Flournoy, Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, National Defense, “The US Military: Under Strain And At Risk,” – National Defense, May, http://www.nationaldefensemagazine.org/issues/2006/may/TheU.S.MilitaryUnder.htm)

If recruiting trends do not … our ability to deter aggression.

No risk of Taliban takeover
Afghanistan Study Group 8-16-10 ("A NEW WAY FORWARD: RETHINKING U.S. STRATEGY IN AFGHANISTAN", http://www.afghanistanstudygroup.org/NewWayForward_report.pdf)

If we leave Afghanistan, the Taliban will take over, Al Qaeda will re-establish itself there, and new and deadly attacks on America will be more likely.
Reality: The Taliban are unpopular … been inspired by similar motivations


==Obama Good== 


---Bipartisan support for counterinsurgency reduction
Littlepage 9 - (Dec 3, Mary “Bipartisan Group … ” http://www.truth-out.org/1203099)

A bipartisan group of legislators … and their communities.


---Political capital doesn’t influence the passage of legislation
Dickinson, Professor of Political Science at Middlebury College, 9 taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/)

As for Sotomayor, from here … measured through legislative boxscores.


---Winner’s Win
Singer, Juris Doctorate candidate at Berkeley Law, 9 (an editor of MyDD, a position he has held since November 2005. Singer is a Juris Doctorate candidate at Berkeley Law, 3/3/09 (Johnathan, My direct Democracy, By expending capital, Obama Grows His Capital, http://www.mydd.com/story/2009/3/3/191825/0428)

Peter Hart gets at a key … ending the war in Iraq.


---Public hates the war effort
Johnson, Associated Press Polling Director, 8-20-10 (Glen, "Poll: Nearly 6 in 10 oppose war in Afghanistan", Associated Press, http://www.commondreams.org/headline/2010/08/20-8)

LAWRENCE, Mass. - A majority of Americans … people's trust in their government.



---Biden supports the plan and it’s spilling over
Bailey, Former White House Correspondent for Newsweek, 9 (October 10, Holly, “An Inconvenient Truth Teller” http://www.newsweek.com/2009/10/09/an-inconvenient-truth-teller.html

Back in March, Biden stood … chief of staff Rahm Emanuel.

He’s key
Bailey, Former White House Correspondent for Newsweek, 9 (October 10, Holly, “An Inconvenient Truth Teller” http://www.newsweek.com/2009/10/09/an-inconvenient-truth-teller.html )

Across the board, Biden's real ... what you get with Joe."



==Dip Cap== 
Turn <span style="font-weight: normal;">-plan sustains dipcap</span>

**[Greg Torode, 12-3, "Will Obama's Afghan strategy play into China's hands?", Lexis]**

**US President Barack Obama's Afghan strategy…. "We fully expect that will continue."**


**DipCap already being dispelled-**
**A. Taiwan**
**AP 7/27**
**TAIPEI, Taiwan — U.S. Secretary of State Hillary … more difficult to resolve."**

**North Korea**
**VOA News 7/23 ("Secretary Clinton announced new sanctions against North Korea.", http://www1.voanews.com/policy/editorials/Clinton-In-South-Korea-99133454.html )**

**"By contrast," said Secretary Clinton, …need for sanctions will be eliminated.**

**US not Key**

**[“US, Russia, France back Nagorno-Karabakh peace moves,” http://uk.reuters.com/article/idUKN26177539._CH_.2420]**
**HUNTSVILLE, Ontario, June 26 (Reuters) - The United States, France and Russia on Saturday pledged to support …appease Azerbaijan, an oil and gas producer.**

**Azerbaijan Blocks**

**[“Aliyev impudent hypocrite, Armenian MP says,” http://news.am/eng/news/24611.html]**
**Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliev has … of the Azeri leaders’ threats and provocations.**


**7. No Escalation**
Stepanian**, 6-28-2010**
**[Ruzanna, “Another Karabakh War Unlikely, Says UK Envoy,” http://www.azatutyun.am/content/article/2085150.html]**

**The Armenian-Azerbaijani war is unlikely...settlement based on mutual compromise.**




==**India DA**== 
1. Relations low - unsustainable expectations
Perkovich and Paal 10- vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program and vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace ["Toward Realistic US-India Relations" http://www.carnegieendowment.org/events/index.cfm?fa=eventDetail&id=3062]


Over the past decade, certain … in proselytizing or promoting democracy.

2. The plan strengthens counter terrorism strategies which is the biggest challenge to relations
Bajoria 10 [Council on Foreign Relations "A Close US-India Embrace" http://www.cfr.org/publication/23332/closer_usindia_embrace.html]

While the two governments seem … as active as ever before."

3. Afghanistan is not key to relations
Galrahn 10 - Government consultant, specializes in private and public strategy implementation and development. ["The Afghan Exaggeration" 8/24/10 http://www.informationdissemination.net/2010/09, Pritchett, Raymond]

He or she who sits … powers like China and the US.

4. India hates military efforts in Afghanistan – prefers political solutions
Singh 10 - National Law Institute, LL.M in European Legal Practices from the University of Rouen and has previously worked with the World Bank, the UN, and the European Commission [Pankaj, "Indian involvement in Afghanistan" http://www.stichtingjason.nl/node/507 05/30/2010]

As insecurity and violence in … of individuals into the mainstream.”

5. [IF Warming]
A. The GOP will block all climate legislation means we can never cooperate globally
Sheppard 10 ["Senate Republicans to World: We're Not Paying for Climate Change" http://motherjones.com/blue-marble/2010/12/senate-republicans-world-were-not-paying-climate']

The senators note that that … the funds is has promised.

B. India will not cooperate with the US on climate change
Perkovich and Paal 10 - vice president for studies and director of the Nuclear Policy Program and vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace ["Toward Realistic US-India Relations" http://www.carnegieendowment.org/events/index.cfm?fa=eventDetail&id=3062]

Trade and Climate Change: Ultimately, … no progress on emissions reductions.

[IF China]
Other factors have already led to China’s rise with no support from India
Grant 10 - director of the Centre for European Reform ["India's response to China's rise, http://www.cer.org.uk/pdf/pb_india_china_grant_aug10.pdf]

And yet there is a great … unrest in Tibet and Xinjiang.1

[IF Democracy]
India has been democratic for over 50 years and democracy promotion in bordering countries empirically fails
Nyden 5, Sunday Gazzette Mail lexis

Khalidi's book documents a strong liberal, … in 1953 and Iraq in 1963 and 1968

Heg solves relations
Khan 03, Brigadier General and Former Director of Arms Control and Disarmament Affairs in the Strategic Plans Division of the Joint Services Headquarters in Pakistan (Feroz, Arms Control Today, “The Independence-Dependence Paradox: Stability Dilemmas in South Asia”, Volume 33, Issue 8, October)
In fact, it could be … dependent on the United States.







=**Counterplan 2ACs**= 

==**Debt Comission CP**== 
Thier own Rosen ev indicates that congress could immediately cut funds or order a phased withdrawal
Rosen, 2k7
(Jeffrey Rosen is the legal affairs editor of The New Republic and author of The Most Democratic Branch: How the Courts Serve America. "In Wartime, Who Has the Power?"http://www.nytimes.com/2007/03/04/weekinreview/04rosen.html?pagewanted=1&_r=1)
If Congress used its appropriations … <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">for specified numbers of troops.</span></span>
5. CP links to politics - Maintaining troops in Afghanistan indefinitely costs PC - costs and other priorities 
Youssef 9 - <span style="font-size: 10.0pt; font-weight: normal;">writerfor McClatchy newspapers http://www.mcclatchydc.com/2009/09/18/v-print/75702/military-growing-impatient-with.html</span>
As violence soared, it became … <span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">,</span></span> the senior defense official said.

7. Permutation – the United States federal government including the executive branch should withdrawal counterinsurgency troops – Presidential Powers are lowest when the executive acts unilaterally – the permutation solves the net benefit BEST
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Jackson, Former Supreme Court Justice, 52</span></span> [Robert H, President Roosevelt nominated Jackson to the Supreme Court of the United States in 1941. Jackson served on the Supreme Court for thirteen years. This is his decision on Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. V. Sawyer, “[THE STEEL SEIZURE CASE] United States Supreme Court 343 U.S. 579, 72 S. Ct. 863, 96 L. Ed. 1153”, http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/biography/Jackson.html, 6/2/52]
<span style="display: block; text-align: justify; text-indent: 0.1in;">MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, concurring in the judgment and in the opinion of the Court. . . .</span>
<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.4in; text-align: justify;">“The actual art of … established by our constitutional system.”</span>

==Congress CP== 



**Presidential Powers are lowest when the executive acts unilaterally – the permutation solves the net benefit BEST**
**Jackson, Former Supreme Court Justice, 52 [Robert H, President Roosevelt nominated Jackson to the Supreme Court of the United States in 1941. Jackson served on the Supreme Court for thirteen years. This is his decision on Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. V. Sawyer, “[THE STEEL SEIZURE CASE] United States Supreme Court 343 U.S. 579, 72 S. Ct. 863, 96 L. Ed. 1153”, http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/biography/Jackson.html, 6/2/52]**

**MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, concurring in the judgment and in the opinion of the Court. . . .for what is at stake is the equilibrium established by our constitutional system.”**

**2. Presidential power high**
**Walsh, Chief White House Correspondent, 9 [Kenneth, “Obama, Like Bush, Uses Crisis to Expand Presidential Power” US News and World Report, March 16, http://www.usnews.com/articles/news/obama/2009/03/16/obama-like-bush-uses-crisis-to-expand-presidential-power.html?PageNr=2]**

**It's clear that Obama is intent ,,,in both cases has been a more muscular presidency.**



==**Bilat Treaty CP**== 

---Training fails – corruption and dependence
Innocent and Carpenter, CATO, 9 *foreign policy analyst at Cato who focuses on Afghanistan and Pakistan AND **vice president for defense and foreign policy studies at Cato (Malou and Ted, “Escaping the Graveyard of Empires: A Strategy to Exit Afghanistan,” http://www.cato.org/pubs/wtpapers/escaping-graveyard-empires-strategy-exit-afghanistan.pdf)

That means the United States … across tribal and ethnic lines.



---Bilateral defense treaties do not change the perception of commitment or alter the insurgency
O’Hanlon and Shejan, Brookings and Aid Afghanistan, 10 Michael O’hanlon, senior fellow at The Brookings Institution, specializing in defense and foreign policy issues, and Hassina Sherjan, president of Aid Afghanistan for education, (2010, “Toughening it out in Afghanistan,” p.102-103)

Plan for an Alliance with Afghanistan
Senator Joseph Lieberman, scholar Ashley … to turn on the battlefield.




And Pakistan flood means the resources the CP assumes aren’t there
Margolis, Huffington Post, 8-23-10 (Eric, "PAKISTAN'S FLOODS THREATEN TO WASH OUT US WAR PLANS", http://www.huffingtonpost.com/eric-margolis/pakistans-floods-threaten_b_691363.html)

The once in a century monsoon … probably collapse in short order.
Making matters worse, Islamabad's major cash-earner, cotton, has been severely damaged by the floods. Important food crops have been destroyed, meaning Pakistan will require emergency food aid in the coming twelve months.
The monsoon floods ravaging Pakistan … the Karzai government in Kabul.
The "Times" exclusive was actually reported by this column months ago. Washington and its allies have been straining to stop Afghans from finding an end to their nine-year conflict.
Now, Russia, the former occupier, is giving increasing military and logistical help to the Western powers in Afghanistan and to the still powerful Afghan Communist Party. Talk about déjà vu.
The US and NATO could … use of 140,000 rented Pakistani troops.



---Population protection fails – the US pursues it now – and it increases the effectiveness of Taliban attacks
Etzioni, Professor of International Relations at George Washington U, 10 (Amitai, “Unshackle the Troops,” The New Republic, 8/12, lexis)

For the past year, U.S. troops … to fire at our troops.
The main responsibility for causing civilian casualties, in short, is on the Taliban. Yet, for reasons I cannot fathom, instead of making this case whenever civilian casualties take place, American generals apologize time and again. I am not against expressing regret about the loss of life, any life, including those of the Taliban. However, in this context, the generals who speak for America, nay, for the free world, reinforce the precept that the casualties are our fault, period. We ought to be clearer in our own minds, and more articulate in addressing others, about why innocent civilians are killed and how such deaths can be minimized.
Moreover, even setting aside the … of communication aimed at Afghans.

Defense treaty is coming but won’t have any effect on the war effort
Wadhams and Cookman, Center for American Progress, 10 (Caroline and Colin, "Keeping Karzai's Feet to the Fire", July 21, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2010/07/wadhams_cookman_karzai.html)

On Tuesday, the Afghan … base of Afghan public support.


==**<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">Silk Road CP </span>**== 
**The Silk Road fails--- stability and uncooperative states**
**Tellis, Senior Associate in Carnegie’s South Asia Program, 10 (2010, Ashley, Carnegie Endowment for Peace, “IMPLEMENTING A REGIONAL APPROACH TO AFGHANISTAN,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/regional_approach.pdf)**

The first is the need for security in Afghanistan… integration imagine it should.



==Consult Nato CP== 

NATO is losing its touch and is worse for plan solvency
Black, Historian - National Review Online, 10 (Conrad, "The U.S.’s Disorganized Retreat", http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/250378/us-s-disorganized-retreat-conrad-black?page=1)

NATO, the most successful alliance … fanatical and otherwise detested Taliban.



And consultation will dilute the aff and is time consuming – our Say No evidence super-charges this argument
Wong, Policy Analyst at RAND, 1 [Anny, “The Roots of Japan’s International Environment Policies”]

The double-edged quality of … has always been a difficult task.


---They’ll say no:
A. ISAF needs the US
Kay and Khan, Chair of International Studies - Ohio Wesleyan AND CSIS, 7 (Sean and Sahar, "NATO and Counter-insurgency: Strategic Liability or Tactical Asset?", Comtemporary Security Policy, May, http://www.contemporarysecuritypolicy.org/assets/CSP-28-1-Kay.pdf)

While NATO members saw an … deployable, and highly lethal forces.

B. They love COIN
Sabloff and Sarro, Huffington Post, 10 [quoting Mark Sedwill, NATO civilian administrator (Nicholas and Doug, 6/25, “Your request is being processed... NATO Pledges To Stay The Course In Afghanistan”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2010/06/25/nato-pledges-to-stay-the_n_625265.html]

NATO pledges to stay the … operations," will remain in effect.



B. Fiat doesn’t mean the plan is implemented – the resolution is a question of what the federal government should do - should means desirable or recommended, not mandatory
Words and Phrases, 2002 (“Words and Phrases: Permanent Edition” Vol. 39 Set to Signed. Pub. By Thomson West. P. 372-373)

Or. 1952. Where safety regulation for … Oregon Lumber Co., 239 P.2d 839, 193 Or. 556.---Labor & Emp. 2857

---Doesn’t solve heg
Washington Post 93 [8/10 l/n]

The actual starting point of … gasping for its last breath.



---There are four sources of discord in US-European relationship - consultation can’t solve
Reiss, US Director of Policy Planning, 4 [Mitchell, US Department of State, “Revitalizing Transatlantic Relations: Bridging the Divide,” http://www.state.gov/s/p/rem/32448.htm]

Sources of Division: Real or … – all are recipes for disaster.


---Disagreements within NATO over Afghanistan policy are inevitable
Feffer, co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus at the Institute for Policy Studies, 9 (John, “If Afghanistan is its test, NATO is failing,” Asia Times, 10/1, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/South_Asia/KJ01Df01.html)

Not so long ago, … to be its ultimate undoing.

---All 26 NATO members have to come to conclusion over the plan – they won’t work together for Afghanistan policy
Kay and Khan, Chair of International Studies - Ohio Wesleyan AND CSIS, 7 (Sean and Sahar, "NATO and Counter-insurgency: Strategic Liability or Tactical Asset?", Comtemporary Security Policy, May, http://www.contemporarysecuritypolicy.org/assets/CSP-28-1-Kay.pdf)

NATO’s first strategic dilemma is … for counter-insurgency combat operations. 


==**Khorasan PIC**== 
<span class="TagsChar2"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">---Their evidence is wrong about the etymology of the term ‘Afghanistan’—it is Persian for ‘Pashtun Place’ and has been used since the 1500s.</span></span>
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Serving History 10</span></span> (“Afghanistan: Etymology,” Available Online at[[http://www.servinghistory.com/topics/Afghanistan::sub::Etymology]], Accessed 08-02-2010)

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">The first part of … </span></span>such in the nation's 1923 constitution.
---No Net Benefit and … <span class="DebateUnderline">heralding the End of Days.</span>
---One one instance can never solve because the term “Afghanistan” is used in DOD legislation now.
<span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">US CODE 10</span>
**(**UNITED STATES PUBLIC LAWS 111th Congress -- 1st Session (c) 2009, LEXIS-NEXIS, A DIVISION OF REED ELSEVIER INC. AND REED ELSEVIER PROPERTIES INC. PUBLIC LAW 111-84 [H.R. 2647] OCT. 28, 2009 NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2010 111 P.L. 84; 123 Stat. 2190; 2009 Enacted H.R. 2647; 111 Enacted H.R. 2647)

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Iraq, … permanent military bases in Afghanistan.</span></span>
Also proves no solvency for the counterplan – wouldn’t be able to determine where to remove troops because Khorasan was what we called it before 
---A focus on representations destroys social change by ignoring political and material constraints
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua; font-size: 12pt;">Taft-Kaufman,</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Professor – Department of Speech Communication and Dramatic Arts – Central Michigan, <span style="background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% aqua;">95</span></span></span> (Jill, Southern Communication Journal, Spring, proquest)
The postmodern passwords of "polyvocality," "… the budgets that fuel them.
==**//GDPR CP//**== 
**---Perm – do the counterplan – its not severance – we never specified the branch – federal means associated governments of the national government – the DoD is still part of this**
**Black’s Law Dictionary, 1999 federal, adj.**

Of or relating to a system … national government of the United States. 

**---The GPR kills heg and would mess up the implementation of the plan**
**O’Hanlon 8 (Michael, Senior Fellow of Foreign Policy at Brookings, June, “Unfinished Business: U.S. Overseas Military Presence in the 21st Century”, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Files/rc/reports/2008/06_military_ohanlon/06_military_ohanlon.pdf, AV)**
**if there is a danger in the GPR, … interests of certain allies like Korea and Germany.**

**---Permutation – do both – phased withdrawal solves – the plan is done but phased withdrawal means all troops wouldn’t be removed by the time of the GDPR anyway – solves the link to politics because leaders would know that the plan was still a part of the GPR**

**Delegation produces slower results of implementation by compounding the problem**
**Ginsburg, Law at George Mason, 93 [Douglas H., REGULATION: THE CATO REVIEW OF BUSINESS AND GOVERNMENT, http://www.cato.org/pubs/regulation/reg18n1f.html]**

There is much more in Schoenbrod's account … legislators have delegated the hard choices.

**---“Power of the Purse” means only congress can appropriate funding**
**Utt, Heritage Foundation, 2 senior research fellow at The Heritage Foundation [Ronald, The Heritage Foundation, “Pork-Barrel Spending: Congress Goes Hog Wild”, http://www.heritage.org/Press/Commentary/ed050202b.cfm, 5/2/02]**

"The power of the purse … project in Washington state ($4 million).




=<span class="DebateUnderline">Kritik 2ACs</span>= 


==Security== 


**---Realism and securitization are inevitable**
**Guzzini, Senior Research Fellow at the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, 98 Associate Professor of Political Science, International Relations, and European Studies at the Central European University in Budapest, 1998 (Stefano, Realism in International Relations, p. 212)**

Therefore, in a third step…necessarily in the spirit, of realism.



**---Threats are real – alt results in military interventions and dismisses a safer approach to IR**
**Liotta Prof of Humanities at Salve Regina University 05,Professor of Humanities at Salve Regina University, Newport, RI, andExecutive Director of the Pell Center for International Relations and Public Policy**
**[P. H. “Through the Looking Glass” Sage Publications]**

Although it seems attractive to focus on address – or fail to address – security.



**---Alt fails – no acceptable solution or empirical evaluation**
**Walt, Professor of International Affairs at Harvard, 99 (Stephen, “Rigor or Rigor Mortis? Rational Choice and Security Studies,” International Security, 23(4),)**

**Taken together, these characteristics … took control of its research agenda.**


**That makes their impacts inevitable**
**Boggs, Professor of Social Sciences – Los Angeles, 97 (Carl, The Great Retreat, Theory and Society 26.6, jstor)**

**The false sense of empowerment …collective interests that had vanished from civil society.75**


=Negative= 


=**CPs**= 


==Shimoji CP== 
//1NC//


**The United States federal government should inform the government of Japan that the United States federal government will remove all of its military presence from the Okinawa Prefecture in Japan if the government of Japan allows the United States federal government to establish an air station on Shimoji Island.**


**Conflict over Taiwan is inevitable now—expanded U.S. base presence near Taiwan is key to prevent war.**
**Robert Maginnis, a Retired Army lieutenant colonel, a national security and foreign affairs analyst for radio and television and a senior strategist with the U.S. Army, 8/6/10 [Winning the New Cold War, http://www.humanevents.com/article.php?id=38425**

Chinese General Ma Xiaotian, the deputy… capability to advance its hegemonic ambitions.

**A Shift to Shimoji is Necessary to Deter a China Invasion of Taiwan**
**Chris Rahman, Research Fellow @ The Center for Maritime Policy – PhD in History & Politics @ Univ. of Wollongong, ‘1 [Defending Taiwan and Why It Matters, https://portal.nwc.navy.mil/press/Naval%20War%20College%20Review/2001/Article%20by%20Rahman%20Autumn%202001.pdf]**

Taiwan suffers from small size… Chinese adventure against Taiwan.”9



**Cross-strait war escalates to global nuclear War**
**Straits Times, 2k. [“Regional Fallout: No one gains in war over Taiwan,” Jun 25, LN]**

THE high-intensity scenario postulates… he said in a recent interview given to the Chinese press.

**Japan will say yes to the CP But Spurn Their Perms—they’ll ok a U.S. base on Shimoji If We Condition on Closure**
**Zalmay Khalilzad, American Counselor @ CSIS – Former US Ambassador to the UN, Afghanistan, and Iraq, ‘1 [The United States and Asia: Toward a New U.S. Strategy and Force Posture, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1315/MR1315.ch4.pdf]**
**Okinawa itself lies only about halfway…. the troubled waters of the Taiwan Strait.**


====**2NC**==== 
**Taiwan War is The Most Probable Scenario For Superpower Conflict**
**Noble, Prof. of IR @ University of Tokyo, ‘5 [Gregory W. Journal of East Asian Studies 5.1, p. ebsco]**

Confrontation over the sovereignty… alienation of Taiwan from China. 

**And It’s the Most Likely to Go Nuclear**
**Bullard, PhD from Cal Berkeley, Former US army Attache to Beijing and Senior Fellow Center Nonproliferation studies, ‘4 (Dr. Monte December, http://cns.miis.edu/pubs/other/straittalk.htm)**

War between the United States and China is…. the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons .

==Navy CP== 
TEXT: The USFG should not reduce its military presence in South Korea. The USFG should avoid a reduction of its military presence in South Korea by offsetting US military presence with a substantial increase in US naval presence in South Korea. Reductions should not include the navy. The USFG should transfer and reallocate all resources and funding from troops to the navy. The budget for the navy should be permitted to carry out these requests. The naval presence in South Korea should be readily positioned for redeployment operations.

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The CP is critical to sustain naval dominance – that solves everything and avoids a great power rival that collapses our naval primacy</span>**
**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"> O’Brien 5/4/10 – Robert, former United States Representative to the 60th Session of the UN General Assembly, Current Managing Partner of the Los Angeles office of Arent Fox LLP <span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-c-o/america-must-immediately_b_563628.html]]</span> </span>**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The United States Navy is of critical importance to the defense of this country and to maintaining ... humanitarian missions that now occupy the time of larger warships better suited for blue water action. </span>

**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">This naval primacy solves all conflicts and avoids extinction </span>**
**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Kagan, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 7 [Robert, “End of Dreams, Return of History,”<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; cursor: pointer; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.hoover.org/publications/policyreview/8552512.html#n10]]</span>] </span>**

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The jostling for status and influence among ... disrupt trade flows in a way that is now impossible.</span>
=**Disads**= 

==**Russia DA**== 

===**1NC**=== 
**2010 is the key year for Russia to expand its sphere of influence and consolidate power over the region – pulling out allows the US to contain Russian expansion**
**Steff 10— Intern, Centre for Strategic Studies. Dissertation on ballistic missiles and deterrence. MA, IR (Reuben, The Russian Resurgence, America and the Great Crisis of 2010, 7 January 2010, http://www.scoop.co.nz/stories/HL1001/S00022.htm,)**

Well 2010 will be a period of consolidation … Iran and the US remains impossible. 

**This cause a US Russian nuke war**
**Eland, 2008 [Ivan, Nov, Sr. Fellow, Independent Inst., former Defense Analyst for Congressional Budget Office, The Independent Institute,<span style="background-position: 100% 50%; padding-right: 10px;">[[http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2363]]</span>]**

But the bear is now coming … possibly even cataclysmic war. 

**Extinctoin**
**Bostrom- Too Lazy to put it but u know how it goes**


==Oceans DA== 

**Withdrawing TNWs requires ocean transport – this risks accidents that irradiate the oceans**
**Marin 1 (Lawrence, Partner – Foley Hoag LLP, “Oceanic Transportation of Radioactive Materials: The Conflict Between the Law of the Seas' Right of Innocent Passage and Duty to the Marine Environment”, Florida Journal of International Law, Summer, 13 Fla. J. Int'l L. 361, Lexis)**

With the end of World War II, the world … to produce devastating weapons is very real.


**Collapse of ocean ecosystems ends life on Earth**
**Craig 3 (Robin Kundis, Associate Prof Law,**
**Indiana U School Law, Lexis)**

Biodiversity and ecosystem function … we kill ourselves, and we will take most of the biosphere with us.


==**Start DA**== 
**[INSERT UNIQUENESS]**

**Plan costs capital – trades off with Obama’s agenda KUPCHAN 10 Professor of Int’l Affairs at Georgetown & Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations [Charles A. Kupchan, Enemies Into Friends, Foreign Affairs, 00157120, Mar/Apr2010, Vol. 89, Issue 2]**

IF THE Obama administration's ...and risk coming back empty-handed. 

**Relations solve Terrorism, Prolif, Warming, Diseases – avoids a war [Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force for Russia, Chaired by John Edwards and Jack Kemp, “RUSSIA’S WRONG DIRECTION: WHAT THE UNITED STATES CAN AND SHOULD DO,” http://www.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/Russia_TaskForce.pdf]**

Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, American ....relations with Russia are on a positive track.

==North Korean Invasion DA== 


**Withdrawal will cause North Korea invasion of Seoul – even the libertarians agree**
**Huessy, 03 – Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states (8/13/2003, Peter, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560, JMP)**

However, Carpenter has long advocated a unilateral withdrawal of our U.S. forces from the Republic of Korea, under the g of arguing that such a reduction of U.S. forces would save tax-payer dollars, as well as U.S. lives, should there be an armed conflict on the Korean Peninsula. In fact, Carpenter, in conversations I have... by Patrick Robinson in Kilo Class.



**Will escalate to global nuclear war**
**Huessy, 03 – Senior Defense Associate at National Defense University Foundation who specializes in nuclear weapons, missile defense, terrorism and rogue states (8/13/2003, Peter, “Realism on the Korean Peninsula: Real Threats, Real Dangers,” http://www.nationalinterest.org/Article.aspx?id=18560, JMP)**

It may be wishful thinking, but ...reason it should be supported.



==Japan Rearm DA== 

Troop withdrawal causes Japan nuclearization – undermines security credibility – Cold War proves
Yoshihara and **<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Holmes, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">associate professors of strategy at the U.S. Naval War College</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, 09 </span></span>(Toshi and James R. “Thinking about the unthinkable: Tokyo's nuclear option”, Summer 200**
9**, Naval War College Review, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_3_62/ai_n32144580)**

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Indeed, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">historical precedents in Cold .... </span></span><span style="font-size: 16px; font-weight: normal; line-height: 24px;">possibility of a Japanese nuclear option.</span>**


Japanese nuclearization triggers a regional arms race causing nuclear war

**<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Interfax, 06</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, ( “Nuclear Japan Would Trigger Terrible Arms Race in Asia,” http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/a-list/2006-November/063410.html) </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The emergence of nuclear weapons ... </span></span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">use of such weapons</span></span>," he said</span>**





==<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;">Japan Rearm DA (vs. Vestavia)</span>== 



**U.S. military presence in Okinawa prevents Japanese rearmament and arms races**
**[[#_Toc141422232]]<span class="citebold"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">03</span></span> (Eric, <span style="color: black;">Asian Studies Newsletter [[http://www.aasianst.org/Viewpoints/Vogel.htm]]) </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Why is the Tokyo government ready to pay ....</span>without carefully considering the consequences.**






Japanese nuclearization triggers a regional arms race causing nuclear war

**<span class="TagsChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Interfax, 06</span></span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, ( “Nuclear Japan Would Trigger Terrible Arms Race in Asia,” http://lists.econ.utah.edu/pipermail/a-list/2006-November/063410.html)</span> <span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The emergence of nuclear weapons ... </span></span><span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 19px;"><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">use of such weapons</span></span>," he said</span></span>**
=**Kritiks**= 



==Nietzsche K== 
===1nc=== 

**Mutually exclusive values mean there will always be war. When the mission of statehood is extended it escalates that warfare, as those who have embraced the liberal order feel justified in waging war on outsiders**
<span class="Author-Date">Rasch <span style="font-weight: normal;">Henry H. H. Remak Professor of Germanic Studies at Indiana University</span> 3 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[William , Cultural Critique 54 (2003) 120-147, Human Rights as Geopolitics  Carl Schmitt and the Legal Form of American Supremacy]</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">In the past, we/they</span></span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">neighbor/foreigner, </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">friend/enemy polarities....</span></span>their outlaw status is their insistence on autonomy, on sovereignty.


<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Your Impacts are inevitable. The 1ac’s attempts to control the world results in extinction. The alternative is a negative gesture of indifference— accept the world as it is. Admitting that everything is dangerous allows for effective policymaking and solves nuclear war. </span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">Der Derian <span style="font-weight: normal;">Political Science Professor at University of Massachusetts</span> 98 <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">[James, On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security]</span></span>


<span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">No other concept</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> in international relations </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">packs...</span>and identities calcifying into a fearful sameness</span><span class="DebateUnderline">.</span>

===<span class="DebateUnderline">2nc</span>=== 
governance assumes that problems can be solved through linear solutions – its not that easy – the result is serial policy failure
<span class="Author-Date"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dillon & Reid </span><span style="font-size: 12pt; font-weight: normal;">Lecturers on International Politics</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> 2000</span></span> <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Michael and Julian, Lecturer at the University of Lancaster and Lecturer on International Politics at University of London, Alternatives: Social Transformation and Humane Governance, Vol. 25 Is. 1, January-March]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">Serial policy failure is no simple shortcoming that science and policy--....</span><span style="font-size: 9px; line-height: 13px;">biomolecular as well as Foucauldian "biopower" ways.</span>



<span style="display: block; margin-left: 0.5in; text-align: left; text-indent: -0.25in;">The alt dodges the resentment created by moral absolutes and creates an existence of generosity – solves the aff. </span>
Schoeman <span style="font-weight: normal;">Professor of Philosophy at University of Pretoria </span>7 <span style="font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;">[Marinus, "Generosity as a central virtue in Nietzsche's ethics," South African Journal of Philosophy, April, http://cogprints.org/5466/1/Schoeman.pdf]</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">For Nietzsche </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">the truly</span></span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">virtuous</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">noble</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> human beings </span></span><span class="DebateHighlighted"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">are those....</span></span><span class="DebateUnderline">. </span><span class="DebateHighlighted">an existence characterized by generosity </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">and magnanimity.</span>



=<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Heg Good K</span></span>= 

The 1ac functions as a criticism of the status quo US foreign policy creating a rhetoric that risks unraveling the current unipolar world. Each criticism contributes to neo-isolationist tendencies that create a potential foil to American predominance.
<span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt;">KAGAN 98</span> <span style="color: black; font-size: 10pt; font-weight: normal;">senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace</span><span style="color: black; font-size: 7pt; font-weight: normal;"> [Robert, “The Benevolent Empire,” __Foreign Policy__, summer]</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">Those contributing to the growing chorus of antihegemony....</span></span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">champagne corks in celebration of the next American humbling</span>**<span style="color: black;">.</span>**


Threats are inevitable – if the US calls a timeout, the world is doomed – conflicts will escalate and natural disaster victims will be left to die
Thayer, professor of security studies at Missouri State, <span style="font-size: 7pt;">November </span>06 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Bradley, The National Interest, “In Defense of Primacy”, November/December, p. 32-37)</span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">A grand strategy based on American primacy means ensuring the United States stays the world's.....</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">U</span></span><span style="color: black;">nited </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span></span><span style="color: black;">tates </span><span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">humanitarian mis­sions are the equivalent of a blitzkrieg</span></span><span style="color: black;">.</span>


Even if the current world sucks – the alternative is worse - The collapse of US heg causes a multipolar vacuum leading to multiple scenarios for extinction
Ferguson <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Professor of History at New York University's Stern School of Business and Senior fellow at the Hoover Institution</span> – 2004 <span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Niall, “A world without power,” Foreign Policy 143, p. 32-39, July-August] </span>

<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">So what is left? <span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial;">Waning empires. Religious revivals.....</span></span></span><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">would benefit from such a not-so-new world disorder</span>


<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The alternative is to reject the aff as a signal of commitment to US imperial resolve. </span></span>

It is necessary to maintain support for US hegemony because our academic discourse actually effects foreign policy
MEARSHEIMER 95 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Professor of Political Science and the co-director of the Program on International Security Policy at the University of Chicago. West Point graduate, retired Air Force officer </span>
<span class="smallChar"><span style="font-size: 6pt;">(John, Professor Political Science at the University of Chicago, International Security, Summer, p. 93) </span></span>


<span class="DebateUnderline"><span style="background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-origin: initial; font-size: 12pt;">The discussion of institutions up to now has a distinct academic flavor</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span></span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> .... </span><span style="font-size: 16px; line-height: 24px;">until they have solid evidence to support their positions</span>

<span style="color: black;">.</span>





==Security K== 



**<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">The affirmatives disaster scenarios are mere constructions of threats that foster an environment of unending securitization. David Grondin, Masters in Political Science and Ph.D. Candidate – University of Ottawa, 2004, (“(Re)Writing the ‘National Security State,’ Center for United States Studies, p. 12-17) Neorealist and neoclassical realism offer themselves ....the state’s very conditions of existence are generated18. The construction of threats ensures any agencies of power to authorize force including annihilation and genocide Coviello 2000 (Peter, Assist. Prof. of English @ Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations, "Apocalypse from Now On") Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed ....initiative that can scarcely be done without Vote neg to reject the 1ac’s securitized discourse. Critical praxis outweighs policy making - voting affirmative guarantees error replication. Only a radical break from dominant paradigms can avoid becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy Graeme Cheeseman, Snr. Lecturer @ New South Wales, and Robert Bruce Assoc. Prof in social sciences @ Curtin univ, ‘96 (Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9) This goal is pursued in ways which are still unconventional ...or choose not to understand them, and why?</span>**



===2nc cards=== 


**Genocide= :(**
**Coviello 2000** (Peter, Assist. Prof. of English @ Bowdoin College, Queer Frontiers: Millennial Geographies, Genders, and Generations, "Apocalypse from Now On")


<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 6pt;">Apocalypse, as I began by saying, changed...</span><span style="font-size: 8px; line-height: 12px;">civic initiative that can scarcely be done without.</span>


**Realism is a self-fulfilling prophecy --- states create the rules of the international system --- if they act differently, the system adapts.**
**Wendt** **1999 –** Alexander, Associate Professor of Political Science at Yale, Social Theory of International Politics, p. 331-2.

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">The underlying logic here is the self-fulfilling prophecy....</span>__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: yellow; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">each other to be</span>__, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">and the kind of anarchy they will make</span>.



FIRST - Representations are intrinsically tied to policy action. Separation of discourse and representations from policy debate is impossible and discourse shapes the way these policies are enacted Doty, Assistant professor of Political Science at Arizona State University, 96 (“Imperial Encounters” page 5-6)




**Even if they win that their impacts are real, it only masks the root cause—questioning the securitization of the 1AC solves**
**Mack**, former prof, **91**—former prof at Harvard Medical School. MD in Psychiatry. (John E., Psychodynamics of International Relationships Vol 1 p. 58-59)

__<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: silver; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Attempts to explore the psychological roots of enmity are...</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 7pt;">we never labor to asses his will with anything approaching objectivity.”</span>__



__Thayer’s argument is based off a misreading of Dawkins and ignores the role of environmental factors in determining human behavior__

**Busser, 06** (Mark, Masters candidate at NYU. “The Evolution of Security: Revisiting the Human Nature Debate in International Relations” http://www.yorku.ca/yciss/publications/documents/WP40-Busser.pdf)

<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">The political and philosophical debates that surround sociobiology in general are the least of the problems with Bradley Thayer’s article. In fact, Thayer’s argument is exactly the sort of reading of sociobiology about which its critics like Lewontin and Gould have been uncomfortably anticipating. Worse</span></span>**,** __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Thayer’s exercise demonstrates a misreading of</span> many <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">evolutionary arguments</span>__ <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">drawing conclusions with which the theorists he cites would likely distance themselves.</span></span> __His argument about an egoistic human nature relies on a tiresomely common oversimplification of “a classic Darwinist argument,”__ <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">crudely linking natural selection to the assumption that selfishness encourages evolutionary fitness; Even Thayer feels the need to qualify this argument in a footnote.49 Thayer’s citation of Richard Dawkins’ selfish gene theory to provide “the second sufficient explanation for egoism” is also incredibly problematic.50 In The Selfish Gene, Dawkins suggests that at the beginning of micro-organic life genes that promoted survival were key to making basic life-forms into simple ‘survival machines.’</span></span> __Rather than viewing genes as an organism’s tool for generating, <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Dawkins suggests that it is wiser to look at the development of</span> complex <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">organisms as genes’ method of replicating themselves. The word selfish is used as</span> a <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">shorthand</span> to describe a more complex phenomenon: genes that give their organic vessel advantages in survival and reproduction__<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;"> are successfully transmitted into future generations.51 However,</span></span> __<span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">an important part of Dawkins’ work is that the ‘selfishness’ of genes translates into decidedly unselfish behaviours</span>__**.** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">Dawkins himself has had to distance himself from groups who interpreted his focus on kin selection as a reification of ethnocentrism: The National Front was saying something like this, “kin selection provides the basis for favoring your own race as distinct from other races, as a kind of generalization of favoring your own close family as opposed to other individuals.” Kin selection doesn’t do that! Kin selection favors nepotism towards your own immediate close family. It does not favor a generalization of nepotism towards millions of other people who happen to be the same color as you.52</span></span> __In light of a careful consideration of the intricacies of Dawkin’s thinking, Thayer’s treatment of his theories seems remarkably crude and shallow__**.** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">Broad conclusions seem to materialize as if from thin air:</span></span> __“In general,” Thayer writes, “the selfishness of the gene increases its fitness, and so the behaviour spreads.”53 This line, crucial to Thayer’s point, is such a brazen oversimplification and misinterpretation of Dawkin’s work that <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">Thayer’s arguments about a provable natural human egoism are rendered</span> essentially <span style="background-attachment: initial; background-clip: initial; background-color: lime; background-image: initial; background-origin: initial; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;">baseless in terms of scientific evidence</span>.__ <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">Thayer’s argument about the ubiquity of hierarchical structures of power rely on a dichotomous hypothetical choice between eternal</span></span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">conflict and structures of dominance. </span>__The suggestion that the ubiquity of maledominated hierarchies ‘contributes to fitness’ in the present tense comes dangerously close to naturalizing and reifying patriarchal structures of human social organization__**.**<span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">54 As presented, the argument reads very much like Hobbes’ Leviathan, in which pre-social actors sought the refuge and protection of a larger social order. In many ways, Thayer seems to be reconstructing the Leviathan using sociobiology rather clumsily to justify broad generalizations. It is certain that some mix of biology and culture have led to male-dominated cultures in the past, and there is a strong basis for the argument that humans have developed a need to belong to social groups. It is also clear that humans have the mental capacity to understand and technologies for operating within dominance hierarchies. Yet these possibilities together do not suggest, contrary to Thayer’s argument, that “humans readily give allegiance to the state, or embrace religion or ideologies such as liberalism or communism, because evolution has produced a need to belong to a dominance hierarchy.”55</span></span> __If humans do depend on social connectedness, must this necessarily come in the form of hierarchical, patriarchal structures? The case is not made convincingly__**.** <span class="Heading3Char"><span style="font-size: 9pt; font-weight: normal;">As I shall discuss below, alternate understandings of the connection between basic human needs, human culture, and environmental stresses can provide an understanding of dominance hierarchies that does not naturalize their ubiquity. </span></span>




=**Impact Turns**= 
==Free Trade Bad**== 

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Free trade causes water marketing that exacerbates resource wars across the globe</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Barlow, ‘1 – Chairs the Council of Canadians, founding co-chair of Action Canada Network Blue Gold (Maude, Spring, "Blue Gold : The Global Water Crisis and the Commodificationof the Worlds Water Supply," www.wellnessgoods.com/bluegold.asp, RG)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Proponents say that such a ....of the world water crisis.</span>


<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Water wars unleash 60,000 nukes</span>
<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Weiner ’90 – Pulitzer Prize winning author (Jonathan, “The Next One Hundred Years”, p. 270)</span>

<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">If we do not destroy ...the world has stockpiled since Trinity.</span>


==<span style="margin: 0px; padding: 0px;">Warming Good</span>== 

Increased CO2 is key to crop fertilization that sustains biodiversity and prevents famine
Idso & Idso 07 Research Physicist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service, Vice President of the Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change with a PhD in Botany, former Director of Environmental Science at Peabody Energy in St. Louis, Missouri and is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Geophysical Union, American Meteorological Society, Arizona-Nevada Academy of Sciences, Association of American Geographers, Ecological Society of America, and The Honor Society of Phi Kappa Phi
[Sherwood & Craig, Carbon Dioxide and Global Change: Separating Scientific Fact from Personal Opinion, The Center for the Study of Carbon Dioxide and Global Change (http://co2science.org/education/reports/hansen/HansenTestimonyCritique.pdf) p. 17-19]

How much land can ten billion people spare … the biosphere in the process.


Failure to meet grain demand will cause food price volatility – two billion will die
Roberts 06 Project Coordinator of the Toronto Food Policy Council
[Wayne, Grain Drain: Get Ready for Peak Grain, Energy Bulletin, 10-31 (http://www.energybulletin.net/node/21815)]

Unless this year’s harvest is unexpectedly … also commonplace during the 1970s.


Famine sparks World War 3
Calvin 98 Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the University of Washington
[William H., January, The Great Climate Flip-Flop, The Atlantic Monthly, Ebsco Host]

The population-crash scenario is surely … extra warming from the North Atlantic.


These conflicts go nuclear
Klare 06 Professor of Peace and World Security Studies at Hampshire College
[Michael, The Coming Resource Wars, 3-11 (http://www.waterconserve.org/shared/reader/welcome.aspx?linkid=53710&keybold=water%20land%20conflict)]

"As famine, disease, and weather-related … involvement in these forms of conflict.


Diner 94 Judge Advocate General’s Corps of US Army
[David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, Lexis Nexis]

No species has ever dominated its … may be edging closer to the abyss.

==<span style="font-size: 18px; line-height: 27px;">High Oil Prices Good</span>== 

===Iraq Instability=== 


High prices key to Iraqi stability – forces cooperation among major players
Friedman 08 PhD, Founder and CEO of Stratfor
(George, 5-27, The Geopolitics of $130 Oil, Stratfor Geopolitical Intelligence Report, http://www.stratfor.com/weekly/geopolitics_130_oil.)

Suddenly, the regional dynamics have changed. …are decidedly secondary to these considerations.


===Russia Economy=== 


Lowered oil prices devastate the Russian economy
Skidelsky 07 Professor of Political Economy at the University of Warwick
(Robert, Putin’s Patrimony, Prospect, Lexis)

As we know, the Russian economy … real estate boom, buoyed up by oil.

Russian economic instability causes accidental nuclear war
David 99 Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University
(Steven R., Saving America from the Coming Civil Wars, Foreign Affairs, January/February, Lexis)

If internal war does strike Russia, …develop an effective defense against missile attacks.

===<span style="white-space: pre;">Warming </span>=== 

High prices spur development of alternative energy – solving warming Yetiv 06 Professor of Political Science and International Studies at Old Dominion University (Steve, 2-6, America benefits from high oil prices, San Diego Union-Tribune, http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/20060206/news_mz1e6yetiv.html)

In particular, what can high oil … when oil starts to dwindle in the future.

And, rapid warming destroys the planet Brandenberg & Paxon 99 Ph.D. Physicist and Science Writer (John and Monica, Dead Mars, Dying Earth, p. 232-3)

The ozone hole expands, driven by…, with perhaps a few hardy microbes surviving.

==Terrorism Good== 
1. No extinction from terrorism
Schneier, 5-5-2010 - masters degree in computer science from American University, chief technology officer and founder of BT Counterpane Internet Security (Bruce, “Why Aren't There More Terrorist Attacks?”, Schneier on Security, May 5th, http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2010/05/why_arent_there.html)

As the details of the … slip up and get caught.

Terrorism is Good –
2. Turn – China Bashing
A. Terrorism solves China bashing
Economy, 04 Elizabeth Economy, Director of Asia Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, June, ‘4 (Don't Break the Engagement, Foreign Affairs, Vol. 83, Iss. 3, p. Proquest)

After almost three years of … the way its advocates predicted.

B. China-bashing crushes US-Sino relations – spills over to other issues
Hathaway, 02 (Robert M., Dir – Asia Program, Wilson International Center for Scholars, Promoting Human Rights in China, National Bureau of Asia Research, Vol 13, No 1)

The U.S.-China relationship is likely … the face of perceived U.S. pressure.

C. US-Sino relations solve multiple scenarios for nuclear war and environmental destruction
Desperes, 01 (John Desperes, Fellow, RAND Corporation. “China, the United States, and the Global Economy.” p. 227-8)

Indeed, U.S.-Chinese relations have been … atmosphere and currently endangered species.


3. Turn – Economy
A. Terrorist attack will pull the US out of recession
Mieszkowski, 01, Senior Staff Writer for Salon, (9/21/01 , http://archive.salon.com/tech/feature/2001/09/21/fiscal_stimulus/index.html)

Will last week's terrorist attacks … takes to prevent a sustained recession."

B. Continued decline causes World War Three
Mead, 09 - senior fellow for U.S. foreign policy at the Council on Foreign Relations (Walter Russell, 2/4/09, The New Republic, “Only Makes You Stronger,” http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2 AD 6/30/09)

Frequently, the crisis has weakened … may still have to fight

4. Turn – Free Trade
A. Terrorism increases free trade between countries
Alberto Abadie and Javier Gardeazabal, January 2008, Abadie is a professor of Public Policy at Harvard University and has a PhD in Economics from MIT. Gardeazabal is a professor at Universidad del Pais Vasco. “Terrorism and the World Economy.” Written for the European Economic Review, Volume 52, Issue 1, pg. 21

In this paper we have … which terrorism hurts the economy.

B. Solves war
Griswold 98, Associated Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the CATO Institute, 98 (Daniel, “Peace on Earth, Free Trade for Men,” 31 Dec, http://www.cato.org/dailys/12-31-98.html)

Advocates of free trade have … pursue a policy of free trade.

5. Turn – Heg
A. Terrorism is key to heg
DuBoff, 03 Prof. Economics at Bryn Mawr College (Richard, “US hegemony: Continuing Decline, Enduring Danger,” http://home.aubg.bg/students/SIG020/)

Nowadays, cooperation among states is … power on the international arena.


B. Collapse of hegemony results in apolarity, risking multiple scenarios for nuclear war
Ferguson, 04- Senior fellow at the Hoover Institution (Niall, 2004 “A world without power,” Foreign Policy 143, July-August, p. 32-39)

For more than two decades, … such a not-so-new world disorder.

6. Turn – NMD
A. Terrorism leads to the creation of a National Missile Defense 9-11 proves
Tertrais, 01 Fondation pour la Recherche Stratégique, The Cicero Foundation (Bruno, 12/24, What are the Strategic and Geopolitical Consequences of the "War Against Terrorism"?, http://www.cicerofoundation.org/lectures/tertrais_dec01.html, AG)

Other trends that are or … bolster the missile defense project.

B. Prevents nuclear conflicts
Investor's Business Daily 07 (11/7/20, “Missile Defense Before It's Too Late” http://www.investors.com/editorial/editorialcontent.asp?secid=1501&status=article&id=279331529327444&secure=770)

Is it possible that Democrats … a real life-and-death struggle.

7. Turn – Russian Relations
A. U.S.-Russian relations are on the brink- only terrorism can bring the countries back together.
Hooson, 08 , former lobbyist and writer for Progressive Values (Paul, “New Wave of Terrorism may Draw Russia & U.S. closer again,” 11-30, http://wizbangblue.com/2008/11/30/new-wave-of-terrorism-may-draw-russia-us-closer-again.php]

Interestingly, VOICE OF RUSSIA, the Russian news-service … violence, then this may well provide the common ground required for better relations between the states.
Interestingly, VOICE OF RUSSIA, the … better relations between the states.

B. Rebuilding high level ties prevents a war of miscalculation that would cause extinction
Cirincone, 07 Center for American Progress expert in nonproliferation, national security, international security, U.S. military, U.S. foreign policy (Joseph Cirincione, July 23rd, 2007, “Nuclear summer)

The first jolt came June 3, … any further negotiated nuclear reductions.


===2NC Cards=== 

And their impacts are exaggerated—the death toll since 9-11 is extremely low
Mueller, 06 (John, Professor of Political Science at Ohio State University, Foreign Affairs, Sep/Oct)

But while keeping such potential … an enemy that scarcely exists.


Historically proven
Fan Gang, 04 professor of economics at Bejing University (10/20/04, “the Failure of China Bashing”, Project Syndicate, http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/fang7/English)

There is no hiding these … their view of China accordingly.


More ev – China bashing hurts relations
Wen Huang, 03 writer for South China Morning Post, October 22, 2003, Pg. 17

This could backfire and be counterproductive. China may respond in kind because President Hu Jintao faces pressure from the patriotic Chinese public to stand up to the "US imperialists". China-bashing will further fuel the anti -American sentiment, leading to tension in Sino-US relations. The fallout could jeopardise US efforts on fighting terrorism, the multilateral talks on the North Korean nuclear crisis, and productive Sino-US trade negotiations.


The alternative is extinction
Coyne and Hoekstra, 07 – *Professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at the University of Chicago AND ** Associate Professor in the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at Harvard University (*Jerry and *Hopi, “The Greatest Dying”, The New Republic, September 24th 2007, June 26th 2010, http://www.truthout.org/article/jerry-coyne-and-hopi-e-hoekstra-the-greatestdying, KONTOPOULOS)

Every year, up to 30,000 species … greatest dying of them all.

US-Sino cooperation solves proliferation
American Assembly, 98 (“China - U.S. Relations in the Twenty-First Century - After Two Summits, Goals for the 21st Century: Phase III.” http://www.americanassembly.org/programs.dir/prog_display_ind_pg.php?this_filename_prefix=china_us_3&this_ind_prog_pg_filename=report)

China and the United States … the requisite habits of cooperation.

Proliferation causes extinction
Utgoff, 02 - Deputy Director for Strategy, Forces, and Resources at the Institute for Defense Analyses, (Summer, Victor, Survival, “Proliferation, Missile Defense and American Ambitions”, Volume 44, Number 2, p. 87-90)

Widespread proliferation is likely to … cities or even whole nations.



=Impact Defense= 


==China War== 


War with China won’t happen – They don’t have enough power and it’s not in their interest.
Brzezinski 05 Natl Sec. Adv. in Carter Administration, Prof. of Foreign Policy at J. Hopkins U [Zbigniew “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership” (p118-120)]

Most importantly, the Chinese know better … ncluding the dynamic South Korea – to become engaged.

Fear of nationalist uprising deters war.
Dr. Michael E. Marti, 02, Senior Fellow at the Center for the Study of Chinese Military Affairs at the Institute for Strategic Studies at National Defense University, September 2002, “China’s Taiwan Policy: Carrot and Stick,” http://www.dsis.org.tw/peaceforum/papers/2002-09/CSP0209001e.pdf

In addition to the Bush Administration’s … a stockpile to hold the rest of the world at bay.

No US-China war – Economic interdependence checks.
Goldstein and Murray 04 [Lyle Goldstein & William Murray, Professors at the US Naval War College, 2004, International Security, Vol 28, no. 4, Spring, p. 195-6]

Far from inevitable, the possibility … face China’s rise with eyes wide open.

==CMR== 


Civilian control of military high now.
Owens, 2003 (Mackubin Thomas, associate dean of academics and professor of national security affairs at the Naval War College, 7/17, http://www.nationalreview.com/owens/owens071703.asp)

It would be an understatement … Founders of the United States.

Multiple alternate causality to civilian control.
Sarkesian, 1998 (Sam C, professor emeritus of political science at Loyola University Chicago and served for over twenty years as an officer in the U.S. Army, Orbis, Vol. 42, Issue 3, Summer, ebsco)

But even if those who … little or no experience with military life.(n34)

Gap inevitable – Military doctrines.
Cohen 2k. Former Secretary of Defense. Eliot A. Cohen. Why the Gap Matters - gap between military and civilian world. The National Interest. http://www.dtic.mil/miled/pamphlet/AFO18.pdf.

The major doctrinal statements … then get out of the way.

Impact is exaggerated.
Cohen 2k. Former Secretary of Defense. Eliot A. Cohen. Why the Gap Matters - gap between military and civilian world. The National Interest. http://www.dtic.mil/miled/pamphlet/AFO18.pdf.

THE PARADOX of increased social … vilian control entails. What are the solutions?

==Economy== 


The economy is resilient – It overcame worse downturn events, and it’s empirically proven.
Behravesh 06 -Chief Economist @ Newsweek- ["The Great Shock Absorber"]

Jan. 16, 2006 issue - The U.S. and … mpact on overall GDP growth.


Economic decline doesn’t cause war – Their chain of causation is backwards.
Ferguson 06 (Niall, prof. of history, Foreign Affairs, “The Next War of the World”, lexis)

Nor can economic crises explain the bloodshed… crises were not followed by wars.


Even if we hit a recession, fed and treasury policy would check – Functionally unlimited funds.
Isidore – 9/30/08 (Chris, CNN Money, “No bailout? Here's Plan B”, http://money.cnn.com/2008/09/30/news/economy/plan_b/?postversion=2008093016)

A day after the … unfreeze troubled credit markets.

==Warming Bad== 


No warming – History and scientific study prove. Scientists exaggerate studies to get research grants.
Jaworowski 08 Chairman of Scientific Council of the Central Laboratory for Radiological Protection in Warsaw, Chair of UN Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation [Prof. Zbigniew “Fear Propaganda” http://www.ourcivilisation.com/aginatur/cycles/chap3.htm]

Doomsayers preaching the horrors … hurricanes over the Atlantic Ocean (Figure 4,) and worldwide.

Scientists exaggerate warming impacts and manipulate their studies to receive research funding.
Michaels 04 Senior Fellow in Environmental Studies at the Cato Institute and Professor of Environmental Science at the University of Virginia [Patrick J., “Is Global Warming Always Bad?” Apple Daily. November 7 http://www.cato.org/pub_display.php?pub_id=2872]

Perhaps because there's little … be such a problem after all.



==Russia Conflict== 



Russia would never go to war against the U.S. – Russians won’t risk it.
Aron 07, Resident scholar and the director of Russian Studies at AEI, 6/29 (Leon, The United States and Russia, http://aei.org/publications/pubID.24606,filter.all/pub_detail.asp)

Yet the probability of a frontal confrontation … one-eleventh of what the U.S. spent ($522 billion).[18]


Times have changed – Russia has zero capacity to lash out an Armageddon.
Lieber and Press 06 Keir A. Lieber and Daryl G. Press, from Foreign Affairs, March/April 2006, “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy” http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20060301faessay85204/keir-a-lieber-daryl-g-press/the-rise-of-u-s-nuclear-primacy.html

For almost half a century, … nuclear primacy for many years to come.


Russia has zero capacity for war – Military, economy, and population capacity is severely limited.
James M. Goldgeier and Michael McFaul 05 October 10 (George Washington U and Stanford U, from CAEI: Argentine Center of International Studies, “What to Do About Russia” http://www.caei.com.ar/es/programas/cei/P01.pdf)

Given this constellation of … hovers below 150 million and is rapidly declining.

No U.S. Russia nuke war – Conflicts won’t escalate.
Nichols 02 [World Policy Journal, chairman of the dept of strategy and policy at the US Naval War college. http://www.worldpolicy.org/journal/articles/wpj04-1/nichols.html]

The price of failing to seize the opportunity … striven to create since 1991.



==Water Wars== 

===1NC=== 


Their authors exaggerate the impacts.
Nicol 03, Alan: political scientist specializing in the water sector[“The dynamics of river basin cooperation: The Nile and the Okavango basins,” http://www.odi.org.uk/wpp/publications_pdfs/Okavango.pdf]

The issue of water and conflict is … outstrip those of dispute and conflict (for a comprehensive listing of agreements and treaties see www.transboundarywaters.orst.edu).

Water wars don’t escalate.
Wolf 97, Aaron T. Wolf: Ph.D., professor of geoscience at Oregon State University [“Conflict and Cooperation Over International Waterways,” http://www.transboundarywaters.orst.edu/publications/conflict_coop/]

This paper investigates the reality of … violence only in the exception.

Alternate causality –
A. Infrastructure.
Conca 06, Ken: Associate Professor of Government and Politics at the University of Maryland [“The New Face of Water Conflict,” Environmental Change and Security Program, http://www.earthscape.org/p1/ES2_10659/10659.pdf]

Capital-intensive water infrastructure projects—… in China, India, Pakistan, Colombia, Kenya, and Somalia.

B. Poor governance.
SIWA 2005. “Challenges of Water Security,” Stockholm International Water Institute, http://www.siwi.org/documents/Resources/Reports/Challenges_water_scarcity_business_case_study_2005.pdf.

A considerable challenge to … enforce regulation concerning water management issues

===2NC=== 


No risk of water wars.
Deen 07 [Thalif, IPS, Aug 25, “Water Wars a Myth,” IPS online]

"Despite the potential problem, history… , Annika Kramer, Alexander Carius and Geoffrey Dabelko.

Water wars unlikely: no benefit.
Wolf 97, Aaron T. Wolf: Ph.D., professor of geoscience at Oregon State University [“Conflict and Cooperation Over International Waterways,” http://www.transboundarywaters.orst.edu/publications/conflict_coop/]

If one were to launch a war over water, … as accepting the rationale for launching one.

Dramatic scenarios of water wars lack foundation.
International Herald Tribute 04 [“Roots of conflict : Don't blame environmental decay for the next war,” http://www.iht.com/articles/2004/11/22/ednils_ed3_.php]

In fact, speculation about "water wars" … water led to large-scale violence.