=Affirmative= 
[[toc]]
==Real 1AC== 

<span class="CardChar">**<span style="font-size: 36pt; line-height: 115%;">[C]</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">ontention 1: Drug Trade</span></span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">There is a large Central Intelligence Agency presence in Afghanistan</span></span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Miller ’09</span></span> Greg CIA expanding presence in Afghanistan MA ’93, is a national security correspondent for the //Los Angeles Times.// Assigned to cover U.S. intelligence operations shortly after 9/11, Miller went to Afghanistan in early spring of 2002, where he persuaded the Army to allow him access to U.S. interrogators questioning captured Al Qaeda and Taliban prisoners—the only reporter given such access. Although never allowed to observe interrogations—he was always accompanied by a military chaperone, Miller says—he found the interrogators eager to share their stories and had a rare glimpse into intelligence-gathering methods and culture September 20, 2009 The buildup coincides with new warnings that the Taliban has continued to gain territory and strength. McChrystal wants to improve intelligence on the Taliban and focus on reducing the number of bombings. http://www.stanfordalumni.org/news/magazine/2004/novdec/features/miller.html
<span class="UnderlineChar">The CIA is deploying...which tracks military threats.</span>

The CIA’s presence in Afghanistan initiated the drug trade of opium and heroin and they continue to be the source of it.
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Scott ’10</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;"> (Peter Dale Scott, April 12, 2010, “Opium, the CIA, and the Karzai Administration”, Peter Dale Scott, a former Canadian diplomat and English Professor at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of Drugs Oil and War, The Road to 9/11, and The War Conspiracy: JFK, 9/11, and the Deep Politics of War. His book, Fueling America's War Machine: Deep Politics and the CIA’s Global Drug Connection is in press, due Fall 2010 from Rowman & Littlefield, History News Network, </span>[[http://hnn.us/articles/125230.html]]<span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">)</span></span>
<span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Since Alfred McCoy …Iran and Baluchistan.</span></span>

**The CIA has empirically been the catalyst for drug production in Afghanistan**
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">McCoy ‘10</span></span>(Alfred W., March 30, 2010 Alfred W. McCoy is the J.R.W. Smail Professor of History at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is the author of The Politics of Heroin: CIA Complicity in the Global Drug Trade, which probes the conjuncture of illicit narcotics and covert operations over half a century. His latest book, Policing America's Empire: The United States, the Philippines, and the Rise of the Surveillance State, explores the influence of overseas counterinsurgency operations on the spread of internal security measures at home, “Can Anyone Pacify Afghanistan, the World’s Number One Narco-State?”, History News Network, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.hnn.us/articles/125034.html]]</span>)
<span class="UnderlineChar">Opium first emerged..regime in Kabul.</span>


<span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">We’ll isolate several scenarios:</span></span>


<span class="CardChar">**<span style="font-size: 36pt; line-height: 115%;">[S]</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">cenario 1: Corruption</span></span>

**Drug trade is the root cause of corruption and Taliban power**
<span class="AuthorDateChar">NSN ‘08</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;"> (National Security Network The National Security Network (NSN) was founded in June 2006 to revitalize America's national security policy, bringing cohesion and strategic focus to the progressive national security community. NSN's 2,000 members and experts represent the emerging generation of foreign policy leaders. With a wealth of experience in government service, the private sector and the non-profit sector, our members and experts combine a sophisticated and nuanced understanding of the challenges facing the United States with a fresh and innovative perspective on foreign policy., </span>[[http://www.nsnetwork.org/node/858]]<span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">, AD: 7/7/10)</span></span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">In plain view of the United States...and buy support.</span>


<span class="UnderlineChar">Corruption guts government legitimacy; heres why:</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Subpoint A: </span>Capacity. Corruption saps it at all levels. 
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Caulkins, Kleiman, and Kulick ‘10</span> <span class="CiteChar">[Jonathan P. Caulkins, Mark A.R. Kleiman, Jonathan D. Kulick, Caulkins is a professor of operations research and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University, Kleiman is a professor of public policy at the UCLA school of public affairs, and Kulick is the Director of studies at the Georgia Foundation of Strategic and International Studies, [“Drug Production and Trafficking, Counterdrug Policies, and Security and Governance in Afghanistan June 2010,” NYU Center on International Cooperation, available at: </span><span class="CiteChar">[[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/]]</span><span class="CiteChar">] </span><span class="UnderlineChar">The legally recognized...in the world.</span>


Perception of government illegitimacy ignites civil war which spills over to India and Pakistan, sparking nuclear war and insecurity of weapons facilities.
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Khan ’03</span> <span class="CiteChar">(Zillur R., Prof U Wisconsin Oshkosh, World Affairs, 6-22, Chairman of RC 37 of International Political Science Association, President of Bangladesh Foundation and Adjunct Professor at Rollins College in USA. For his contributions to teaching, research and service, he received teaching awards at different levels of academia, namely Willard Smith Distinguished Teaching Award at the departmental level, Rosebush Professorship Award at the university level, and recognized twice by American Political Science Association for Excellence in Teaching and Research. Recognizing his contributions to Political Science focusing mainly on South Asia, the Foreign Affairs Committee of US Congress invited him to testify in a Congressional Hearing (100th Congress) on Democratization of Bangladesh and Afghanistan in 1988. Currently, He has published ten books, twenty book chapters and over 50 scholarly articles in regional and international journals. Well known among his publications are Leadership in the Least Developed Nation: Bangladesh (Syracuse University, 1983), Martial Law to Martial Law: Leadership Crisis in Bangladesh (UPL, 1984), The Third World Charismat: Sheikh Mujib and the Struggle for Freedom (UPL, 1996) and SAARC and the Superpowers (UPL, 1991). In 2010 Dr. Khan has edited a volume of selected papers presented at a conference on Bangladesh at Harvard University, USA, published by UPL. Lexis) </span><span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">The collapse of the ...</span></span>nuclear weapons.

Radical destabilization puts Pakistan’s nukes in the wrong hands- motivates conflict with India, border clashes, terrorist attacks, and insurgency. 
Stephen J. **__Morgan, 07__** (former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, “better another Taliban Afghanistan”, [[http://ezinearticles.com/?Better-Another-Taliban-Afghanistan,-than-a-Taliban-NUCLEAR-Pakistan?&id=475808]]) <span class="UnderlineChar">Fundamentalism is...nuclear pakistan</span>


Extinction in minutes. 
**__Morgan ‘09__** - Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea (Dennis, Futures, November, “World on fire: two scenarios of the destruction of human civilization and possible extinction of the human race,” Science Direct) In a remarkable website on nuclear war, Carol Moore asks the question ‘‘Is Nuclear War Inevitable??’’ [10].4 In Section 1, Moore..nuclear winter.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Central Asia negatively affected by Afghan drugs – causing AIDS </span>**
**<span class="AuthorDateChar">Hill ‘01</span>** <span class="CiteChar">[S. Frederick, Chairman of Central Asia-Caucasus Institute @ Nitze School of Advanced Int’l. Studies @ Johns Hopkins U., Federal Document Clearing House Congressional Testimony, “CENTRAL ASIAN NATIONS AND THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM”, 12-13, L/N] </span><span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 7.5pt; line-height: 115%;">In Afghanistan, the..drug trade</span></span>


<span class="AuthorDateChar">AIDS is a unique issue in Afghanistan because of drugs</span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Peters ’10</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">(journalist of The National, Tom A. Dec 10, 2010 Afghanistan's new crisis: the spread of HIV/Aids </span>[[http://www.thenational.ae/news/worldwide/south-asia/afghanistans-new-crisis-the-spread-of-hiv-aids?pageCount=0]]<span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">)</span></span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">If you ask...shared needles.</span>


Extinction
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Kerns ‘99</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">(Tom professor of philosophy BA, MA, PhD- AIDS and Apocalyptics for Questioning Millennium Madness, </span>[[http://bioethicscourse.info/aidsite/lec-millemad.html]]<span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">)</span></span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The worst threat...reservoir expanding.</span>


<span class="UnderlineChar">**<span style="font-size: 36pt; line-height: 115%;">[S]</span>**cenario 3: Chaos</span>
A. Afghani opium production causes global chaos- turns every neg impact scenario
<span class="AuthorDateChar">BBC News 2009</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;"> [October 21, 2009. Afghan Opium Feuls Global Chaos. </span>[[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/8319249.stm]]<span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">]</span></span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">UN findings say...it believes.</span>


**The CIA in Afghanistan uniquely cause terrorism**
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Dorcak 10</span></span> (Michael, History major, December 28th, 20, “Invisible Roles of CIA Spies in Afghanistan” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://socyberty.com/history/invisible-role-of-cia-spies-in-afghanistan/]]</span>)
<span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">These efforts were...in these efforts.</span></span>


**Terrorism results in a nuclear first strike and global nuclear war.**
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Ayson ‘10(</span><span class="CiteChar">Robert Ayson, Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, 2010 (“After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, July, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via InformaWorld)</span><span class="UnderlineChar">But these two nuclear...unwilling to provide.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 36pt; line-height: 115%;">[P]</span>****<span style="font-size: 22pt; line-height: 115%;">lan Text: The United States Federal Government should reduce its police presence in Afghanistan by removing all Central Intelligence Agency Presence in Afghanistan. </span>**


**<span style="font-size: 36pt; line-height: 115%;">[C]</span>**ontention 4: Solvency

Ending CIA presence is uniquely key to solving drug trade
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Chossudovsky, 05</span> <span class="CiteChar">(Michel economist and professor of economics at the University of Ottawa, May 5, 20 “The Spoils of War: Afghanistan’s Multibillion Dollar Drug Trade”, Global Research,)</span> <span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">In the wake...3400 tons.</span></span>



The CIA withdrawal is the only way to stop drug trade
<span class="AuthorDateChar">[[http://swampland.blogs.time.com/author/jklein1271/|Klein]]</span><span class="AuthorDateChar"> ‘10</span> <span class="CiteChar">(Joe Klein is TIME's political columnist and author of six books, most recently Politics Lost. His weekly TIME column, "In the Arena," covers national and international affairs. In 2004 he won the National Headliner Award for best magazine column, August 26, 2010 “Today and Tomorrow in Afghanistan” Time Magazine, </span>[[http://swampland.blogs.time.com/2010/08/26/today-and-tomorrow-in-afghanistan/]]<span class="CiteChar">)</span> <span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Continuing their run of...US mission now.</span></span>


Obama needs to change his military strategy within Afghanistan in order to be able to solve terrorism.
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Walt ‘10</span> <span class="CiteChar">(Stephen M, January 8, 20. “On Our Terrorism Problem”, Foreign Policy, </span>[[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/01/08/on_our_%20terrorism_problem|http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/01/08/on_our_ terrorism_problem]]<span class="CiteChar">) </span><span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Declaring that...evidence of that.</span></span>


== == 
==Fake 1AC== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Contention 1: The War On Terror</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The 9/11 attacks created a new face, the creation of the US’s decalaration of an unending War on Terror, a war that blends war and politics into one, creating an endless state of exception in which the sovereign is free to militarize, securitize, and exterminate those in the “inferior Middle East” and violently replace a shadowy threat with what we call a democracy.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Newman and Levine 06** <span class="cite"><span style="line-height: 115%;">(Saul, teaches Politics at Goldsmiths College, University of London, and is a Research Fellow in the Department of Political Science at the University of Western Australia, and Michael, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Western Australia. He has taught at the University of Pennsylvania, Swarthmore College, Baruch College (City University of New York), the University of Virginia, and in Moscow as a Fulbright Fellow, “War, politics and race: reflections on violence in the 'war on terror'”,)</span></span></span>

<span class="underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">When, in the weeks following <span style="background-attachment: scroll;">the <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: border-box; background-image: none; background-origin: padding-box; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat; background-size: auto auto;">September 11</span> attacks, …. <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: border-box; background-image: none; background-origin: padding-box; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat; background-size: auto auto;">undermine the successful spread of</span> liberal <span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: border-box; background-image: none; background-origin: padding-box; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat; background-size: auto auto;">democracy</span> in the long term.</span></span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"><span class="underline0">This war on terror did not start from an invasion, but more so our hearts- </span><span style="line-height: 115%;">the screams of a people threatened by men flying planes into buildings resulted in this war. Therefore the people of America united as one, and in demand to end this threat against the war, we invaded. </span>This debate provides us with an opportunity to investigate these demands and the war machine that they create. The war machine is not inherently evil; it is a coalescing of desires into one central goal. It is only when the State appropriates the war machine and makes its goal into peace, as it did in Vietnam and is doing in the Middle East, that total war can occur and genocide can become possible. Even though we have begun to withdraw troops, our peacekeeping mission will continue and become a war against any uncertainties – just as it became necessary to destroy Ben Tre in order to save it, so shall it become necessary to ignite the world in nuclear flames to end the threat of terrorism.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**Buchanan 05** <span style="line-height: 115%;">(Ian holds the foundation Chair of Communication and Cultural Studies at Charles Darwin University, “War in the age of intelligent machines and unintelligent government,” Australian Humanities Review Issue 36, July 2005, dml)</span> </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> <span style="line-height: 115%;">This, according to Deleuze and Guattari… …</span>__<span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: border-box; background-image: none; background-origin: padding-box; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat; background-size: auto auto; line-height: 115%;">it enters its most terrifying phase.</span>__</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">This construct of ‘terrorism’ is cloaked in the language that is in response to fear, twisting decision calculus with fantastic scenarios for annihilation at the hands of the “terrorists” and deferring attention from far greater systemic problems while normalizing and justifying the war.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"><span class="tagchar2">**Jackson 05**</span> <span class="cite">(Richard, Lecturer in Politics – U. Manchester, 49th Parallel, “Language Power and Politics: Critical Discourse Analysis and the War on Terrorism”, January, </span>[[http://www.49thparallel.bham.ac.uk/back/issue15/jackson1.htm]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> Writing Threat and Danger <span class="underline0">Another ubiquitous feature ……co-constitutive of the practice of counter-terrorism.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The discourse surrounding this “war” culminates in and normalizes unimaginable violence based on a politics that justifies war by us, the victims of the world – millions are written off as collateral damage as we lose the frame of reference to voice doubts to the atrocities, and are silenced by the national security state writing off all dissenters as “siding with the terrorists” – we must stand outside of the rhetoric, discourse, and cycles of violence muddled up in the language of “Terror”</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> <span class="tagchar2">**Jackson 05**</span> <span class="cite">(Richard, Lecturer in Politics – U. Manchester, 49th Parallel, “Language Power and Politics: Critical Discourse Analysis and the War on Terrorism”, January, [[http://www.49thparallel.bham.ac.uk/back/issue15/jackson1.htm]]</span>//)//</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Applying a ‘critical’ perspective …..<span class="underline0"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: border-box; background-image: none; background-origin: padding-box; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat; background-size: auto auto;"> interrogate the exercise of power masquerading as the ‘war on terrorism’</span></span><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: border-box; background-image: none; background-origin: padding-box; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat; background-size: auto auto;">.</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Being creators of this war on terror, we become the militaristic giants as it infects the debate sphere, the public becomes indoctrinated with a violent knowledge production that pervades us all- we are a pedagogical re-opening of our sphere and an individual protest movement that reclaims politics</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> **Giroux 08** <span class="cite">(Henry, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada, “Against the Militarized Academy”, [[http://www.truth-out.org/112008J]]</span>)</span>

<span class="underline0" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"><span style="background-attachment: scroll; background-clip: border-box; background-image: none; background-origin: padding-box; background-position: 0% 0%; background-repeat: repeat; background-size: auto auto;">In a post-9/11 world, with its all-embracing war on terror …..</span> relations of economic, political, cultural and social democracy and the desire to sustain human life.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> While the War on Terror may exist globally, this is more the ideological construction of what the administration would like us to believe- our localized and specific resistance to the largest forms can create change</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> **Adelman 09** <span class="cite">(Rebecca, Department of Comparative Studies, The Ohio State University, “The Shadow Rules of Engagement: Visual Practices, Citizen-Subjectivity, and America’s Global War on Terror” pg 22-24) </span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">On September 18, 2001, Congress issued …..<span class="underline0"> and I study it accordingly</span>.</span>

Contention 2: Interpretational Flaw
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">And teams this year interpret the resolution completely wrong, they reduce presence in act of preventing these impacts that they really dont prevent or change, but what they fail to realize is that the resolution intended for us to look into the situation and look into the way that these troops are in and look into the histories and complexities of the countries these scenarios have started from and that is exactly what we’re doing. We’ve concluded that this entire scenario is just the aftermath of the drive to securitize our militaristic giant empire we’ve create to keep our military industrial complex running. And since we’ve interpreted the resolution as a whole and distinguished the true intentions of it, this preempts us from any topicality argumentation or any arguments that pertain to a specific part of the resolution because we look past the individual words of this resolution and interpret the true and correct interpretation and that outweighs any argumentation pertaining to the resolution.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"><span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="line-height: 115%;">**Adams**</span></span> **<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="line-height: 115%;">Wilkins </span></span>**, <span class="CiteChar"><span style="line-height: 115%;">Nancy </span></span><span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="line-height: 115%;">and </span></span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="line-height: 115%;">Tim debaters at Trinity University 19</span></span>**<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="line-height: 115%;">87</span></span>** <span class="CiteChar"><span style="line-height: 115%;">(“The role of justification in topic analysis”) </span></span><span class="CardChar"><span style="line-height: 115%;">Contemporary Argumentation & Debate, Volume 8</span></span></span>
<span class="CardChar" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"><span style="line-height: 115%;">The benefits…through obsecurity</span></span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Plan Text: The United States Federal Government should immediately eliminate all military and police presence/influence in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Kuwait. </span>

Contention 3: The Solution

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 115%;">We need a change in the way that desire is invested; in the way collectives are formed, before any change can occur. Post neg ballot desire and mindsets do not change, at best they are only papered over with a new name and a new regime. A failure to focus on desire of the individual, and the repressions of those desires, makes their social change impossible and renders their roadmap for change not only futile but also counterproductive.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> <span class="cite">**Deleuze and Guattari 72**</span>, Anti-Oedipus, 347-8 </span>

<span class="underline" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Not only can the libidinal investment… …never takes the place of a machine of desire.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">And by interpreting the true intentions of the resolution, we challenge the structure of the War on Terror and recognize it as a fantasy monster established only to give us something to annihilate, the affirmative distinguishes the biggest symbolic vehicle of the current politics of fear and provides the prospect of a new future and world not defined by endless war</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> **Chernus 06** (Ira, Professor of religious stories at the University of Colarado at Boulder, also served as codirector of Peace and Conflict Studies Program, author of multiple books on American culture and national security, “Monsters to Destroy: The Neoconservative War on Terror and Sin”, Paradigm Publishers, pg 11-13)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">The twin towers of the World Trade Center are gone, but the national insecurity state still stands....the difference between the two.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> And no counterplans, the net benefit would be based on the war on terror, it all just links back. This entire rhetoric of their impacts are just a threat perceived self created prophecy we try to defeat through our militaristic giant developed out of the drive for securitized empire. Reject any impacts the negative claims, even if they go for any alternative framework they still must prove alternative causes through the root of the situation, which the affirmative does from the beginning. No negative claims can be given value until provided the literature base of the root situation. </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">**<span class="AuthorDateChar">Hardt & Negri ‘00</span>** <span class="CiteChar">[Lit professor @ Duke] [philosopher, writer], Micheal, Antonio, Empire, Harvard University Press, p. 316 (BLUEUN2088)</span></span>
<span class="CiteChar" style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Although it was...humiliating peace.</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;">Finally, Our speech act bears revolutionary potential and has the means to further action. Confining our language through the parameters of pre-determined political form destroys this potential.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> **Goddard 06** (July 6th, 2006: The Encounter between Guattari and Berandi and the Post – Modern Era “Felix and Alice in Wonderland”; [[http://www.generation-online.org/p/fpbifo1.htm]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 14px;"> What this type... societal change —</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif; font-size: 15px;">And this is the only way to gain real world education </span>
<span style="font-size: 14px;">**<span class="cite">McGee</span> '97** </span>Brian R. Assistant Professor in the Department of Communication Studies at Texas Tech University, <span class="cite">and</span> David <span class="cite">Romanelli</span>, Instructor and Director of Debate in the Department of Communication at Loyola University-Chicago, <span class="cite">1997</span> (“Policy Debate as Fiction: In Defense of Utopian Fiat,” //Contemporary Argumentation & Debate//, Volume 18, p. 27)


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Old Old 1AC</span>== 

<span style="tab-stops: 1.0in;">Contention 1: Status Quo</span>
The mission in Iraq may have been declared “over” but US military presence was only redefined and will remain indefinitely.
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Aneja 9/4/10</span></span>, Atul Aneja, The Hindu, “How real is the U.S. withdrawal from Iraq?”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">[[http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/lead/article611950.ece?homepage=true]]</span>)

<span class="smalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Under cover of darkness, hundreds … later, firmly rejected the view.</span></span>

<span class="TagChar">Iraq is becoming the center of violence against women, kidnapping, prostitution, and trafficking in Middle East due to US occupation.</span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Sott 2010</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(</span></span><span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">net Sat, 24 Apr 22:08</span> </span><span style="font-size: 8pt; font-weight: normal;">BADAMS)</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">Adel, Shaymaa, "7 million Iraqis exist below poverty line," Azzaman, 4/6/10 AK News, "Iraqi Health: Gangs of thieves abducting children and False Doctor Arrested," 2/2/10 Bakri, Nada, "In Iraq, battling an internal bane," //Washington Post,// 10/22/09 Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, And Labor, "2009 Human Rights Report: Iraq," U.S. State Department, 3/11/10 Debat, Alexis, "Vivisecting the Jihad: Part Two," National Interest, October 2004 Department of Defense, "Measuring Stability and Security in Iraq, December 2009" 2/15/10 Gunter, Frank, "Liberate Iraq's Economy," //New York Times,// 11/16/09 Miller, Deborah, "Iraqis face new threat: brutal violence," //Cleveland Plain Dealer,// 9/21/09 Paley, Amit, "Iraqis Joining Insurgency Less for Cause Than Cash," //Washington// </span>  //<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Post,</span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> 11/20/07 Samuels, Lennox, "Al Qaeda Nostra," //Newsweek,// 5/21/08 Schmitt, Eric and Shanker, Thom, "Estimates by U.S. See More Rebels With More Funds," //New York Times,// 10/22/04 Criminals, Militias, And Insurgents: Organized Crime In Iraq, Strategic Studies Institute, June 2009 </span>
<span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Many criminals joine...emirates, turkey, iran </span></span>


<span style="font-size: 18pt;">Therefore the plan: The United States Federal Government should remove all military presence from Iraq. Enforcement is guaranteed through normal means. We reserve the right to clarify. </span>


**<span style="line-height: 115%;">Contention 2: Violence Against Women</span>**
War causes sexual violence and promotes the subjugation of women. 
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Eaton 04</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">[Shana JD Georgetown University Law Center 35 Geo. J. Int'l L. 873 Summer lexis]</span></span>
<span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">While</span></span> __sexual violence...heart of the conflicts__


The Iraqi War restricts women’s freedom and suppresses their basic human rights
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Abeyesekera ’03</span></span> (Sunila Abeyesekera, director of Inform, a Sri Lankan human rights organization 02-03
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">http://www.awid.org/eng/Issues-and-Analysis/Library/A-Women-s-Human-Rights-Perspective-on-War-and-Conflict)</span>
<span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">At the same time..wars and conflict</span></span>


<span style="line-height: 115%;">We have Several Internals:</span>
1. American and American-trained Soldiers beat and rape the women of Iraq in detainment centers.
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">MHRI 2005</span></span> Baghdad. BADAMS The Monitoring Network for Human Rights (MHRI), which consists of more than 20 Iraqi organizations for Human Rights, made this report about the crimes and continuous violations of human rights in Iraq. 
<span class="UnderlineChar">The rape of...of the family</span>


<span class="SourceBold"><span style="line-height: 115%;">US Presence causes a </span>very <span style="line-height: 115%;">sharp rise in the number of abductions</span></span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Rahman and Jamail ‘10</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">(By Abdu Dahr – BAGHDAD) 3-15 BADAMS)</span></span>
<span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">Sabria tells IPS that the...spring 2006.</span></span>


The Abductees go through brutal treatment
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Jamail ‘06</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">(By Dahr Ali al-Fadhily BAGHDAD, Dec. 11, (IPS) BADAMS)</span></span>
__Women face increase...of there homes.__


Women are less secure and free following the US-led invasion.
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Rahman and Jamail ‘10</span> <span class="CardChar">(</span>By Abdu <span class="SourceBold"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">– </span></span>BAGHDAD 3-15 BADAMS)
<span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Women miss Hussein...in iraq says</span></span>


The Iraqi War destroys women’s rights due to sexual violence.
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Marshall ‘04</span></span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Lucinda Marshall Founder of the Feminist Peace Network, Feminist Writer and Activist, 12-18-04 “Unacceptable: The Impact of War on Women and Children” http://www.commondreams.org/views04/1219-26.htm)</span></span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">Women and children..service the troops.</span>


Violence against women is one of the four leading causes of death and has untold impacts.
<span class="SourceBold">__Lederer 05__</span><span class="AuthorDateChar">,</span> <span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Edith M. Lederer, Associated Press, Violence and discrimination against women is a major cause of death Ranks with disease, hunger and war, study says., 11/18/2005, </span>[[http://www.religiousconsultation.org/News_Tracker/violence_and_discrimination_vs_women_major_death_cause.htm]]</span>
<span class="UnderlinedCard"><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">Violence against wome...violence, winker said.</span></span>


This violence against women is a violation of human rights and must be rejected in every instance
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">VINOC 10</span></span>, Violence is not our culture, Goals, Messages, and Strategies The ultimate goal of the Campaign is to end all forms of culturally-justified violence against women and girls., 2010, http://www.stop-killing.org/node/2
<span class="smalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Culturally-justified</span></span> <span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">violenc...violence against women.</span></span>


<span style="tab-stops: 1.0in;">**Contention 3: Solvency** </span>
The US has ignored its duty to prevent violence against women because the US is now the root cause of the violence.
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Susskind 07</span></span> (communications director of MADRE, an international women's human rights organization March 8, 2007 Iraq's Other War: Violence Against Women Under US Occupation Yifat http://www.antiwar.com/orig/susskind.php?articleid=10638)
<span class="smalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Houzan is hardly alone in this regard...sunni based insurgency</span></span>


Therefore reduction of US troops in Iraq will eliminate the violence against women, effectually the sooner we take action, the more lives we save. 
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">Hassan</span></span><span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">20</span></span><span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 115%;">05</span></span>. Ghali, contributor to Global Research. “How the US Erase Women’s Rights in Iraq.” October 7, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=1054]]</span>) 
<span class="smalltextChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Indeed, Western mainstream...and human rights.</span></span>


<span style="tab-stops: 1.0in;">**Contention 4: Framework** </span>
<span class="TagChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. The impacts claimed in policy debate have nothing to do with reality. Policy debaters read disads with incredulous internal links and kritik debaters replace instrumentally effective action with ideological mystification. These impacts have been supposedly on the brink every debate, yet Adopting a standpoint based definition of reality centered in empirically provable lived experiences is the only way to break out of the illusory fantasies of the left and the hysterical threat mongering of the right.</span></span>
<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Cloud ‘06</span></span> (Professor of Communication Studies at Texas (Dana L., “The Matrix and Critical Theory’s Desertion of the Real,” Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies, Vol. 3, No. 4, December 2006, pp. 329Á354, December 2006, Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies) MP
<span class="CardtextChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">This illusory worl...structuralism and relativism</span></span>


Mini-max arguments are flawed – they overemphasize pessimism, they misinterpret probability, they place too much value on Novelty, and they undemocratically distribute values.
David<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> Berube</span></span>, Associate Professor of Speech Communication at the University of South Carolina,<span class="AuthorDateChar"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;"> 2000</span></span> [Director of Debate “Debunking Mini-max Reasoning: The Limits Of Extended Causal Chains In Contest Debating,” Contemporary Argumentation and Debate, Volume 21, Available Online at http://www.cedadebate.o rg/CAD/2000_berube.pdf, Accessed 04-05-2008, p. 64-69]
Vohra warned: __"There...killing one person.__


Prioritizing Uniqueness as an absolute take out is essential to avoid becoming enslaved to infinite risk
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Herbeck ‘92</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">(</span></span><span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">Dale </span></span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">Professor of Communication at Boston College, 1992 [Director of the Fulton Debating Society at Boston College, “The Use and Abuse of Risk Analysis in Policy Debate,” Paper Presented at the 78th Annual Meeting of the Speech Communication Association (Chicago, IL), October 29th-November 1st, Available Online via ERIC Number ED354559, p. 10-12]</span></span>
Third, we must __not...to the disadvantage.__


Therefore our framework is to alternate the evaluation of policy debate impacts, and evaluate them in a manner that focuses on probability and linear systemic impacts in the status quo – this mirrors the real world and is the most precise method, any guarantee of solving problems in the status quo outweigh impacts based on predictability.
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Hansson, 2006</span>; <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">professor in philosophy at the Royal Institute of Technology (Sven Ove; May 23, 2006; “The Epistemology of Technological Risk”; http://scholar.lib.vt.edu/ejournals/SPT/v9n2/hansson.html#bondi)</span></span>
Beginning in the late... that event itself.




<span class="CardtextChar"><span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 115%;">. </span></span>

















=Negative= 
==Cap Berkeley 1NC== 
[[media type="youtube" key="bURgTLHryrg?rel=0" height="390" width="480"]]

==ABL DA== 

Congress is cutting modernization efforts now.
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Brannen 2010 </span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">(Kate Brannen, staff writer for Defense News, 12 May 2010, “House Panel Whacks US Army Modernization Effort”, Defense News, http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=4622735)</span></span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">House authorizers remain...to cancel.</span>

He Cut Most the Money – Whats Left Confines it to Procurement Hell
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">James</span></span> <span class="AuthorDateChar">Carafano,</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">senior research fellow for national security at The Heritage Foundation, 2/22/</span></span><span class="AuthorDateChar">10</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">[James Carafano: Dumping Airborne Laser leaves America vulnerable, </span>[[http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/columns/Dumping-Airborne-Laser-leaves-America-vulnerable-84912847.html]]<span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">]</span></span>
<span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">A short-range ballistic..science experiment</span></span>

Land Troop Withdrawal Ensures a Shift Towards Advanced Military Modernization
<span class="AuthorDateChar">Siriwardane</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">, Venuri, reporter, 20</span></span><span class="AuthorDateChar">10</span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">, Inc. Magazine, The Business of Iraq, </span>[[http://www.inc.com/inc5000/2008/articles/iraq.html]]</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">[[http://www.inc.com/topic/Steve+Sliwa|Steve Sliwa]], CE..more then others</span>

Means ABL funding gets restored – lobbies ensure revival.
[[#_Toc141503410]][[#_Toc267643006]]<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">5/9/</span></span><span class="AuthorDateChar">07</span> <span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">(ABL Team Lobbying Lawmakers For Full Funding, http://www.aviationweek.com/aw/generic/story_generic.jsp?channel=aerospacedaily&id=news/ABL050907.xml&headline=ABL%20Team%20Lobbying%20Lawmakers%20For%20Full%20Funding)</span></span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">The U.S. Missile..reporters May 8th.</span>

Space Weaponization will cause Global War – it Outweighs Risk of Nuclear War.
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">Dr. Gordon R.</span></span> <span class="AuthorDateChar">Mitchell</span> <span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">et. al. Assoc Prof of Communication, Teaching Fellows in Communication Dept – U Pitt,</span></span> ‘<span class="AuthorDateChar">01 </span><span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">[“Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads” ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Dfence, No. 6. </span>[[@http://www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6_paper.html|www.isisuk.demon.co.uk/0811/isis/uk/bmd/no6_paper.html]]<span style="font-size: 9pt; line-height: 115%;">]</span></span>
<span class="CardChar"><span style="font-size: 8pt; line-height: 115%;">A buildup of space...conflict ever seen</span></span>

==<span class="CardChar" style="font-size: 14pt; line-height: 115%;">Appeasement DA</span>== 
Obama is barely holding onto our forward presence – troop withdrawal triggers a catastrophic loss of confidence
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guardiano 10</span></span> (John R., writer and analyst for the American Spectator, “Obama's Defense Budget”, February 4, [[http://spectator.org/archives/2010/02/04/obamas-defense-budget]])
Historical perspective an...admits this.

SPEC LINK HERE:

Global war
<span class="CiteChar"><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Johnson & Krulak 9</span></span> (Admiral Jay L. and General Charles C. - Chief of Naval Operations & Commandant of the Marine Corps, “Forward presence essential to American interests,” United States Navy, August 17, [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/navy_legacy_hr.asp?id=274]])
Also this morning...sometimes fiery times.


==Egypt DA== 
<span style="tab-stops: 63.75pt;">**US diplomacy has been launched throughout the Middle East to deal with the transition of power to the military and future transition to democracy. Diplomacy is tentative requiring focused and persistent efforts to maintain diplomatic contact. Current efforts will succeed.**</span>
**CNN – ‘11** (Elise Labott and Barbara Starr, CNN Reporters; “U.S. seeks diplomatic clarity in Mideast”; February 12, 2011; [[http://www.cnn.com/2011/POLITICS/02/12/us.mubarak/index.html?eref=rss_politics&utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+rss%2Fcnn_allpolitics+%28RSS%3A+Politics%29]])

Washington (CNN) -- __The Obama...this weekend__

**Decreasing military deployments kills diplomatic influence.**
**Holmes, 2009**
[Kim, Ph.d., VP for Foreign and Defense Policy Studies and Director of the David Institute for International Studies at the Heritage Foundation, 6-1, “Sustaining American Leadership with Military Power”, [[http://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2009/pdf/sr0052.pdf]]] MGM

__The consequence...future support.__

**Diplomatic capital is finite – each new issue trades off with existing issues**
**Anderson & Grewell – 01** (Terry L. Anderson is executive director of Political Economy Research Center ("PERC")The Center for Free Market Environmentalism, Bozeman, Montana, and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University. J. Bishop Grewell is a research associate with PERC. Fall, 2001 2 Chi. J. Int'l L. 427)
__Foreign policy ...foreign economies.__

**US influence over the Egyptian military is critical to ensure there is enough time for liberal political groups to organize to prevent a takeover by the Muslim Brotherhood in elections. Quick elections would result in a radical Egypt.**
**Dorell – 2/14** (Oren Dorell, Reporter at USA TODAY; “Ideology shadows fight to rule the new Egypt”; 2/14/2011; [[http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2011-02-14-1Aegypt14_CV_N.htm]])
__Leaders of political...mobilize more.__

**Egypt instability threatens Middle East instability.**
**The Australian – 2/4** (“High stakes in the square”, February 04, 2011, [[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/high-stakes-in-the-square/story-e6frg71x-1225999765488]])

__EGYPT'S transition..cannot be ignored.__

==Other args== 
other stuff we run on neg and im too lazy to put up (sorry Andrew):
HeiddEmpire K
Security K
Velvet Glove K
Iran DA
Reverse Spending DA
China-Jap DA
Lots of T- blocking them out wont help
Lots of Theory- i can already tell u ill go for it in the 2AR if i think u suck, and i will win on it no matter what. unless thrs a retard judge of course..


Any questions:
Aff- Haque, [[mailto:thepiyal@live.com|thepiyal@live.com]]
Neg- Michael, [[mailto:mfj@nvbell.net|mfj@nvbell.net]]